WOOD RIVER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-6 Supplement,
Local Legislation current through Ord. 578, passed 9-6-2022
State Legislation through 2006
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This Municipal Code of Wood River, Nebraska, 1975, contains all the
ordinances of the Municipality of a general nature. Certain ordinances which
are continued in force after this codification for the purpose of rights
acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities incurred, and actions
there for have been omitted from this publication.
   A Table of Contents appears after this page, and a complete index to the
subject matter included in the general chapters and sections herein will be
found at the end of this volume. Convenient cross-references to the Statutes of
Nebraska indicate the source of legislative power and supplement the text.
   The text of the Wood River Municipal Code, 1975, is arranged in the same
manner as the Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The number preceding the hyphen is
the chapter number; immediately following the hyphen is the article number; and
following that is the section number. Each section number is complete within
itself indicating the number of the chapter, article, and section.
CITY OFFICERS
of
WOOD RIVER, NEBRASKA
2023
*****
                  
Ashley Manning    Clerk
Christina Wemhoff Treasurer
Drew Graham       Attorney
Brent Gascho      Utility Director
                  
*****
                  
CITY COUNCIL
                  
Greg Cramer, Mayor
Eric Nielsen, President
James Thompson
Mike Rennau
Blanca Rodriguez
Heather Rotter
                  
*****
 
ORDINANCE. NO. 137
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE of the CITY OF WOOD RIVER,
NEBRASKA
   An ordinance of the City of Wood River, Nebraska, codifying the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF WOOD RIVER, NEBRASKA.
   Section 1. Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of Wood
River, Nebraska, are hereby codified into eleven chapters and the articles and
sections thereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of this
Municipality.
   Section 2. Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed:
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
   1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys,
   2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
   4.   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise, or license to
persons, firms, or corporations.
   5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
   7.   Real Estate Transactions.
   8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
   Section 3. Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. 137 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof. Such ordinances above
repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the passage, approval
and publication of this general codification ordinance for the purpose of all
rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and actions therefor.
   Section 4. Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters,
articles, and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to
be the chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance.
All ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with 138.
   Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
   Section 6. Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
($100.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and
punished as though fie were the principal offender.
   Section 7. General Definitions:
   1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include
natural persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations Of whatever character.
   2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender
may apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing
the plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All
words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural
number.
   3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter, Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. 137. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
   4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product
at wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell
the said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to
consumers.
   5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality
whenever used in this code mean the City of Wood River, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
   6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
   7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   8.   Municipal Police, Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   Section 8. Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
   Section 9. Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience tinder
the General Codification Ordinance No. 137, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
   Section 10. Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as they may
see fit. (Ref 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
   Section 11. When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
Passed and approved September 2nd, 1975.
                                          Don Graper
                                          Mayor
John Markussen
Municipal Clerk
(SEAL)
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Article
      
1.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
2.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
3.   BONDS AND OATH
      
4.   CORPORATE SEAL
      
5.   MEETINGS
      
6.   ORDINANCES
      
7.   ELECTIONS
      
8.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
9.   COMPENSATION
      
10.   SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-101 CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the Municipality shall have the general, and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
Municipality. He shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and may
vote when his vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided on any
pending matter, legislation, or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the
purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His signature
must appear on the Municipal Clerk's minutes of all meetings, and he must sign
all resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for the payment of money
when ordered by the City Council; Provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor
may be passed over his veto by a two-thirds (2/3) vote by the members of the
City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, and
returns it to the Council with his objections in writing at the next regular
Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his signature. He shall
from time to time communicate to the Council such information and
recommendations as, in his opinion, may improve the Municipality. He may
require at reasonable intervals any Municipal official to exhibit his accounts
and make reports to the Council on any subject pertaining to his office. He
shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the
ordinances of the Municipality. He may remove at any time an appointed police
officer of the Municipality. His territorial authority shall extend over all
places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the Municipality for
the enforcement of any health ordinance, and one half (1/2) mile in all matters
vested in him except taxation. He shall also have such other duties as the City
Council may by resolution confer upon him, or in any other matters which the
laws of the State of Nebraska repose in him. He shall be elected at the
Municipal Election, and shall serve a four (4) year term of office. Any
candidate for Mayor must have resided within the Municipality for forty (40)
days prior to filing for the said office and must in addition be a qualified
taxpayer. (Ref. 17-110 thru 17-117 RS Neb.)
§ 1-102 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§ 1-103 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four (4)
year term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the Municipal
Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-104 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Councilmembers of this Municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-
elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the Municipality shall be represented by at least two (2) Councilmembers. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his election an actual
resident of the ward for which he is qualified and should any City
Councilmember move from the ward from which he was elected, his office shall
thereby become vacant. (Ref. 17-104 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 143, 2/3/76)
§ 1-105 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   Vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the mayor and council
for the balance of the unexpired term except as provided in this Section.
Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the
incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the council at a regular or
special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting.
   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by causing
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city or by
posting in three (3) public places in the city the office vacated and the
length of the unexpired term.
   The Mayor shall within four (4) weeks after the regular meeting at which
such notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the City Council at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term.
   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
City Council during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council the vacancy shall be
filled. If a majority vote is not reached the nomination shall be rejected and
the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations
until the vacancy is filled.
   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the City
Council.
   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each nominee.
   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City office as
provided above in this Section, call a special Municipal Election to fill such
vacancy.
   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, there shall be a special Municipal Election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies. (Ref. 32-4,152, 32-1406 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 257, 2/19/85; 335, 1/22/91)
§ 1-105.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY DUE TO UN-EXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in section 32-560 RS Neb. and any
other reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a
vacancy on the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than
five (5) consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members. (Ref. 19-3101 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six (6) consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one (1) or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one (1) or more of the member’s absences by a majority
vote at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Ord. No. 462, 10/21/03)
§ 1-106 ELECTED OFFICIALS; MAYOR; VACANCY.
   When-ever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the office
of Mayor until such vacancy is filled or such disability is removed, or in case
of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from assuming
office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the term, but
such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the Council
shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office of
Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the
Council which shall be filled as provided in Section 1-105. (Ref. 17-107, 17-
115 RS Neb.)
§ 1-107 ELECTED OFFICIALS; RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (1)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other elective or
appointive office or employment with the City.
   (2)   For purposes of this section, (a) elective office means any office
which has candidates nominated or elected at the time of a statewide primary
election, any office which has candidates nominated at the time of a statewide
primary election and elected at the time of a statewide general election, any
office which has candidates elected at the time of a statewide general
election, any office which has candidates nominated or elected at a city or
village election, and any office created by an act of the Legislature which has
candidates elected at an election and includes an office which is filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body created
by an act of the Legislature and (b) high elective office means a member of the
Legislature, an elective office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or
Article VII, section 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska, or a county,
city, or school district elective office.
   (3)   No candidate for member of the Legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or 10, of
the Constitution of Nebraska shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to
petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political
party or by party convention, caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be
a declared write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at
the same election except for the position of delegate to a county, state, or
national political party convention. No candidate for any other high elective
office shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a
candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by party convention,
caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be declared a write- in candidate
for more than one high elective office to be filled at the same election.
   (4)   Except as provided in subsection (5) or (7) of this section, no person
shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective
office for the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds
another elective office.
   (5)   No person serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or
10, of the Constitution of Nebraska shall simultaneously serve in any other
elective office, except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another
elective office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body.
   (6)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the Legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII,
section 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska assumes another elective
office, except an elective office filled at an election held in conjunction
with the annual meeting of a public body, the office first held by the
incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (7)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (8)   Notwithstanding subsections (5) through (7) of this section, any
person holding more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997,
shall be entitled to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was
elected or appointed. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604 RS Neb.)  (Ord.
No. 334, 1/22/91) (Amended by Ord. No. 438, 11/7/00)
ARTICLE 2. APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-201 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor, by, and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by, and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number of regular policemen,
and other officials as may be necessary, and may establish a police reserve
force as provided by law. All police officers, and other appointed officials
shall be subject to removal at any time by the Mayor. (Ref. 81-1438 thru 81-
1446 RS Neb.)
§ 1-202 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Governing Body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The city manager/
administrator in a city under the city manager/administrator plan of government
as provided by law may in his or her discretion combine and merge any elective
or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except mayor and council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Ref. 17-
108.02 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 258, 2/19/85; 336, 1/22/91)
§ 1-203 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the Governing
Body by Section 1-202.
   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate,
and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess
of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
§ 1-204 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the Governing Body, and
keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He shall keep a record
of all outstanding bonds against the Municipality and when any bonds are sold,
purchased, paid, or cancelled, said record shall show the fact. He shall make,
at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the Municipality
transacted through his office for the year. That record shall describe
particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the terms of the
sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He shall file all official
bonds after the same shall have been properly executed, and approved. He shall
make the proper certificate of passage which shall be attached to original
copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted by the Governing Body.
   The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the Municipal
ordinances. He shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money except
where some other Municipal officer is specifically charged with that duty. He
shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the Municipality, and the
purpose for which they have been issued.
   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the Municipality kept, and preserved in his office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the Municipality as may be entitled to
the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He shall
keep all the records of his office, including a record of all licenses issued
by him in a blank book with a proper index. He shall include as part of his
records all petitions under which the Governing Body shall order public work to
be done at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with
references to all resolutions, and ordinances relating to the same. He shall
endorse the date, and hour of filing upon every paper, or document so filed in
his office. All such filings made by him shall be properly docketed. Included
in his records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other
documents incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner
convenient for reference. He shall keep, and preserve the proceedings of the
Governing Body in two (2) separate, and distinct record books. The Minute
Records shall contain a record of all the miscellaneous, and informal doings of
the Governing Body. The Minute Record shall not include the passage, and
approval of ordinances except such resolutions incorporating by reference the
Ordinance Record into the Minute Record. The Ordinance Record shall contain the
formal proceedings of the Governing Body in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing, posting, and certifying of ordinances. After the formalities for
the legal enactment of an ordinance have been completed, the Municipal Clerk
shall record, and spread at large in the Ordinance Record his ordinance minutes
on printed forms. In all cases hereafter where single ordinances are introduced
for the consideration of the Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall cause to
be introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the
Ordinance Record into the Minute Record. He shall keep an accurate, and
complete account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and
attest all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund
from which the same is payable. At the end of each month, he shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official, or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his charge to the Mayor for his signature. He shall also deliver to
officers, employees, and committees all resolutions, and communications which
are directed at said officers, employees, or committees. With the seal of the
Municipality, he shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to all ordinances,
deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the
Governing Body. Within thirty (30) days after any meeting of the Governing
Body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and publish the official proceedings
of the Governing Body in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality, and which was duly designated as such by the Governing Body. Said
publication shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall
also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and
the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the names of all employees and their current annual, monthly, or hourly
salaries shall be published and any changes in salaries or the hiring of new
employees during the calendar quarter preceding the months of October, January,
and April shall be published during the months of November, February, and May;
Provided, the charge for such publication shall not exceed the rates provided
by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said publication shall be charged
against the General Fund. He shall then keep in a book with a proper index,
copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the Municipal
Clerk by order of the Governing Body, or under the ordinances of the
Municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer's affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk's certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He shall receive the claims of any
person against the Municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his agent, or attorney by letter within five (5) days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his office as set by resolution of the Governing Body. He shall
destroy Municipal records under the direction of the State Records Board
pursuant to Sections 84-1201 thru 84-1220; Provided, the Governing Body shall
not have the authority to destroy the Minutes of the Municipal Clerk, the
permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other records classified as
permanent by the State Records Board. (Ref. 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201
thru 84-1220, 84-712 RS Neb.)
§ 1-205 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the Municipality. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
those receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Municipal Treasurer shall,
at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account
to the City Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date
of the account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany these accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Municipal Treasurer fails to render
his or her account within twenty (20) days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the City Council, the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the trustees may use this failure as cause to remove the treasurer
from office. (Ref. 17-606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the Municipal Treasurer shall be paid in the
order of their presentation therefor. (Ref. 77-2201 RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Municipal Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Section 77-2202 RS Neb.
      (3)   The Municipal Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums
which shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the
source from which those funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and
columns, show the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and
whether the same was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer
shall deliver one (1) of the duplicates to the person making the payment and
retain the other in his or her office. (Ref. 77-2209 RS Neb.)
      (4)   The Municipal Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
(Ref. 77-2210 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The Municipal Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually
within sixty (60) days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a
statement of the receipts and expenditures by funds of the Municipality for the
preceding fiscal year. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. If no legal newspaper is published in the
Municipality, then the publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper
published or of general circulation within the County in which the Municipality
is located. (Ref. 19-1103 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The Municipal Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the
Municipality separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall
invest and collect all money owned by or owed to the Municipality as directed
by the City Council. He or she shall maintain depository evidence that all
Municipal money is, in the name of the Municipal, in a solvent and going
financial institution of a type authorized by state law for deposit of
Municipal funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants, and other
evidences of debt against the Municipality, whenever paid by him or her, by
writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the Municipal Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 1-206 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
(See § 1-205)
§ 1-207 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
(See § 1-205)
§ 1-208 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the Municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the Municipality.
When requested by the Governing Body, he shall attend meetings of the Governing
Body, and shall advise any Municipal Official in all matters of law in which
the interests of the Municipality may be involved. He shall draft such
ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be required in the
administration of the affairs of the Municipality. He shall examine all bonds,
contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be required to act,
and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such instruments, and
documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and proper form. He
shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute violations of the Municipal
ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing Body. Without direction, he
shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the Municipal ordinances
that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher court. He shall also
examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records,
and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the
end that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
insure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage, and approval are concerned. The Governing Body shall have the right to
compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.)
§ 1-209 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act as
Health Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the Municipality
appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the Municipal ordinances, or the laws of the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 1-210 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICEMAN.
   The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
Municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in the Municipal
jail, or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held
before the proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the Municipality. They
shall have full power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary
to assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to
render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction
by a fine. Every Municipal Policeman shall be expected to be conversant, and
knowledgeable with the Municipal and State laws and no law enforcement official
shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal
Policemen shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the Municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Any Municipal Policeman who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an
arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an
arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the Governing Body to retain any
Municipal Policeman in that position after he shall have been duly convicted of
the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the State of
Nebraska, or any ordinance of the Municipality, except minor traffic
violations. It shall be the duty of every Municipal Policeman making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal
effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their
release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the Municipal
Police by the Municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall
be required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member
shall leave the force, he shall immediately deliver his badge to the Police
Chief. The Governing Body may from time to time provide the Municipal Police
with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties. (Ref. 17-118, 17-124 RS Neb.)
§ 1-211 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of
fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances; the
installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two (2) days investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his jurisdiction. He
shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April and October of each year,
cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
He shall have the power during the time of a fire, and for a period of thirty-
six (36) hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for
hindering the department's efforts, conducting himself in a noisy and
disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his assistant in charge of
operations at a fire may command the services of any person present at any fire
in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection of property.
Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The
Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers. (Ref. 17-147, 17-505,
35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 1-212 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his surveys and all
other work done for the Municipality. He shall, when directed by the Governing
Body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be
necessary in the judgment of the Governing Body. He shall, upon request of the
Governing Body, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be
done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all surveys,
estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges,
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Governing Body may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the Municipality, and shall be turned over to his
successor. (Ref. 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No.
245, 1/3/84)
§ 1-213 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL LANDFILL SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Landfill Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the Municipal Landfill, and of all dumping of garbage, refuse,
waste, and rubbish thereon, subject to the general control and directives of
the Governing Body. He shall at least every six (6) months, make a detailed
report to the Governing Body on the condition of the landfill, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, additions, and additional employees as he
may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall
issue dumping permits if the Governing Body should require them and shall
inspect and supervise all work done to improve or extend the landfill. He shall
have such other duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him. He may be
removed at any time by the Mayor. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
§ 1-214 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one Municipal utility, and the Governing Body determines that it is
in the best interest of the Municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said Municipal utilities and Municipal streets.
The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by the Mayor. Any
vacancy occurring in the said office by death, resignation or removal may be
filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all Municipal
officials. The Utilities Superintendent's duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein:
Water Department
He shall have general supervision and control over the Municipal Water System,
and shall be primarily responsible for its economic operation and prudent
management. Included in the said water system shall be the water plant, the
pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in connection with producing and
distributing water to inhabitants of the Municipality. All actions, decisions,
and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general
directives and control of the Governing Body. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the general control and supervisory authority over all employees of
the Water System which the Governing Body may from time to time hire to operate
and maintain the said system. Unless some other official is specifically
designated, he shall collect all money received by the Municipality on account
of the said system of waterworks, and shall faithfully account for, and pay
over to the Municipal Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the
Municipality and receive a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the
depository evidence of his faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall
then be filed with the Municipal Clerk, and the second (2nd) copy shall be kept
by the Superintendent. He shall make a detailed report to the Governing Body at
least once every six (6) months, of the condition of the said water system, of
all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery and such improvements,
repairs, and extensions thereof as he may think proper. The report shall show
the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding
six (6) months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extensions of the said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of his duties which shall amount to not less than
the amount set by resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. He shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the Governing Body.
Sewer Department
The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control, and supervision
over all the employees, and property that make up the Municipal sewer system,
subject to the general control, and directives of the Governing Body. He shall
at least every six (6) months, make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the sewer system, and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he
may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall
have such other duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him. He shall
issue permits for all connections to the Municipal sewer system, and inspect
and supervise all repairs made to the said system.
Electrical System
The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control and supervision
over all employees and property that make up the Municipal Electric System,
subject to the general control and directives of the Governing Body. He shall
at least every six (6) months, make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the Electrical System, and shall direct their attention to
such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as
he may believe are needed, along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall
have such other duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him.
Street Department
The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to the orders, and directives of
the Governing Body, have general charge, direction, and control of all work on
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the Municipality, and shall
perform such other duties as the Governing Body may require. It shall be his
responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly, and
that the same are kept in good repair. He shall, at the request of the
Governing Body make a detailed report to the Governing Body on the condition of
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the Municipality, and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions, and additional employees as he may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the Municipality along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He shall issue such permits, and assume such other duties as the
Governing Body may direct. (Ref. 17-107, 17-119, 17-541, 17-543 RS Neb.)
§ 1-215 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL DOG CATCHER.
   The Mayor shall have full authority to appoint one (1) or more Municipal
Dogcatchers to serve at the discretion of the Mayor.
   The Municipal Dogcatcher shall full authority to enforce the Ordinances of
the City of Wood River, Nebraska, pertaining to dogs and shall specifically
capture and contain any dog found off the premises of the owner and not under
the control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain,
wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Municipal Dogcatcher who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by this
Section, or to break open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel, or advise the breaking open of any Municipal animal shelter, ambulance
wagon, or other vehicle used for collecting or conveying dogs to the Municipal
shelter. (Ord. No. 209, 1/20/81)
ARTICLE 3. BONDS AND OATH
§ 1-301 BONDS; FORM.
   Official bonds of the Municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the Municipality in such penalty as the Governing Body
may set by resolution; Provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the Municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two (2)
sufficient sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official
as principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company; Provided
no Municipal official, while still in his official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official's bond, contractor's bond, license
bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be eligible for
suretyship on the bond of an official of the Municipality. All said bonds shall
obligate the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties
required by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the
Municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions
of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the Governing Body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
said instrument by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval
of the Governing Body. The premium on any official bond required to be given
may be paid out of the General Fund, or other proper Municipal fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the Governing Body at the beginning of any
Municipal year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk for his official records, and it shall be the
duty of the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed
upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the Governing
Body. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the
Municipality, in the opinion of the Governing Body, become insufficient, the
Governing Body may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said
officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event
that the officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or
additional sureties to the satisfaction, and approval of the Governing Body
then the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and
it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to appoint a competent, and
qualified person to fill the said office. Any official who is re-elected to
office shall be required to file a new bond after each election. (Ref. 11-103
thru 11-118, 17-604 RS Neb.)
§ 1-302 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
"I _________________________________________ do solemnly swear that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and
without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
___________________________, according to law, and to the best of my ability.
And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during
such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So help
me God."
(Ref. 11-101 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4. CORPORATE SEAL
§ 1-401 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "Official
Seal of the City of Wood River, Hall County, Nebraska." The Municipal Clerk
shall affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the
Governing Body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5. MEETINGS
§ 1-501 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 246, 1/3/84)
§ 1-502 MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
   (A)   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
   (B)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, Certificate of Need appeal panels, or any other bodies, now or
hereafter created by Constitution, statute, or otherwise pursuant to law, and
   (C)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 246,
1/3/84)
§ 1-503 MEETINGS; PUBLIC.
   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a Municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the Governing Body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the Governing Body and to the public by a method designated by the
Governing Body or by the Mayor if the Governing Body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be enlarged later
than twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting.
The Governing Body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items
of an emergency nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the
Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time by
which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the
availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time
and specific place of the meetings, and the names of each member of the
Governing Body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the
Governing Body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon
request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any
official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
taken only by roll call vote of the Governing Body in open session. The record
of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or that the member was
absent and did not vote. (Ref. 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 246, 1/3/84)
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions may be held
for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
      (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion of the
appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (2)   The entire motion, the vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in
open session. The vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action shall mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise
to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under subdivision (a) of this
section.
   (3)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
(a) the protection of the public interest or (b) the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled
only by a majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and
its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this Article. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this Article.
   (5)   The provisions of this Article and the open meetings act shall not
apply to chance meetings, or to attendance at or travel to conventions or
workshops of members of a public body at which there is no meeting of the body
then intentionally convened and there is no vote or other action taken
regarding any matter over which the public body has supervision, control,
jurisdiction, or advisory power. (Ref. 84-1410 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos.
246, 1/3/84; 377, 10/17/95)
§ 1-505 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of Section §1-508 of this Article shall be complied
with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency
meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal action taken at
the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later than the end of
the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 246,
1/3/84)
§ 1-506 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time, place,
members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection during
normal business hours.
   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten (10)
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional ten (10) working days if the
employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness
or emergency. (Ref. 84-1412, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§ 1-507 MEETINGS; VOTES.
   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record shall
state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by secret
ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in
the minutes. (Ref. 17-616, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§ 1-508 MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, and in the case of the Board of Trustees, the
Secretary, or other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the
news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.  (Ref. 84-1411 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-509 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   Subject to the provisions of this Article, the public shall have the right
to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or any
part of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called pursuant
to Section 1-504 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   It shall not be a violation of this Section for any public body to make and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of persons
attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing, broadcasting,
or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow citizens to
speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all
meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this Article hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small to
accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this Section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this State. No public body shall hold a meeting
outside the State of Nebraska. The public body shall, upon request, make a
reasonable effort to accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and
testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the
meeting, for examination and copying by members of the public, at least one (1)
copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
Public bodies shall make available at least one (1) current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information. (Ref. 84-1412 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord.
Nos. 246, 1/3/84; 272, 12/17/85)
§ 1-510 MEETINGS; GOVERNING BODY.
   The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in the meeting place of the
Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first (1st) Tuesday after
the first (1st) Monday of each month and fourteen days after the first meeting.
Meetings are to commence at the hour of seven-thirty (7:30) o'clock P.M.
Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three (3) members of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the Municipal Clerk. No other business shall be transacted at
such meeting unless all members of the City Council are present and consent
thereto. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
notify the Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time and its
purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a Councilmember known
to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present. Two-thirds (2/3) of
the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the
attendance of the absent members; Provided, that on the request of any two (2)
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether
a quorum is present. If a quorum is present the Council shall be called to
order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of the Council.
In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City
Councilmembers shall elect a President pro tempore. (Ref. 17-105, 17-106 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-511 MEETINGS; PROCEDURES FOR THE CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; ADOPTION OF ROBERT'S
RULES OF ORDER; LIMITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENT; INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES;
LIMITATION ON MEETING TIME.
   (1)   Excluding public hearings and closed sessions, each Council Meeting
shall last no longer than two (2) hours. This rule of the Council is
implemented to give fair consideration to each agenda item. This rule may be
suspended, however, in the event that circumstances warrant. An additional
limit of one (1) hour is placed on closed sessions of the Council. This rule
extending to three (3) hours total time may also be suspended by motion noted
in the record.
   (2)   The Clerk shall cause to be made laminated outlines of the rules and
shall have custody of the same. These outlines shall be placed before the
Council members and Mayor at each meeting. The Mayor shall preserve order
during meetings of the Governing Body and shall decide all questions of order,
subject to an appeal of the Governing Body.
   (3)   All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being
acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk or any member of the Governing
Body. Every member of the Governing Body who is present when a question is
voted upon shall cast his/her vote unless excused by the majority of the
Governing Body present. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered in
the Minutes, the name of the Governing Body making the motion or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the yeas and nays shall be taken and
entered in the Minutes upon the request of any member of the Governing Body.
Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or proposed
ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof.
   (4)   When, in consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts are
proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest time. A
question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member voting with the
majority, but such motion to reconsider must be made before the expiration of
the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When
any question is under debate, no motion shall be made or entertained, except
the previous question, a motion to table and to adjourn. Each of those said
motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the rules for the Governing
Body for meetings and agenda items may be suspended by a three-fourths (3/4)
vote of the Council members.
   (5)   Failure to abide by the procedural provisions of the Governing Body of
meetings and agenda items shall not affect the legality of any action taken by
the Council that would otherwise be valid. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of order is the authority by which the
Governing Body shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
   (6)   Any person speaking, whether during public comment, or on a motion
before the Governing Body, shall identify themselves for the record.
   (7)   Public Comment. Fifteen (15) minutes shall be allotted at every
Council meeting for any person to come forward and comment on any non-agenda
item. The time shall be divided equally among those wishing to speak. Members
of the City Council may make no motions during the period of the public
comment. Members of the City Council may, however, ask clarifying questions.
Any person requesting action by the City Council during the public comment
shall receive a letter, outlining action that the City will do in regard to the
item in question, or the options open to the individual.
   (8)   Motions. Upon subject only, after recognized, in all cases, a second
shall be required and recorded in the Minutes.
   (9)   Debate. All, except ordinances, shall have a time limit of ten (10)
minutes. Ordinances shall have a time limit of twenty (20) minutes. Alternating
debate shall have the proponent's presentation first.
   (10)   Question. Non-debatable, prior to vote, except the Council member
introducing a motion, shall have one (1) minute for summation, even though the
debate ceases by the call of the question.
   (11)   Roll Call. The City shall use an electronic means of taking roll call
vote.
   (12)   Suspend Rules. Three-fourths (3/4) vote.
   (13)   Motion to Table. Two (2) minute time limit for each side, maker
first.
   (14)   Robert's Rules. In effect unless otherwise noted.
   (15)   Public Hearing.   The City Council shall designate a time in its
regular agenda for the conduct of a public hearing. Any person may come forward
and address the Council at the public hearing on any item appearing on the
agenda for public hearing for that meeting. No person shall be permitted to
address the City Council for longer than five (5) minutes, except by unanimous
consent of all members of the City Council present; provided, that this
limitation shall not apply to proceedings before the City Council requiring the
taking of testimony under oath.
   (16)   Ordinances. Ordinances shall be introduced by a member of the
Council, provided the ordinance has been placed on the agenda of a regular
meeting of the Governing Body. Any person may comment on the ordinance at any
public hearing held after the introduction of the ordinance, provided that no
one ordinance shall be subject of more than fifteen (15) minutes discussion
during any single public hearing, divided as follows:
      Introducer of ordinance   5 minutes for opening remarks
      Proponents   5 minutes
      Opponents   5 minutes
If the Council does not suspend the statutory rules and pass the ordinance on
its first vote, following the approval of an ordinance on its first reading,
the City Attorney will be authorized to work with the Council member
introducing the ordinance, to add legal form to an ordinance.
   (17)   Meetings; Agenda.
      (a)   Agenda items for regular meetings of the Governing Body shall be
submitted to the City Clerk no later than noon on the Friday preceding the
meeting date so that they may be noted upon the agenda. No action shall be
taken by the Governing Body on agenda items which are not submitted to the
Clerk by the Friday noon deadline preceding the meeting date unless this rule
is suspended by a majority of the Council members present and voting. Late
agenda items to which this rule applies but that are not suspended by the
Governing Body, shall be tabled to the next regular or special meeting and the
item placed upon that agenda by the City Clerk for that meeting. Items of an
emergency nature arising after the Friday noon deadline preceding the meeting
may be placed upon the agenda for action by the Council.
      (b)   An exception to the 12:00 o'clock Friday noon deadline preceding
the Council meeting may be made for informational items.
      (c)   Items may be placed on the agenda only by Council members, the
Mayor and Clerk. The Clerk may place routine items on the agenda without
endorsement and shall place on the agenda matters requiring action by state law
and items requested by the City Attorney. When possible, the agenda should be
delivered to the Mayor and Council members by Friday evening preceding the
meeting date.
   (18)   Agenda Rules.
      (a)   To foster an orderly transaction of business, the Mayor, with the
help of the City Clerk, may arrange items on the agenda within the general
context of the agenda for efficient disposition of business at his/her
discretion. Also, the Mayor may dispose of all items pertaining to consultants
in attendance upon their arrival at the meeting.
      (b)   Individual citizens wishing a specific item to be placed upon the
agenda shall be directed to the Council person for their ward or the Mayor. The
Mayor and City Clerk shall make the final determination as to the makeup of the
agenda.
   (19)   Meetings; Agenda Form. To conform to the rules of the Governing Body,
the following form shall be used for the agenda:
         I.   Call to Order
         II.   Consent Agenda
         III.   Public Hearings
         IV.   Public Comment
         V.   Introduction of Resolutions & Ordinances
         VI.   Introduction of Business & Communications
   (20)   Agenda; Support Material. All committee reports and department head
reports and requests and communications shall be in written form. All support
materials shall be in writing and delivered to the Clerk by the deadline for
agenda items prior to the meeting. (Amended by Ord. No. 431, 8/22/00)
§ 1-512 MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same. (Ref. 17-107.02(9)
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 144, 2/3/76)
§ 1-513 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the City on the first (1st) regular meeting in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the City to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall
then nominate his candidates for appointive offices. He shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first (1st) regular meeting in
December following his election. All appointive officers shall qualify within
two (2) weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who
is not required to give bond shall consist in his subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the Municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of his office, said oath to be filed in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with the
oath endorsed thereon. (Amended by Ord. No. 143, 2/3/76)
§ 1-514 MEETINGS; REGULAR MEETING.
   The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in the meeting place of the
Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first (1st) Tuesday after
the first (1st) Monday and the Tuesday two (2) weeks following of each month at
the hour of seven (7:00) o'clock P.M.
   At all meetings of the Council a majority of the Councilmembers shall
constitute a quorum to do business. (Ref. 17-105 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 273, 12/17/
85)
§ 1-515 MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of the City
Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The
call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall notify the Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating
the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Councilmember known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present.
A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and
compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor
and the President of the Council, the City Councilmembers shall elect a
President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall
comply with procedures set forth in Chapter 1, Article 6 herein. (Ref. 17-106
RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 273, 12/17/85)
ARTICLE 6. ORDINANCES
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES; GRANT OF POWER.
   The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
by-laws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the Municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   1.   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council read aloud the
substance of his proposed ordinance and file a copy of the same with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration;
   2.   Or with the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present his
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
same and shall file the same for future consideration.
§ 1-603 ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one (1) time in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote
shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution
or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
   "Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Wood River,
Nebraska:"
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their adoption a concurrence of the majority of the members of the
Governing Body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
the title on three (3) different days unless three-fourths (3/4) of the
Governing Body vote to suspend this requirement, except that such requirement
shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In
case such requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and
then moved for final passage. Three-fourths (3/4) of the Council may require
any ordinance to be read in full before final passage under either process.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 378, 10/17/95)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one (1) time within
fifteen (15) days after they are passed in some newspaper published in the
Municipality, or if no paper is published in the Municipality, then by posting
a written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public places in the
Municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the
Municipal Clerk's minutes.  (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-610 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 7. ELECTIONS
§ 1-701 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   The Municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter Thirty-two (32) Revised Statutes of Nebraska. Said
elections shall be held in conjunction with the State Primary and General
Election. Prior to February One (1) of the year in which the first (1st) such
joint election takes place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in
writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk
for Municipal election purposes. Charges shall be paid to the County Clerk as
set forth in Section 32-4,147 RS Neb.
   Commencing with the Statewide Primary Election in 1976, and every two (2)
years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the Statewide
Primary Election and elected at the Statewide General Election. (Ref. 17-107.02
(1),(2), 32-4,146, 32-4,147 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-702 ELECTIONS; EXTENSION OF TERMS.
   The term of office of any member of the Governing Body that would expire
prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1976, is hereby
extended to December, 1976.
   The term of office of any member that would expire after December, 1976, but
prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1978, is hereby
extended to the first regular meeting in December, 1978. (Ref. 17-107.02(2)(3)
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-703 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required. (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 141, 2/3/
76)
§ 1-704 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION; WRITE-IN CANDIDATES.
   When the name of a candidate who did not file or become a petition candidate
for nomination is written in and voted for as a candidate for a Council member,
such person shall not be entitled to a certificate of nomination at the
Statewide Primary Election nor have his name placed on the General Election
ballot unless he shall have received not less than twenty (20%) per cent of the
total votes cast for the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes in
the precinct or ward or the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes of
the at-large candidates, whichever the case may be, at the preceding election
in which candidates were elected to serve the ward, or of the at-large
candidates if the election was held at large. (Ref.17-107.02(6) RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-705 ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-706 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-
in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election. (Ref. 17-
107.02(6)&(7) RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-707 ELECTIONS; ELECTION TO TERMS.
   The candidates shall be placed on the general election ballot and the
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected to terms of
the longest duration, and those receiving the next greatest number of votes
shall be elected to the remaining term or terms. The County Clerk shall place
the names of the candidates on the general election ballot in the direct order
according to the number of votes received at the primary election. The term of
office of all such members shall commence on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following their election. Any vacancy on the Council
resulting from causes other than expiration of the term shall be filled by vote
of the remaining members as provided in Section 1-105 or Section 1-106. (Ref.
17-107.02(8) RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 141, 2/3/76)
§ 1-708 ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to one (1%) per cent of the
annual salary for the office for which the candidate will file; Provided, there
shall be no filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per
diem is paid rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of
less than five hundred ($500.00) dollars per year. No nominating papers shall
be filed until the proper Municipal Treasurer's receipt, showing the payment of
the filing fee, shall be presented to the election officer with whom the
nomination papers are to be filed. (Ref. 32-513 RS Neb.)
§ 1-709 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than ten (10) days prior to the Primary
Election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all Municipal
Elections which are held in conjunction with the County, if such notice is
signed by the Mayor. (Ref. 32-402.01 RS Neb.)
§ 1-710 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL MUNICIPAL.
   In lieu of submitting a matter or issue at a separate special Municipal
Election, the Municipality may submit such matter or issue at a statewide
General or Primary Election or at a scheduled County Election or may request
the County to conduct a special election. Such matter or issue must be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
at least fifty (50) days prior to the election. The Municipal Clerk shall be
responsible for the publication or posting of any required special notice of
the submission of such matter other than that required to be given of the
statewide or county election issues. (Ref. 32-4,153, 32-4,154 RS Neb.)(Amended
by Ord. No. 259, 5/19/85)
§ 1-711 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE.
    No less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days, prior to any
special Municipal election, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare and cause to be
published once in a newspaper that is in or of general circulation in the
Municipality, but if no newspaper is published in or is of general circulation
in the Municipality, then by posting in each of three (3) public places in the
Municipality, a notice containing the proclamation concerning the said special
election. The notice shall be in the form prescribed by State law. (Ref. 19-
3006 RS Neb.)
§ 1-712 ELECTIONS; PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL
ELECTION BALLOT; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and section
32-621 RS Neb. or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under subsection (2) of section 32-625 RS Neb. and the candidate files
for the office by petition as prescribed in this section or files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in section 32-615 RS Neb. (Ref. 32-616 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of section
32-628 RS Neb. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and
address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the
party affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered
voters residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if
candidates are chosen by ward, or residing in the Municipality, if candidates
are not chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same
manner as provided for candidate filing forms in section 32-607 RS Neb.
Petition signers and circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections
32-629 and 32-630 RS Neb. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless
there is attached thereto a receipt showing payment of the filing fee required
pursuant to section 32-608 RS Neb. The petitions shall be filed by September 1
in the year of the general election. (Ref. 32-617 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of registered voters
voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election in the ward in which the officer is to be elected or
in the Municipality, as appropriate.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least twenty percent (20%) of the total vote for Governor or President of
the United States at the immediately preceding general election within the
Municipality, not to exceed two thousand (2000). (Ref. 32-618 RS Neb.)   
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 259, 2/19/85; 463, 10/21/03)
§ 1-713 ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEN.
   Councilmen shall be elected from the Municipality at large unless the
residents of the Municipality have voted to elect its Councilmen by wards.
Councilmen shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident and
qualified elector. If the election of Councilmen takes place by wards, each
nominee for Councilman shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward
for which he is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate's nomination petitions. (Ref. 5-108 RS Neb.)
§ 1-714 ELECTIONS; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; Provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county.  (Ref. 17-602, 32-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-715 ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall at least fifteen (15) days prior to the State Primary
Elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three (3)
judges and two (2) clerks of election in each election unit in the
Municipality, to be known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees
referred to shall be of good character, approved integrity, well informed, able
to read, write, and speak the English language, reside in the election precinct
in which he is to serve, be entitled to vote in his election unit, and hold
office for a term of two (2) years, or until judges and clerks of election are
appointed for the next State Primary Election. (Ref. 32-403 thru 32-412 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-716 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   No less than ten (10) days prior to any general Municipal election, the
Municipal Clerk shall prepare a notice to be published in a newspaper that is
in, or of general circulation in the Municipality, but if there is no newspaper
of general circulation in the Municipality, then by posting the said notice in
each of three (3) public places. The notice shall follow the form prescribed by
law. (Ref. 19-3005 RS Neb.)
§ 1-717 ELECTIONS; WARDS.
   The Municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent Federal Census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population. The Municipality shall stand divided into three (3) wards, numbered
One (1) through Three (3), the boundaries of such wards defined as shown on the
drawing entitled, "Election Ward Map of the City of Wood River, Nebraska." The
Election Ward Map of the City of Wood River, Nebraska, shall be kept current
and on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   The polling place for Ward One (1), Ward Two (2), and Ward Three (3) shall
be at City Hall, located at 108 W. 10th Street, Wood River, Nebraska.
(Ord. No. 572, 11/16/21)
§ 1-718 ELECTIONS; BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general Municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the Municipality. (Ref. 32-417, 32-418 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-719 ELECTIONS; INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased, or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he was a candidate, and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
Provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than thirty-
five (35%) per cent of the total number of votes cast for such office in the
election. If any of the qualifications of this Section are not met by the
candidate to be declared elected, or reasonable notice of the winners
ineligibility is not available to the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be
declared to exist at the time of commencement of the term and shall be filled
as prescribed by law. (Ref. 32-537 (7) & (8) RS Neb.)
§ 1-720 ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any or all of the elected officials of the City may be removed from
office by recall pursuant to sections 32-1301 to 32-1309 RS Neb. Petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-628, 32-630 and
32-1303 RS Neb. Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of
section 32-1304 RS Neb.
   (B)   (1)   The petition papers shall be procured from the City Clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the Clerk by at least one (1) registered voter. Such voter or voters shall
be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall petition.
The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought to be
removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of sixty (60)
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The Clerk shall deliver a copy of the affidavit by
certified mail to the official sought to be removed. If the official chooses,
he or she may submit a defense statement in typewritten form in concise
language of sixty (60) words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within twenty (20)
days after the official receives the copy of the affidavit. The Clerk shall
notify the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures
must be gathered within thirty (30) days from the date of issuing the
petitions.
      (2)   The Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Clerk
shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or circulators
to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No petition paper
shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such certificate. The
principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions from the Clerk may
distribute such petitions to registered voters residing in the district who may
act as circulators of such petitions. For purposes of this section, if the
official was elected by ward, district shall mean that ward, and if the
official was not elected by ward, district shall mean the city.
      (3)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-
629, 32-630, and 32-1303 RS Neb.
      (4)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or another elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least thirty-five percent (35%) of the total vote cast for that office in the
last general election, except that for an office for which more than one (1)
candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least thirty-five (35%) of the number of votes cast for the person
receiving the most votes for such office in the last general election. The
signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be considered part of
the petition. (Ref. 32-1303 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one (1)
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Clerk within thirty (30) days after the Clerk issues the
initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators.
      (2)   Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the petition, the
Clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite
number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial
filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the Clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk shall attach
to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If the
requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the Clerk shall file the
petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition
for the same purpose. (Ref. 32-1305 RS Neb.)
   (D)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk shall
notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council that
sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five (5) days after receiving the notice, the Council shall order an
election to be held not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty-five (45)
days after the expiration of the five-day period, except that if any other
election is to be held in the city within ninety (90) days of the expiration of
the five-day period, the Council shall provide for the holding of the removal
election on the same day. After the Council sets the date for the recall
election, the recall election shall be held regardless of whether the official
whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held. (Ref. 32-
1306 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (F) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and state law.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to one percent
(1%) or less between the removal or retention of the official in question, the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a
recount of the votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a
written statement with the City Clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council at one time due to the recall of such members, a
special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as
possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Ref. 32-1308 RS Neb.)
   (F)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from
office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or
within six (6) months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Ref. 32-1309 RS Neb.)   (Ord. No. 259, 2/19/85) (Amended by Ord. No. 464, 10/
21/03)
§ 1-721 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-4,157
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 259, 2/19/85)
ARTICLE 8. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 1-801 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Municipality for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations, shall begin the first (1st) day in August of each year. (Ref.
17-701 RS Neb.)
§ 1-802 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (1)   The Governing Body shall prepare in writing and file with the
Municipal Clerk, not later than the first (1st) day of August of each year on
forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed
budget statement containing the following information, except as provided by
state law:
      (a)   For the immediate two (2) prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to each of the several funds and
separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: The unencumbered
cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the year; the amount
received by taxation of personal and real property allocated to each fund; and
the amount of actual expenditure for each fund;
      (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to each of the several funds
and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: The actual
unencumbered cash balance available for such fund at the beginning of the year;
the amount received from personal and real property taxation allocated to each
fund; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each such fund
for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered.
Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of
prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
budget adopted for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds, and for each
fund: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever is
applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed
to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual
experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property (i) for the
purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the Governing
Body and (ii) for all other purposes;
      (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total of all funds
maintained by the Governing Body; and
      (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (2)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the Municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the Municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
   (3)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property, shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year. (Ref. 13-504, 13-505 RS
Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 260, 2/19/85; 437, 11/7/00)
§ 1-803 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION;
CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (1)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the Municipal
Clerk, the Governing Body shall each year conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Municipality or by direct mailing of the notice
to each resident within the Municipality.
   (2)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately (a) the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Governing Body and (b) the amount to be received for all
other purposes.
   (3)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within twenty (20) days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for such changes.
   (4)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.(Ref.
13-506, 13-507 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 436, 11/7/00)
§ 1-804 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF
AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the Governing Body shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with sections 13-518 through 13-522 RS Neb., together
with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out
separately (a) the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Governing Body and (b) the amount to be levied for all
other purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (2)   The Governing Body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding five percent (5%) of the amount
required plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax
year and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the Governing Body shall
not certify an amount of tax more than one percent (1%) greater or lesser than
the amount determined in section 13-505 RS Neb.
   (3)   The Governing Body shall use the final adjusted values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to section 13-509 RS Neb. for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section. (Ref. 13-508 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 435, 11/7/00)
§ 1-804.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (1)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the Governing Body in
September, the Governing Body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the Municipality. Except as provided in subsection (2) of
this section, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the
total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the
prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
   (2) The restriction on expenditures in subsection (1) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Governing Body that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the Municipality to meet
its statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Governing Body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the Municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision. (Ref. 13-509.01, 13-509.02 RS
Neb.)  (Ord. No. 379, 10/17/95)
§ 1-805 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-806   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Governing Body shall, on or before August 15th, pass an ordinance to be
termed The Annual Appropriation Bill, in which are appropriated such sums of
money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the Municipality, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of
tax authorized to be levied. The said ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which such appropriations are to be made, and the amount
appropriated for each purpose. Any balance unexpended and unobligated at the
end of the fiscal year shall, unless reappropriated, lapse into the general
fund. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.)
§ 1-807 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The Governing Body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the Municipality which the
Municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to section 77-3442 RS Neb., the maximum amount of tax which
may be so certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in
excess of the amounts specified in section 17-702 RS Neb. (Ref. 17-702 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 433, 11/7/00)
§ 1-808 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
   No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any
one (1) year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement. (Ref. 17-708 RS Neb.)
§ 1-809 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACT.
   The Governing Body shall before making any contract in excess of ten
thousand ($10,000.00) dollars as estimated by the Municipal Engineer, for
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, or work on streets, or any other work or improvement where the cost of
such improvement shall be assessed to the property, advertise for bids, unless
such contract shall be entered into for the benefit of the Municipal Electric
Utility. A Municipal Electric Utility may enter into a contract for any such
work or improvement or for the purchase of such equipment without advertising
for bids if the: (a) Price is ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollars or less; (b)
price is twenty thousand ($20,000.00) dollars or less and the Municipal
Electric Utility has a gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of one
million ($1,000,000.00) dollars; (c) price is thirty thousand ($30,000.00)
dollars or less and the Municipal Electric Utility has gross annual revenues
from retail sales in excess of five million ($5,000,000.00) dollars; or (d)
price is forty thousand ($40,000.00) dollars or less and the Municipal Electric
Utility has gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of ten million
($10,000,000.00) dollars. In advertising for bids for any such work, or for the
purchase of such equipment, the Governing Body may cause the amount of such
estimate to be published therewith.
   Such advertisement shall be published once each week for three (3)
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation
in the Municipality, or by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three (3) public places in the Municipality; provided, that in case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, or war, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a
three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body.
   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Governing
Body receives fewer than two (2) bids on a contract for services, material, or
labor, or if the bids received by the Governing Body contain a price which
exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the Governing Body shall have the
authority to negotiate a contract for services, material, or labor in an
attempt to complete the proposed project at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Governing Body, or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the purchasing Municipality, the
Governing Body or Board of Public Works, may authorize the manufacture and
assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost
expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   The Municipal bidding procedure shall be waived when materials or equipment
are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials or
equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the State bidding
procedure. (Ref. 17-568.01, 17-613 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 247, 1/3/84)
§ 1-810 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, and the results of such audits shall appear separately in
the annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
Every Governing Body that is required herein to submit to an audit of its
accounts shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk, not later than August
1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures
for the most recently completed fiscal year. (Ref. 19-2901 through 19-2909, 23-
934 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 261, 2/19/85)
§ 1-811 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
   All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) percent of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn; provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) percent, but not more
than one hundred (100%) percent of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§ 1-812 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund. (Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§ 1-813 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The Governing Body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the Governing Body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
Governing Body, the Governing Body shall file with the County Clerk and the
Nebraska State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the
amount of additional tax to be levied. The Governing Body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as "registered warrants," and
shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes
levied therefor. (Ref. 23-928, 23-929 RS Neb.)
§ 1-814 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§ 1-815 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS.
   The Governing Body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by State law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the Municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by State law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
Municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by State law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the Governing
Body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the Municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general Municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three (3) times on
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The Governing Body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
State law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the Governing
Body in the manner provided by State law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the Governing Body is authorized to do so by sixty (60%)
percent of the qualified electors of the Municipality voting at a general
election favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund.  (Ref. 19-1301
through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339 RS Neb.)
§ 1-816 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 1-817 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one (1) or more banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing
in which the City Treasurer shall keep at all times, subject to payment on his
or her demand, all money held by him or her as City Treasurer. If there is one
(1) or more banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying mutual
financial institutions located in the City which apply for the privilege of
keeping such money and give bond or give security for the repayment of deposits
as provided in this section, such banks, capital stock financial institutions,
or qualifying mutual financial institutions shall be selected as such
depositories. The City Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one (1) or
more of them in the money he or she may so deposit.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions:
      (1)   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at
any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or, in lieu thereof,
      (2)   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act
to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
The City Council shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, as a member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the City
shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or
qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for such
municipal funds. (Ref. 17-607 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Section 77-2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in qualifying
mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 77-2362 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 465,
10/21/03)
§ 1-818 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body of such city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. (Ref. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 319, 1/2/90)
§ 1-819 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-
529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§ 1-820 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (1)   Property tax levies for the support of the Municipality for fiscal
years beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set
forth in this subsection except as provided in subsection (3) of this section.
The Municipality may levy a maximum levy of forty-five cents (45¢) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of taxable valuation of property subject to the levy
plus an additional five cents (5¢) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the Municipality's share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include
amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to section 51-201
RS Neb., museum pursuant to section 51-501 RS Neb., visiting community nurse,
home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to section 71-1637 RS Neb.,
or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to section 80-202 RS Neb. Property
tax levies for judgments except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the Municipality which require or
obligate the Municipality to pay such judgment, to the extent such judgment is
not paid by liability insurance coverage of the Municipality, for preexisting
lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this
subsection. The limitations on tax levies provided in this subsection are to
include all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding
other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this subsection
are those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of
the limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under
section 77-1606 RS Neb. unless approved under subsection (3) of this section.
   (2)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities Airport
Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under the
Community Development Law, and offstreet parking districts established under
the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the Municipality and are counted in
the Municipality's levy limit provided by subsection (1) of this section,
except that such limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, and for
bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on
property. The Governing Body shall review and approve or disapprove the levy
request of the political subdivisions subject to this subsection. The Governing
Body may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy
request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy
allocated by the Municipality may be exceeded as provided in subsection (3) of
this section. On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
municipal levy authority under this subsection shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Governing Body. The preliminary request of
the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision's governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in section
77-3444 RS Neb. to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this
subsection. The Governing Body shall (a) adopt a resolution by a majority vote
of members present which determines a final allocation of levy authority to its
political subdivisions and (b) forward a copy of such resolution to the
chairperson of the governing body of each of its political subdivisions. No
final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except by agreement
between both the Governing Body and the governing body of the political
subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (3)   The Municipality may exceed the limits provided in subsection (1) of
this section by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority
of registered voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special
election at which the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to
exceed the limits must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which
is to be the first to exceed the limits. The Governing Body may call for the
submission of the issue to the voters (a) by passing a resolution calling for
exceeding the limits by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Governing Body and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
Municipality or (b) upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the Municipality
requesting an election signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered
voters residing in the Municipality. The resolution or petition shall include
the amount of levy which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in
subsection (1) of this section and the duration of the excess levy authority.
The excess levy authority shall not have a duration greater than five (5)
years. Any resolution or petition calling for a special election shall be filed
with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than thirty (30) days
prior to the date of the election, and the time of publication and providing a
copy of the notice of election required in section 32-802 RS Neb. shall be no
later than twenty (20) days prior to the election. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least thirty (30) days after receipt
of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held pursuant to the
Election Act. For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as
provided in sections 32-628 to 32-631 RS Neb. Any excess levy authority
approved under this subsection shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote
of the Governing Body to terminate the authority to levy more than the limits,
at the end of the fourth fiscal year following the first year in which the levy
exceeded the limit, or as provided in subsection (4) of this section, whichever
is earliest. The Governing Body may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this subsection during any one calendar year. There
shall be no limit on the number of elections held pursuant to this subsection
which are initiated by petition. The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in section 77-3444 RS Neb. If a majority of the votes cast
upon the ballot question are in favor of such tax, the County Board shall
authorize a tax in excess of the limits in subsection (1) of this section, but
such tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the ballot question. If a
majority of those voting on the ballot question are opposed to such tax, the
Governing Body shall not impose such tax. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner may set a uniform date for a special election to be held before
October 10, 1998, to submit the issue of exceeding the limits provided in
section 77-3442 RS Neb. or the final levy allocation as provided in section 77-
3443 RS Neb. to the voters of political subdivisions in the county seeking
additional levy authority. The Municipality may individually or in conjunction
with one or more other political subdivisions conduct a special election on a
date different from that set by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner,
except that the Governing Body shall pass a resolution calling for a special
election for this purpose and deliver a copy of the resolution to the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than thirty (30) days prior to the date
of the election.
   (4)   The Municipality may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective. The Governing Body may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters (a) by passing a resolution calling for the rescission or modification
by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Governing Body and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the Municipality or
(b) upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of
every county containing all or part of the Municipality requesting an election
signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered voters residing in the
Municipality. The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five (5) years. The County Clerk or
Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as
called for in the resolution or petition which is at least thirty (30) days
after receipt of the resolution or petition, and the time of publication and
providing a copy of the notice of election required in section 32-802 RS Neb.
shall be no later than twenty (20) days prior to the election. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. (Ref. 77-3442 through 77-3444 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 434, 11/7/00)
§ 1-821 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS;
AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The Governing Body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by section 77-1702 RS Neb.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Governing Body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The Governing Body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the Governing Body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one (1) or more financial institutions, vending
service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-
party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the Governing Body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) of this section. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the Municipality by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
such surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G) For purposes of this section, electronic funds transfer means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve's Fedwire system. (Ref. 13-609 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 468, 10/21/03)
§ 1-822 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   By reason of the approval of the voters of the City of Wood River at
the special election held in the City on August 11, 2015, the City of Wood
River does hereby impose a sales and use tax of 1.5% upon the same transactions
within the City of Wood River on which the State of Nebraska is authorized to
impose a tax pursuant to the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, as amended from time
to time. The administration of such sales and use tax shall be by the Nebraska
Tax Commissioner pursuant to section 77-27,143 RS Neb.
   (B)   The sales and use tax imposed by this section shall commence on the
first day of the next calendar quarter which is at least one hundred twenty
(120) days following receipt of a certified copy of this section as set forth
in section 77-27,143 RS Neb.
   (C)   After passage and adoption of this section, the City Clerk is hereby
directed to send by certified or registered mail to the Nebraska Tax
Commissioner a certified copy of Ordinance 542 together with a certified map of
the City of Wood River, a certified copy of the election results and a
statement from the Hall Election Commissioner stating that this issue has not
been voted on and failed within the twenty- three (23) months preceding the
election. (Ord. No. 542, 9/1/15)
ARTICLE 9. COMPENSATION
§ 1-901 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The Compensation of any elective official of the Municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the compensation of
the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he resigns and desires to be
rehired during the unexpired term of office. He may be rehired after the term
of office during which he resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall be
set by ordinance of the Governing Body and will be available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-108.02, 17-612 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-902   COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   For purposes of this section officer shall mean (a) any member of any Board
or Commission of the Municipality, (b) any Appointed Official if such Municipal
Official (i) serves on a Board or Commission which spends and administers its
own funds and (ii) is dealing with a contract made by such Board or Commission,
or (c) any elected Municipal Official. Unless specified otherwise, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers for
purposes of this section, with respect to their duties as firefighters and
ambulance drivers.
   No officer of the Municipality shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the Municipality is a party. The existence of such an
interest in any contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action
to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by the
Municipality or by any resident thereof and must be brought within one (1) year
after the contract is signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the Municipality has benefited thereby. The prohibition in this section shall
apply only when the officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child (a) has an
ownership interest of five (5%) percent or more in any business involved in the
contract or (b) will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract; provided however, if such officer (a) is an employee of the
business involved in the contract and (b) has no ownership interest or will not
receive a pecuniary fee such officer shall not be deemed to have an interest
within the meaning of this section.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested officer:
   A.   Makes a declaration on the record to the Governmental Body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
   B.   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except that if
the number of members of the Board declaring an interest in the contract would
prevent the Board, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
   C.   Does not act for the Municipality as to inspection or performance under
the contract in which he or she has an interest.
   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any Municipality by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this
section. The ownership of less than five (5%) percent of the outstanding shares
of a corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A through C above, if an
officer's parent, spouse or child is an employee of the Municipality, the
officer may vote on all issues of the contract which are generally applicable
to all employees or all employees within a classification and do not single out
his or her parent, spouse, or child for special action. If an officer has the
power to employ personnel and he or she hires his or her parent, spouse, or
child, such officer shall disclose the hiring pursuant to subsections 1 through
5 below, except that if the parent, spouse, or child is already employed in the
position at the time the officer takes office and such position does not
change, no disclosure need be made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, any contract entered into with an interested officer shall be subject
to applicable competitive bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable
to the Municipality.
   The Municipal Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records, a ledger
containing the information listed in subsections 1 through 5 of this section
about every contract entered into by the Municipality in which an officer has
an interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as provided in
subsections A through C above. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for
five (5) years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall
include the:
   1.   Names of the contracting parties;
   2.   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
   3.   Date that the contract was approved by the Municipality involved;
   4.   Amount of the contract; and
   5.   Basic terms of the contract.
   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided to the
Clerk not later than ten (10) days after the contract has been signed by both
parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk shall be available for public inspection
during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   An open account established for the benefit of any Municipality or entity
thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be deemed a
contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement required to
be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten (10) days after
such account is opened. Thereafter, the Clerk shall maintain a running account
of all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty cash or
a petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
   Any officer who knowingly violates the provisions of sections 18-301.01
through 18-301.03 RS Neb., shall be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor. Any
officer who negligently violates sections 18-301.01 through 18-301.03 RS Neb.
shall be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor.
   The Municipality may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of this
section, contracts involving one hundred ($100.00) dollars or less in which an
officer of such Municipality may have an interest.
   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers, shall
receive any pay or perquisites from the Municipality other than his or her
salary. The Governing Body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the duties
of any officer of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-611, 18-301.01 through 18-301.03,
18-305 through 18-312, 70-624.04 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 242, 1/3/84;
262, 2/19/85)
§ 1-903   COMPENSATION; ELECTED OFFICIALS; SALARIES.
   The Mayor and City Council members of the municipality shall be paid the
following sums effective with the term of office commencing at the December
1996 organizational meeting:
   Mayor                  $3,000.00 per year
   City Council Member      $1,800.00 per year
(Ord. No. 147, 6/8/76) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 252, 12/20/83; 388, 3/5/96; 511,
7/22/08)
§ 1-904 COMPENSATION; APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   The employees of the Municipality are to be paid the following salary and
wage rates on an hourly basis for calendar year 1991:
   Description                                    Wage
Utility Superintendent                           $   11.30 per hour
Assistant Utilities Superintendent                     $   9.90 per hour
Utilities Employee                              $   9.10 per hour
Sewer Plant Operator                           $   7.65 per hour
   Description                                    Wage
Chief of Police                                 $   9.45 per hour
Police Officer                                 $   8.70 per hour
(Ord. No. 338, 3/5/91)
ARTICLE 10. SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-1001 SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKKEEPER, MUNICIPAL BOOKKEEPER, or CITY BOOKKEEPER. The City Clerk.
   CITY. The City of Wood River, Nebraska.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
   MUNICIPAL or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Wood River, Nebraska.
   MUNICIPAL CLERK or CLERK. The City Clerk.
   MUNICIPAL TREASURER or TREASURER. The City Treasurer.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT, UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT or UTILITY
DIRECTOR. The City Utilities Director.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the City unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
(Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 1-1002 SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS; RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this City shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
and/or, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Ord. No. 533, 11/22/13)
§ 1-1003 SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS; REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this City exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Ord. No. 533, 11/22/13)
ARTICLE 11. PENAL PROVISION
§ 1-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Amended by Ord. No. 442, 12/
11/01)
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   Article
      
1.   STANDING COMMITTEES
      
2.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 2-101 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such Standing Committees as the City Council may, by ordinance or
resolution create. In the event of a vacancy on the City Council, the
membership of such Standing Committees may be changed by the Mayor. The members
of the Standing Committees shall serve a term of office of one (1) year.
(Amended by Ord. No. 442, 12/11/01)
ARTICLE 2. COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 2-201 LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Library Board shall be appointed or elected. At the first (1st) regular
meeting of the Governing Body in January of each even numbered year the
Governing Body shall, by ordinance, adopt the manner in which the five (5)
members of the Board are to be chosen. If the members are to be chosen by
appointment, the nominated members must receive a majority vote of the
Governing Body. If the members are to be elected, the usual election procedures
of the Municipality shall be followed. The Board shall consist of five (5)
members who shall be residents of the Municipality. The members of the Library
Board shall serve a four (4) year term of office as specified by Nebraska
Statutes. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in
the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution
of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties. At the time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in June of each year,
the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a chairman and
secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman,
or any three (3) members of the Board. The Library Board shall have the
authority to appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be the duty
of the Board to have general charge of the Municipal Library and to establish
appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the
same. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the
library including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Governing Body may designate from time to time. No member of the Governing
Body shall serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of
office as a member of the Governing Body. No member of the Library Board shall
serve in the capacity of both the chairman and secretary of the Board. (Ref.
51-202 RS Neb.)
§ 2-202 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist of
four (4) members who are residents of the Municipality. The members of the
Board shall include the Mayor, who shall serve as chairman; the Police Chief,
who shall serve as secretary and quarantine officer; a physician who resides in
the Municipality shall serve as the medical advisor; and the President of the
City Council. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation, a one
(1) year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first
(1st) meeting in June of each year. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health shall be funded by the
Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board
shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings
may be held upon the call of the chairman, or any two (2) members of the Board.
It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and regulations which shall
have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the residents
of the Municipality. Included in the duties of the Board shall be to enforce
the said rules and regulations, and to provide fines and punishments for any
violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of
nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the State of Nebraska and
ordinances of the Municipality relating to matters of sanitation which affect
the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such
premises and businesses as the Governing Body may direct. All members of the
Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other
duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. No member of
the Board of Health shall hold more than one (1) Board of Health position.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 2-203 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Governing Body shall appoint five (5) persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One (1)
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a five
(5) year term of office or until his successor is duly appointed; Provided,
that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. A certificate of
the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his services, but he shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including
travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his duties. Three (3) Commissioners
shall constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its
business, exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be
taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners
present unless in any case the by-laws of the Authority shall require a larger
number. The Commissioners shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among
the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive director who
shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also
employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law officer of the
Municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ technical
experts and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may require and
shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of
office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents
or employees as it may deem proper. During his tenure, and for one (1) year
thereafter, no commissioner, officer, or employee of the Municipal Housing
Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any
project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project,
or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any
such commissioner, officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such
interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to
appointment or employment as commissioner, officer, or employee, he shall
immediately disclose his interest in writing to the Authority, and such
disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he shall not
participate in any action by the Authority relating to the property or contract
in which he has any such interest; Provided, that nothing herein shall apply to
the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor
may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the
manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him. Unless within ten (10) days from the receipt of such notice, such
Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the Governing
Body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a request for
a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the Governing Body of the Municipality shall
hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in
person or by counsel and the Governing Body shall determine whether the removal
shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner
shall continue to hold his position.
   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities
and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to the
Governing Body on all such information. (Ref. 71-1524 thru 71-1526, 71-1552 RS
Neb.)
§ 2-204 HOUSING AUTHORITY; CONTINUED EXISTENCE.
   The Municipal Housing Authority established under State law prior to
December 25, 1969, shall have continued existence after that date under the
Nebraska Housing Authority Law. All Commissioners of such Authority and all
officers, legal counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or
employees of such authority, holding office or employment by virtue of prior
State law on December 25, 1969, shall be deemed to have been appointed or
employed by the Mayor under the provisions of the Nebraska Housing Authority
Law and shall from that date forward conduct their operations consistent with
the provisions of that Act. (Ref. 71-1527 RS Neb.)
§ 2-205 HOUSING AUTHORITY; DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the definitions and terms set out
in the Nebraska Statutes relating to Housing Authorities under the Nebraska
Housing Authority Law are hereby adopted by reference as they now exist or may
hereafter be amended. (Ref. 71-1522 RS Neb.)
§ 2-206 SENIOR CITIZENS BOARD.
   The Mayor shall appoint a Senior Citizens Board which shall consist of six
(6) members. The members of the Board shall include at least two (2) senior
citizens from the Wood River area who have demonstrated an interest in senior
citizen activities; the remaining members shall be from the Wood River area
comprised of people who are active in senior citizens activities but not
necessarily senior citizens.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation for a four (4)
year term of office and shall be eligible to succeed themselves for one (1)
additional four (4) year term; Provided, the Mayor shall appoint three (3)
members of the initial Board to serve a four (4) year term and three (3)
members to serve for a two (2) year term. Thereafter, members of the Senior
Citizens Board shall be appointed for a full four (4) year term in office or
the remaining unexpired term of their predecessor in office. The members of the
Senior Citizens Board shall elect a Chairman and Secretary and provide full
minutes and records of all meetings to be placed on file with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman or any
three (3) members of the Board.
   The Senior Citizens Board shall be funded by the Governing Body from time to
time out of the general fund. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules
and regulations governing the use of the building in which the Wood River
Senior Citizens Center is located, said rules and regulations to have the full
force and effect of law.
   All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of
the Governing Body. (Ord. No. 179, 2/13/79; Amended by Ord. No. 211, 1/20/81)
§ 2-207 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   The Mayor shall appoint five (5) persons whose appointment shall be approved
by the City Council to serve as the Park and Recreation Board. Each Board
member shall serve a two (2) year term of office or until his successor is duly
appointed; Provided, that vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by
appointment of the Mayor and concurrence of the City Council. A member of the
Board shall receive no compensation for his services. The Mayor shall appoint
the members of the Board at the organizational meeting of the City Council at
the first (1st) regular meeting dated December following an election of City
Council members.
   The members of the Park and Recreation Board shall elect a Chairman and
Secretary from their members. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with
the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection within
a reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as its
members may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairman or any three (3) members of the Board.
   The Board shall be charged with the supervision of the parks within the
Municipality to include maintenance of the grounds and scheduling of organized
activities. The operations of the Board shall be funded by the Governing Body
from time to time out of the general fund. It shall be the duty of the Board to
present a budget to the Mayor and City Council for approval. Once the Park and
Recreation Board budget has been approved by the City Council, expenditures
within the budget guideline shall be paid by the City Clerk Treasurer upon
direction of a majority of the Park and Recreation Board members.
   All actions of the Board shall be subject to review and supervision of the
Mayor and City Council of the City of Wood River. (Ord. No. 206, 12/9/80)
§ 2-208 NATURAL GAS BOARD.
   There is hereby created, established and constituted a City of Wood River
Natural Gas Board, which shall consist of seven (7) members, each of whom shall
be a resident of the municipality, or be served by the natural gas supplier to
the City of Wood River. Members of the Board shall receive no pay or
compensation for serving as a member of the Board. Members of the Board shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval of the Council. (Ord.
No. 306, 4/4/89)
§ 2-209 NATURAL GAS BOARD; DUTIES; POWERS.
   1.   The Board shall have the duties of reviewing, studying, analyzing,
investigating, examining, researching, inquiring, scrutinizing any and all
reports issued by the natural gas supplier to the City of Wood River, Nebraska,
the Nebraska League of Municipalities, the Nebraska Power Pool, or other expert
consultants. After completing their investigation, study and review, the Board
shall make its findings, conclusion and recommendation in a final written
report indicating the feasibility of the City of Wood River, Nebraska,
acquiring its own municipal gas distribution system. After completion of said
report, the Board shall submit the same to the Mayor and City Council.
   2.   The Board shall have the following powers:
      a.   To obtain on behalf of the City of Wood River, Nebraska, documents,
reports, consultant statements, rates, operating statements and other relevant
information the Board deems advisable in its review, examination and
investigation relating to natural gas.
      b.    To interview, question, inquire and otherwise obtain explanation
from any consultant, or consultant's reporting agency relating to natural gas.
      c.   To request approval of the Wood River City Council in advance for
expenses to be incurred by the Board or its members in the same fashion as
reimbursements are made to the Mayor and City Council provided the requests for
reimbursement is made at least 10 days prior to the actual date of anticipated
expenditure. (Ord. No. 306, 4/4/89)
§ 2-210 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   The City hereby creates the Community Development Agency of the City
of Wood River, Nebraska with all the rights and obligations provided for
community development agencies in the Nebraska Community Redevelopment Law,
section 18-2101 et seq. RS Neb. (the Act). The Agency shall consist of the
Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The Agency hereby created shall function under the direction of the
Mayor and City Council and shall exercise the powers herein described or
referred to and as determined by resolution or ordinance duly adopted from time
to time by the Agency.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to implement this section.
   (D)   The Agency shall exercise all rights and powers granted to community
development agencies pursuant to the Act. (Ord. No. 489, 1/17/06)
§ 2-211 BOARD OF PUBLIC TRUST.
   There is hereby created, established and constituted a City of Wood River
Board of Public Trust which shall consist of five (5) members, each of whom
shall be a resident of the Municipality. Members of the Board shall receive no
pay or compensation for serving as a member of the Board. Members of the Board
shall be elected and named by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 529, 11/6/12)
§ 2-212 BOARD OF PUBLIC TRUST; DUTIES, POWERS.
   The Board of Public Trust shall have control and management of donations in
trust that may be received by it and shall supervise and regulate such
donations and property constituting the public trust, including principal and
income constituting the foundation or community trust property in conformity
with the instrument or instruments creating such gifts or donations. At least
annually, the Board shall submit a report to the Mayor and City Council setting
forth property constituting the principal and income of the Board of Public
Trust, together with a summary of receipts and disbursements for the previous
calendar year. The Board shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To obtain and receive on behalf of the City of Wood River, Nebraska,
donations acquired by gift or devise of real or personal property in trust;
   (B)   To manage, supervise and regulate such property received in public
trust in a manner consistent with the instrument or instruments creating such
trust or donation.
(Ord. No. 529, 11/6/12)
§ 2-213 BOARD OF PUBLIC TRUST; MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board of Public Trust shall be elected by the City Council of
the City of Wood River, Nebraska, and at the time of establishment of the Board
of Public Trust, one (1) member shall be elected for a term of one (1) year,
one (1) member shall be elected for a term of two (2) years, one (1) member
shall be elected for a term of three (3) years, one (1) member shall be elected
for a term of (4) four years, and one (1) member shall be elected for a term of
five (5) years. Thereafter, one (1) member shall be elected each year for a
term of five (5) years. Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be
filled in like manner as regular members of the Board are elected.
(Ord. No. 529, 11/6/12)
ARTICLE 3. PENAL PROVISION
§ 2-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
   Article
      
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
4.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
5.   PARKS
      
6.   LIBRARY
      
7.   LANDFILL
      
8.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
9.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
10.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-101 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 17-
531, 17-534, 19-1305 RS Neb.)
§ 3-102 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. The term "main" is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply
or service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
dispersing the same in the Municipality.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term "supply pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term "service pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premise
where the water is to be dispersed.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. The term "separate premise" is hereby defined to be more
than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second (2nd) premise may be a separate dwelling, apartment, building, or
structure used for a separate business.
§ 3-103 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall require any applicant
requesting service to rental property or to mobile homes or trailers to make a
utilities deposit in the amount of fifty-five ($55.00) dollars which may be
applied to any and all unpaid utility bills, and the Clerk may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
Governing Body and placed on file at the office of the Clerk. The Clerk shall
also collect a tap fee of one hundred ($100.00) dollars from applicants
requesting three-fourths (3/4") inch service or a tap fee of one hundred
twenty-five ($125.00) dollars from applicants requesting one (1") inch service.
An applicant requesting a second or subsequent water connection will be charged
in lieu of a tap fee as above set forth a fee equaling the cost of materials
used to make the appropriate connection. The Clerk shall then forward the
application to the Utilities Superintendent. Water may not be supplied to any
house or private service pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 210, 1/20/81)
§ 3-104 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Water Department shall not supply water service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the Governing
Body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe
shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the Municipality to provide water service to non-residents. (Ref. 17-537, 19-
2701 RS Neb.)
§ 3-105 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a Municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when, according to
law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the Municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his agent, may cut off or disconnect the water
service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building, premise, or place shall again be
made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-106 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   The Municipality shall install all water mains and supply lines from the
main to the customer's property line, including actual tapping of the main and
installation of stop cock, stop box, and corporation cock. The customer shall
then be responsible for the installation and expense of the service line from
the property line to the point of dispersement.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the consumer. All installation shall be done under the
supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
specifications prescribed for such installation by the Utilities
Superintendent; provided that the said rules, regulations, and specifications
have been reviewed and approved by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-107 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
Municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe
from the lot line to the place of dispersement. (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
§ 3-108 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his own
expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to
the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities
Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-109 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
The City Clerk, under the direction of the City Utilities Director shall bill
the consumers and collect all money received by the City on the account of the
Water Department. Water charges are provided by ordinance of the City Council
and set forth in the Appendix attached to Ordinance 550, adopted by reference
as if fully set forth herein. (Ref. 17-540 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 550,
3/7/17)
§ 3-110 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utility Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the
customer shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again. The rates to be charged for consumers and customers shall be
adopted by ordinance and the Table of Rates then currently in effect shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk. (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 149, 9/7/76; 187, 8/15/79; 202, 8/19/80; 219, 9/22/81; 330, 9/18/90;
342, 10/8/91; 353, 7/20/93; 452, 12/3/02; 505, 11/20/07; 506, 11/20/07)
§ 3-111 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
    Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk as provided by § 3-903. (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-112 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on
the first (1st) day of June of each year to report to the Governing Body a list
of all unpaid accounts due for water together with a description of the premise
upon which the same was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by
the Governing Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-
538 RS Neb.)
§ 3-113 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-114 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE; RIGHT OF CITY TO SHUT OFF
WATER; RIGHT OF CHARGING A RECONNECTION FEE.
   The City Council, recognizing the need and desirability of conserving the
City water supply, hereby adopts the following restrictions for the use of
water from the City water system for fountains, or for sprinkling yards, lawns,
and gardens:
   (A)   The City Council hereby authorizes the Mayor to declare a water
emergency in the event the City water supply becomes a threat to public safety,
during which water emergency all outside watering shall be suspended or
restricted by proclamation of the Mayor.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of a proclamation of water
restrictions, residents residing within the City whose house street numbers end
in an odd number shall be allowed to use the City water supply for the purpose
of fountains, sprinkling yards, lawns and gardens only on odd-numbered days of
the month from 5:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. and between 5:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of a proclamation of water
restrictions, residents whose house street numbers end in an even number shall
be allowed to use the City water supply for the purpose of fountains,
sprinkling yards, lawns, and gardens only on even-numbered days of the month
from 5:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. and between 5:00 P.M. and 10:00 P.M.
   (D)   In the event of a violation of the above rules and regulations by a
patron of the City water supply system, the City Council may direct the City
Clerk to give a warning letter to the violator; subsequent violations may
result in the City Council directing the City Utilities Director to shut off
the water supply to the violator. In the event that the City water system is
shut off to the patron, a reconnect fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) must
be paid to the City Clerk for deposit for the benefit of the City Water
Department accounts. The reconnect fee shall be non-refundable.
   (E)   The City may shut off the water supply at any time, from any or all
premises, to make repairs or extensions or connections, to protect public
health or safety, for violations of this Chapter, or for failure to pay water
charges. No claim for damages shall be made against the City or Utilities
Director on account of any such shut off or on account of failure of the water
supply from any cause. The provisions of §§ 3-903 to 3-909 shall apply to water
disconnects.
   (F)   The City Clerk is authorized to remit the reconnect fee to the Water
Department and is further authorized to charge the reconnection fee to any
household or patron of the City water supply system whose service has been shut
off for violation of the use restrictions of this section.  (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 323, 6/5/90; 375, 7/25/95; 449, 8/20/02; 493, 5/2/06; 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-114.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; USE RESTRICTION; APPLICATION FOR
CONDITIONAL USE AND WAIVER OF WATERING RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council recognizing the need to allow under certain circumstances a
conditional use permit allowing deviation from the water use restrictions
provided by §
3-114 of this Code, hereby adopts the following procedure for Municipal water
patrons to apply for a limited conditional use permit and waiver of the water
restrictions identified in §
3-114 of this Code.
   (A)   Municipal water patrons may make an application for the issuance of a
temporary conditional use permit to be issued by the City Council, allowing
patrons to deviate from the Municipal water use restrictions identified in §
3-114 of this Code by written application to be submitted to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized to issue permits, allowing deviation
from the water use restrictions identified in §
3-114 of this Code for applicants demonstrating a sufficient hardship need and
circumstances in which an applicant can demonstrate to the City Council that
deviation from the restrictions is necessary for a limited time to supply a
limited amount of water to a lawn or garden in circumstances where a yard has
recently been or is about to be re-seeded, and requires watering on consecutive
days for a limited time to allow germination and sprouting of lawn seed, or in
circumstances where a patron can demonstrate watering of a garden under limited
conditions will result in a more efficient use of the Municipal water through
limited daily sprinkling, rather than every-other-day watering.
   (C)   The City Council hereby authorizes the City Clerk and Utility
Superintendent to accept written applications for conditional permits
authorizing waiver of the watering restrictions identified in §
3-114 of this Code; upon the filing of a request for waiver and conditional use
permit by a Municipal water patron, the filed written application for permit to
deviate from the watering restrictions of §
3-114 of this Code shall be submitted at the next regular meeting of the City
Council. The City Council shall review the application and may grant a
conditional use permit that would authorize the Municipal water patron to
deviate from the water use restrictions of §
3-114 of this Code, provided said permit is limited as to a specific time
limitation, or a specific quantity or use limitation during the same period.
   (D)   In instances where a conditional use permit has been issued to a
Municipal water patron, and the patron violates the additional use permit, said
violation will be deemed to be a violation of §
3-114 of this Code, and the same penalties and procedures may then be
applicable to a Municipal water patron as if the conditional use permit had not
been issued. (Ord. No. 455, 4/22/03)
§ 3-115 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-116 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Ref. 17-536 RS Neb.)
§ 3-117 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons residing in property located within the corporate limits and
abutting or adjacent to water mains now in existence, or hereafter laid, shall
be required, upon notice by the Governing Body, to hook-up with the Municipal
Water System. (Ref. 17-539 RS Neb.)
§ 3-118 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premise. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he shall be charged for all water used on the said premise until
the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref.
17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-119 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his duly authorized agents, shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building to,
or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-120 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Police or contract law enforcement entity
to report to the Utilities Director all cases of leakage and waste in the use
of water and all violations of the City Code relating to the Water Department.
They shall have the additional duly of enforcing the observance of all such
regulations. (Amended by Ord. No. 233, 10/22/13)
§ 3-121 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-122 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the said system until such plumber or pipefitter shall have first procured
a license or permit from the Municipality. All plumbing shall be done in the
manner required by the Utilities Superintendent. The said licensed plumber
shall be at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the Utilities
Superintendent and it shall be further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully
any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-123 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the
Utilities Superintendent, Municipal Bookkeeper, or Municipal Clerk may appear
before the Governing Body and present his grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
water, or for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been
shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the Municipal
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, "Paid Under
Protest." Such consumer may then present his verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the Governing Body for a refund of the amount
so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the Governing
Body in the same manner as other claims against the Municipality.
§ 3-124 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; PROHIBITION AGAINST FLUORIDE.
   The City of Wood River, Nebraska shall be prohibited from adding fluoride to
the Municipal water supply for human consumption. (Ord. No. 185, 7/17/79)
(Amended by Ord. No. 514, 12/16/08)
[Editor's Note: Sections 3-125 through 3-137 were enacted by Ordinance No. 351,
passed 12/8/92]
§ 3-125 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
PURPOSE; PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY FROM CONTAMINATION OR POLLUTION.
   The general policy of the City of Wood River, Nebraska, is to protect the
public potable water supply served by the City Water Department from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating, within its customer's
internal distribution system, such contaminant or pollutants which could
backflow or back-siphon into the public water supply system. It is further the
policy of the City of Wood River to promote the elimination or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between its customers in-plant
potable water system, and non-potable systems, to provide for the maintenance
of a continuing program of cross connection control which will effectively
prevent the contamination or pollution of all potable water systems by cross
connection.
§ 3-126 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
RESPONSIBILITY; NOTICE OF INSTALLATION; UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Water Department of the City of Wood River shall be
responsible for the protection of the public potable water distribution system
from contamination or pollution due to the backflow or back-siphonage of
contaminants or pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Utilities Superintendent, an approved backflow is required at
the City's water service connection to any customer's premises, the
Superintendent, or his delegated agent, shall give notice in writing to said
customer to install an approved backflow prevention device at each service
connection to his premises. The customer shall, within 90 days, install such
approved device, or devices at his own expense and failure or refusal, or
inability on the part of the customer to install said device or devices within
90 days, shall constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been properly installed.
§ 3-127 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any premises
where actual or potential cross connections to the public potable or consumer's
water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross connections are
abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water Department, and
as required by the laws and regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health.
   No connections shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary water
supply may enter a public potable or consumer's water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Municipal Water Department and the Nebraska
Department of Health.
   No water service shall be installed or maintained to any premises in which
the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been constructed and
installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the Municipal Water
Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety. For purposes
of this section, the determination by the Utilities Superintendent of the City
of Wood River, Nebraska, shall be binding upon the Municipal Water Department.
§ 3-128 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct or cause to
be conducted, periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises as
necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections
in the consumer's water supply system. The Municipal Water Department shall
have the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys and
investigations, of a frequency as determined by the Water Department, of water
use practices within a consumer's premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross connections to the consumer's water supply system
through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public water
supply system. The Municipal Water Department may conduct these surveys to
provide information in determining what level of protection will be necessary
to protect the public health and safety.
   On request by the Municipal Water Department, the Utilities Superintendent
or his authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information on
water use practices within his premises.
§ 3-129 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed in the service
connection line to a consumer's water system or within any premises where, in
the judgment of the Utilities Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to
the public potable water system exists. The type and degree of hazard
protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard situation
set forth by the State Health Department Regulations.
   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department, the nature
and extent of activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection
with the activities or materials stored on the premises, would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross connection occur, even
though such cross connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention
device is required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following situations:
   a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary is acceptable to the Municipal Water Department.
   b.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross connections exist.
   c.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that it back-siphonage or back pressure should occur, a serious health
hazard may result.
§ 3-130 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL; TYPE
OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this ordinance shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists, as follows:
   a.   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   b.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow device shall be installed where the public potable water
system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a health hazard.
   c.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
   An approved antisiphon vacuum breaker may be used as a backflow prevention
device where it is not subjected to back pressures. This device shall not be
used for applications where water flow is expected to be continuous for twelve
(12) or more hours. The device shall be installed ahead of the potential source
of contamination on the discharge side of the last control valve. It shall be
placed at least 18" above the highest point reached by any water passing
through the potential source of contamination. Typically this type of device is
used for such equipment as lawn sprinklers, water-cooled compressors, or other
water cooled equipment.
§ 3-131 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by this ordinance shall be installed
at a location and in a manner approved by the Municipal Water Department. The
consumer, at his sole expense, shall obtain and install said approved backflow
prevention device(s) within 90 days of notice and as directed by the Municipal
Water Department.
   Any backflow prevention device required by this ordinance shall be a model
or construction approved by the Municipal Water Department.
   1.   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least double the diameter
of the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel,
but in no case less than one (1") inch.
   2.   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be approved by the Municipal Water Department and
installed by a licensed plumber.
§ 3-132 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK-FLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
BOOSTER PUMPS.
   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) pounds per square
inch gauge or less.
   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low pressure cut-
off device in proper working order.
§ 3-133 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK-FLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
YARD HYDRANTS.
   The installation of yard hydrants where water is available or accessible for
drinking or culinary purposes and which have drip openings below ground
surface, is prohibited unless such hydrants are equipped with an approved
device to prevent entrance of ground water into chambers connected with the
water supply.
   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which would be used by the consumer to provide
water to mix pesticides, fertilizer, or other chemicals, for direct use or
aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an antisiphon vacuum
breaker. (Amended by Ord. No. 391, 5/21/96)
§ 3-134 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK-FLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
   All proposed installations of fire suppression systems shall be reviewed by
the Municipal Water Department to determine the appropriate type of backflow
prevention device(s) required. All proposed fire suppression systems requiring
an antifreeze solution shall use a pharmaceutical grade antifreeze. The
consumer shall provide to the Municipal Water Department a certification
identifying the type of pharmaceutical grade antifreeze which shall be used. A
double check valve backflow prevention device shall be installed in an approved
manner.
   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all proposed
fire suppressions systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be done only
when there are no cross connections.
   All existing fire suppressions systems shall meet the requirements of the
immediately preceding two paragraphs, whichever applies. An inspection by a
certified fire suppression specialist shall be done to determine whether a
pharmaceutical grade antifreeze has been utilized. This shall be done at the
expense of the consumer. If it cannot be certified that only pharmaceutical
grade antifreezes have been used, then a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed as approved by the Municipal Water
Department. This also shall be done at the expense of the consumer.
   In the event cross connections, such as those found in using auxiliary water
supply systems or in providing other water additives such as foaming agents are
necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppressions system, then a
reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be installed in an
approved manner.
§ 3-135 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK-FLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; INSTALLATION.
   Backflow prevention devices required by this ordinance to be installed in an
existing facility shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by
the Municipal Water Department and shall be installed at the expense of the
water consumer.
   Backflow prevention devices required by this ordinance to be installed in a
facility not in existence at the time of this ordinance shall be installed at a
location and in a manner and of the type approved by the Municipal Water
Department and shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily accessible
for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
§ 3-136 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
PERIODIC TESTING; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The water consumer shall certify to the Municipal Water Department at least
one time annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a
Nebraska Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device
is equipped with a test port such certification shall be made on a form
available at the office of the Municipal Water Department. This testing will be
done at the water consumer's expense. Records of testing on any backflow
prevention device will be forwarded to the Municipal Water Department.
   Reduced principle pressure backflow devices shall be tested and inspected
yearly.
   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be repaired
or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the repair, the
device will be retested at the water consumer's expense to insure correct
operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue unprotected
if the backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately.
§ 3-137 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL;
ENFORCEMENT; FAILURE TO COMPLY, DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Municipal Water Department of the City of Wood River shall deny or
discontinue, after notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein:
   a.   Any backflow prevention device required by ordinance is not installed
or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Water Department;
   b.   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or by-
passed;
   c.   An unprotected cross connection exists on the premises;
   d.   The Water Department is denied entry to determine compliance with these
regulations.
   The Water Department shall immediately deny or discontinue, without notice
to the consumer thereof, the water service to any premise wherein a severe
cross connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the safety of
the public water system. The Water Department shall notify the consumer within
24 hours of said denial or discontinuation of service.
   Water service to such premises as described above, shall not be restored
until the consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in
conformance with the ordinances of the City of
Wood River, Nebraska, and to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent
or his designated representative.
§ 3-138 WATER WELLS; WATER CONTROL AREA.
   (1)   A Water Control Area is hereby established to encompass all real
estate falling within the corporate limits of the City, and within the
territory beyond said corporate limits as now or hereafter fixed, for a
distance of one (1) mile, as established on the map entitled "The Official
Zoning Map of the City of Wood River, Nebraska", and as may be amended by
subsequent annexation. Said area shall hereinafter be referred to as the Water
Control Area.
   (2)   An official map of the above described Water Control Area shall be and
the same is hereby ordered to be created and maintained and completed in
accordance with this section and be on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
   (3)   Persons desiring to drill private water wells within the Water Control
Area shall apply for a permit upon forms to be maintained in the office of the
Municipal Clerk prior to drilling such private water wells. Upon completion of
the application for permit and approval of the permit by the City Council and
payment of an application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), the City Clerk shall
issue a construction well drilling permit provided the proposed private well is
located a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from an existing municipal well
and provided further that such private well shall be constructed to assure an
effective backflow prevention device.
   (4)   It shall be the duty of the owner or owners of real estate within the
Water Control Area to file with the Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the
Clerk setting forth the location of any private well and the date of said
drilling and a statement under oath that the private well has been constructed
according to standards set forth in this section and that said well has not
been connected to any water supply system used for delivery of municipal water.
   (5)   Any owner or owners of real estate or tenants in possession of real
estate within the Water Control Area who shall fail to comply with the
construction standards, application or payment of fees as required by this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars. Each and every day that a
violation of this section shall continue shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable according to the penalties set forth
in this section.
   (6)   In addition to the above and foregoing penalties, the City shall have
the authority to declare any private well drilled within the above described
area that fails to meet the requirements of this section to be deemed and
declared a public nuisance and shall have power to request a court of competent
jurisdiction to order abatement of said nuisance. (Ord. No. 407, 5/5/98; 482,
11/2/04)
§ 3-139 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METER INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE; RIGHT
OF CITY TO SHUT OFF WATER FOR VIOLATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS REGARDING
METERS; RE-CONNECTION FEE CHARGE FOR VIOLATION OF RULES.
   The City Council, recognizing the need and desirability of conserving the
municipal water supply, and the need to equitably distribute the costs of
maintaining and operating the municipal water system has caused or will cause
to be installed on all water services within the municipality a standard water
meter approved by the Utility Superintendent. The cost of such meters shall
initially be borne by the City until the change over to meter services is
complete; thereafter new water services shall be installed at the expense of
the customer. All work, repairs, and removals of such meters shall be done
under the supervision and direction of the Utility Superintendent and in such
case the owner or customer shall pay to the City the actual cost for such
repairs, and upon failing to do so, the Utility Superintendent may cause the
water to be cut off from such premises. The City Council hereby adopts the
following rules, regulations and restrictions for meter maintenance,
installation and inspection and use of water from the municipal system.
   (A)   Customers shall grant ready and convenient access to City personnel or
their designated representative to the meter for purposes of installation,
removal, maintenance, inspection and reading. All water furnished through the
waterworks system of the City shall be furnished as meter rates.
   (B)   Customers shall provide heat necessary to keep the meter from freezing
and any protection required to keep the meter from being damaged. Customer
shall not tamper with meters. Customers will be held responsible and will be
required to pay the City for all costs to replace or repair damaged meters.
   (C)   Should any water meter get out of order or repair and fail to register
properly, the customer shall be charged at the average monthly consumption, as
shown by the meter when in order, for six (6) months previous, or fraction
thereof, if the same has not been used that long.
   (D)   All water and meter rates shall be charged to and collected from the
owner of the premises served and the same shall be a lien on such premises and
real estate where used, and may be collected by the City at any time after the
same becomes due by civil action in the courts. The Utilities Superintendent
may report the names of owners of any premises served with water that are
delinquent in the payment of their water bills or charges, showing the amount
due from each delinquent, together with a description of the property upon, or
for which the water has been supplied, and thereupon the City Council shall, by
resolution, direct the City Clerk to file with the City Treasurer a certified
copy of such report and resolution, directing that the amount assessed against
the different premises, as shown by such report, be placed upon the assessment
rolls and tax books of the City for collection as other taxes.
   (E)   No person may connect any temporary service pipe to the City water
mains or distribution lines without the approval of the Utilities
Superintendent. Persons wishing to make a temporary service pipe connection
shall file a written request for such connection with the Utilities
Superintendent, specifying the connection desired to be made, giving the number
of feet of service pipe required, a diagram of the premises and equipment to be
served, and an estimate as to the duration of the temporary service pipe
connection. The director may, at his or her discretion, approve the temporary
service pipe connection which shall be done at the expense of the applicant and
under the supervision of the Director. Such temporary service pipe shall at all
times be under the absolute control and supervision of the Utilities
Superintendent, and the City reserves the right to disconnect the temporary
service pipe at any time there is reasonable cause to believe the applicant is
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the temporary connection
permit or is jeopardizing either the City water system or the qualify of water
in the premises or equipment being served. The temporary service pipe permit
shall expire at the earliest of either the applicant's estimated time of
duration or the connection of the premises or equipment to an approved
permanent service line. The applicant may obtain an extension of time on the
temporary service pipe permit for good cause shown to the Director.
   (F)   All persons abandoning any water service pipe shall have a license
plumber turn off the line at the water main tap and shall cut and crimp the
service pipe as close as possible to, not to exceed one (1) foot from, the tap.
The City Utilities Superintendent shall be notified whenever a service pipe is
abandoned and shall be permitted to inspect and approve all work done in
connection with such abandonment. Any person failing to abandon a service pipe
in compliance with this section shall be guilty of a violation of this Code and
shall pay the City Water Department for the costs of properly shutting off,
closing or crimping any adandoned service pipe and shall be liable for any
damages to municipal property caused by the improperly abandoned service pipe.
The Utilities Superintendent may approve alternate means of closing and
abandoning service pipes upon request if the foregoing procedure is
impractical.
   (G)   In the event of the violation of the above rules and regulations by a
patron of the municipal water supply system, the City may direct the City Clerk
to give a warning letter to the violator and in the event the violator fails to
pay the replacement or repair costs for damage to a meter for which the
customer is responsible, the City Clerk is authorized to give a warning letter
to the customer violating the rule and the Utility Superintendent is authorized
to shut off the water supply to the violator. In the event that the municipal
water system is shut off to the customer, a reconnection fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) must be paid to the City through the Clerk's Office for
deposit to the benefit of the City Water Department Accounts. Said re-connect
fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (H)   The City may shut off the water supply at any time, from any or all
premises, to make repairs or extensions or connections or for installation,
maintenance and supervision of water meters, or for violations of this section.
No claim for damages shall be made against the City or Utility Superintendent
on account of any such shut off or on account of failure of the water meter.
   (I)   The City Clerk is authorized to remit the re-connect fee to the Water
Department and is further authorized to charge the re-connection fee to any
household or patron or customer of the municipal water supply system whose
service has been shut off for violation of the rules and regulations regarding
the installation and inspection and maintenance of water meters. (Ord. No. 515,
1/20/09)
ARTICLE 2. SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-201 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management and maintenance of the Municipal Sewer System may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-149, 17-
925.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-202 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The term "Biological Oxygen Demand" (BOD) shall
mean and include the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation
of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at
twenty (20) degrees C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The term "Building Drain" shall mean and include that part
of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the
discharge from soil, waste, or other drainage pipes inside the walls of the
building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five (5) feet (1.5
meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The term "Building Sewer" shall mean the extension from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. The term "Combined Sewer" shall mean a sewer receiving both
surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and
commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling,
storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The term "Industrial Wastes" shall mean the liquid wastes
from industrial manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. The term "Natural Outlet" shall mean any outlet into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. The term "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, or group.
   pH. The term "pH" shall mean and include the logarithm of the reciprocal of
the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The term "Properly Shredded Garbage" shall mean
the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been
shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one half (1/2") inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The term "Public Sewer" shall mean a sewer in which all owners
of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public
authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" shall mean and include a sewer
which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" shall mean and include a combination of the water-
carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions, and
industrial establishments together with such ground, surface, and storm waters
as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The term "Sewage Treatment Plant" shall mean any
arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The term "Sewage Works" shall mean all facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. The term "Sewer" shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The term "Shall" is mandatory; the term "May" is permissive.
   SLUG. The term "Slug" shall mean any discharge of water, sewage, or
industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity
of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes
more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration or
flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. The term "Storm Drain" (sometimes termed "Storm Sewer") shall
mean an include a sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The term "Suspended Solids" shall mean and include solids
that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or
other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. The term "Watercourse" shall mean a natural or artificial
channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
(Amended by Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-203 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
Governing Body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk,
including the Utilities deposit as required in §
3-103 of this Chapter. The Clerk shall then forward the application to the
Utilities Superintendent. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or
building except upon the written order of the Utilities Superintendent. (Ref.
17-149 RS Neb.)
§ 3-204 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Sewer Department shall not supply sewer service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the Governing
Body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges
shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the Municipality to provide sewer service to non-residents. (Ref. 19-2701 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-205 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
Municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premise of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premise shall again be made save or except by order of the
Utilities Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-206 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Utilities Superintendent the property owner,
occupant, or lessee of any premise opposite or abutting any main or lateral
sanitary sewer or Municipal water main shall without delay cause the said
building to be connected with the Sewer System and equipped with inside
sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with
the Sewer System at the time of its construction. In the event that any
property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse, within a
period of ten (10) days after notice has been given to him to do so by
registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation
in the Municipality, to make such connection, the Governing Body shall have the
power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the
property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for
collection of other special taxes and assessments. (Ref. 17-149, 17-149.01 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-207 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two (2) or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one (1) pipe.
§ 3-208 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premise. If the customer should fail to
give notice, he shall be charged for that period of time until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
§ 3-209 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
3-209.1 through
3-209.8 shall be to provide sufficient revenue for payment of the costs
relative to the City's sewage treatment and collection facilities. Costs to be
provided for include operation and maintenance, bond retirement, and equipment
replacement reserves. All costs shall be distributed equitably to all users of
the wastewater system. (Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.1 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; CLASSIFICATION OF
CONSUMERS.
   Any person whose premises are served by the sewerage system, including
tenants of the premises connected thereto, who in any way use same or discharge
or otherwise contribute to the sewage, directly or indirectly, shall hereafter
be designated as "user" and shall be classified as follows.
   (A)   Residential user: Which term as herein used includes such users whose
premises is used exclusively for residential purposes by no more than two (2)
families.
   (B)   Commercial user: When term includes all other users not previously
herein classified, except concerns depositing industrial wastes.
   (C)   Industrial user: Which term herein used includes such users who
deposit industrial wastes into the sewerage system including the following
divisions of industries as identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented.
      (1)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B. Mining;
      (3)   Division D. Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services;
      (5)   Division I. Services. (Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.2 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; DETERMINATION OF SEWER
USE CHARGES.
   (A)   Residential users served by the sewerage system shall pay the charges
provided for by ordinance of the City Council and set out herein in Appendix
attached to Ordinance 550. Sewer charge shall be based on water consumed
annually during the months of December, January, and February. One-third (1/3)
of that charge will be billed monthly, starting with the bill mailed on or
about the 1st day of March. In the case of multiple dwelling units or trailer
courts served by a single meter, the rate shall be the same as for residential
units served by said meter; provided, the charge for sewer service shall be
computed by taking the one-third (1/3) of the winter use divided by the number
of units that have used any quantity of water during the quarter. In the case
where the average water use cannot be determined the minimum rate for water use
shall be based on six thousand (6,000) gallons of water usage per month. The
sewage contribution of a new residential user either within or without the
corporate limits of the City with no established first (1st) quarter water
record shall be based on the minimum charge until such time as the base
contribution of sewage is determined.
   (B)   Commercial users served by the sewage system shall pay the charges
provided by ordinance of the City Council and set out herein in Appendix
attached to Ordinance 550. Sewer charge shall be based on water consumed as
described in the division (A) above. One-third (1/3) of that charge will be
billed monthly, starting with the bill mailed on or about the 1st day of March.
   (C)   Industrial users contributing domestic and/or process waste to the
sewerage system shall pay the charges provided by ordinance of the City Council
and set out herein in Appendix attached to
Ordinance 550. Sewer use charge shall be based on metered water consumed as
described in the division (A) above. One-third (1/3) of that charge will be
billed monthly, starting with the bill mailed on or about the 1st day of March.
In cases where BOD, suspended solids and contributing flow are known to exceed
average wastewater flow the rate may be adjusted based on the following
calculation.
         A = (1/3)C(Vu) + (1/3)C(Su) + (1/3)C(Bu)
            V       S       B
Where:
   A    = Amount Owed by Industrial User for Sewage Treatment and Collection
   C    = Total Sewage Treatment Collection Expense for the Year
   Vu   = Volume of Flow from Industrial User (Gallons)
   V    = Total Volume of Flow to Sewer System (Gallons)
   Su   = Suspended Solids from Industrial User (Pounds)
   S    = Total Suspended Solids to Sewer System (Pounds)
   Bu    = BOD from Industrial User (Pounds)
   B    = Total Bed to Sewer System (Pounds)
Obtaining and analyzing sewage samples for use in determining the industrial
sewer use charge to be billed against a given industrial user shall be the
responsibility of the City and performed according to §
3-241 of this Article.
   (D)   Sewage disposal at the treatment plant. All sewage that is transported
by truck or any vehicle to the plant for disposal shall pay the charges
provided for by ordinance of the City Council and set out herein in Appendix
attached to Ordinance 550. (Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. 522, 4/5/11) (Amended by
Ord. No. 550, 3/7/17)
§ 3-209.3 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If the concentration of the sewage from any user, except those subject
to industrial limits and charges, exceeds the level of 250 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l suspended solids, they shall be subject to a surcharge based on the highest
concentration of contaminant sampled during the billing period. Any industrial
user which discharges an amount of flow, BOD, or suspended solids in excess of
their allocated industrial capacity as documented in letters of intent
submitted to the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control and the U. S.
Environmental Protection Agency (or the limits above) shall be subject to a
surcharge based on the highest concentration of contaminant sampled during the
billing period.
   (B)   The surcharges shall be as provided by ordinance of the City Council
and set out herein in Appendix attached to Ordinance 550.
   (C)   If the experienced additional cost associated with high strength
wastes are not recovered by the industrial rate charges or above surcharges,
the City shall have the option to review the effect any user (all
classifications) has on the wastewater system and establish a higher rate, if
necessary, for the excessive amount of BOD, SS, or other applicable pollutants.
   (D)   Any user who violates the limitations of this section or discharges a
contaminate that proves detrimental to the proper operation of the sewage
treatment facilities shall be liable for its proportionate share of any and all
fines and penalties assessed against the City as a result of such violation.
(Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11) (Amended by Ord. No. 550, 3/7/17)
§ 3-209.4 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; TOXIC WASTES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the City's treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
(Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.5 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; COLLECTION OF SEWER
USE CHARGES.
   The sewer use charges prescribed by this Article shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner and by the same officers as water charges are
collected by the City. (Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.6 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; SERVICE OUTSIDE THE
CITY.
   For connection with and service by the Municipal sewerage system, each user
outside the City shall pay a sewer use charge as prescribed in §
3-209.1. Connections with such systems outside the corporate limits of the City
may be made only when permission therefor is granted by the City. (Ref 16-681,
19-2701 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.7 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; USE OF WATER METERS TO
DETERMINE CHARGES; PROVISION WHEN METER DEFECTIVE; PROVISION AS TO UN-METERED
WATER.
   (A)   The sewer use charges pursuant to this Article shall he applied
separately to each individual water meter which measures water contributing to
or discharging into the City sewerage system and shall be determined by the
water meter readings for water furnished by the water works system of the City
or by privately owned water supply which may contribute to or discharge into
the sewerage system. In the case of un-metered water supply, the quantity of
water used and discharged into the sewerage system shall be determined to the
satisfaction of the City Utilities Director at the expense of the owner of such
un-metered water supply. If the quantity of un-metered water discharged into
the sewerage system is estimated by the City Utilities Director to be in excess
of the amount permitted to be used under the minimum charge as applied to said
user, the City Utilities Director may require that such water supply be metered
at the expense of the owner or user thereof.
   (B)   Should any meter get out of order or repair and fail to register
properly, the user using such meter will be charged at the average quarterly
consumption as shown by the meter when in order for six (6) months previous or
fraction thereof if the same has not been used that long. (Ref 16-681 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 522, 4/5/11)
§ 3-209.8 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER USE CHARGES; BILLING GENERALLY;
DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE UPON NONPAYMENT OF SEWER CHARGES.
   Bills for sewer use charges pursuant to this Article shall be rendered at
the same time that bills are rendered for water service, and all sewer use
charges levied by this Article which are not paid at or before water service
charges are required to be paid, shall be deemed to be delinquent and the water
service of such user may be discontinued. (Ref. 16-681 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 522,
4/5/11)
§ 3-210 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
   The Governing Body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§ 3-211 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER RATES, COLLECTIONS.
   Sewer use fees shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk as provided by §
3-903. (Ref. 17-925.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-212 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City of Wood River or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste. (Ord. No.
153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-213 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City or
Wood River, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Article. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-214 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-215 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the City of Wood River and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City of
Wood River, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Article within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public
sewer is within one hundred (100') feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-216 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
3-215, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this Article.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
3-215, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this Article and the owner shall:
      (1)   Gravity sewer. If the installation is a gravity sewer, the owner
shall cause any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
facilities to be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or any
other method approved by the City Engineer within ninety (90) days of
connection to the public sewer.
      (2)   Forced main with a grinder pump. If the installation is a forced
main with a grinder pump service, the owner shall divert the raw wastewater to
the new grinder pump station and may leave the existing septic tank and drain
field in place for use as a backup in the event of overflow due to extended
power outages. If the existing septic system is left in place for overflow
purposes, the owner shall within ninety (90) days of the grinder pump
installation beginning operations, have the existing septic tank pumped of
waste sludge by a licensed operation and refill the tank with clean water for
long term standby. No empty septic tank shall be allowed. In the event the
owner chooses not to use the existing septic tank as an overflow backup then
any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or any other
method approved by the City Engineer within ninety (90) days of the connection
to the public sewer. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 548, 11/22/16)
§ 3-217 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City Utilities
Director. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the City Utilities Director. A
permit and inspection fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be paid to the City
at the time the application is filed. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord.
No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-218 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Director. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Utilities
Director when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty-
four (24) hours, excluding non-business days, of the receipt of notice by the
Utilities Director. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-219 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the State of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet. (Ord. No. 153,
3/8/77)
§ 3-220 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City of Wood River.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-221 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this Article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer. (Ord.
No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-222 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABILITY.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within sixty (60) days and:
   (A)   Gravity sewer. If the installation is a gravity sewer, the owner shall
cause any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
facilities to be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or any
other method approved by the City Engineer within ninety (90) days of
connection to the public sewer.
   (B)   Forced main with a grinder pump. If the installation is a forced main
with a grinder pump service, the owner shall divert the raw wastewater to the
new grinder pump station and may leave the existing septic tank and drain field
in place for use as a backup in the event of overflow due to extended power
outages. If the existing septic system is left in place for overflow purposes,
the owner shall within ninety (90) days of the grinder pump installation
beginning operations, have the existing septic tank pumped of waste sludge by a
licensed operation and refill the tank with clean water for long term standby.
No empty septic tank shall be allowed. In the event the owner chooses not to
use the existing septic tank as an overflow backup then any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or any other method approved by the
City Engineer within ninety (90) days of the connection to the public sewer.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 548, 11/22/16)
§ 3-223 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-224 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the City. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City Utilities Director. A permit and
inspection fee of fifteen ($15.00) dollars for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and fifteen ($15.00) dollars for an industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-225 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   The customer, upon approval of his application, shall be responsible for
installation of the sewer service from the main to the premises to be served
including actual tapping of the commercial main.
   The customer, in installing any new gravity flow sewer drain which will be
attached to the sewer's service line shall be required to place the drain in
such a position that it will not set lower than a maximum depth of three (3')
feet below the natural established elevation of the premises as it abuts the
public right of way, such elevation and established grade to be determined by
the Utilities Superintendent.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent may
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two (2) inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first
(1st) inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and
before the pipes are covered. The second (2nd) inspection shall be made after
the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is the customers
responsibility to notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is
ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision
and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for
such installation prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that
the said rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved
by the Governing Body. (Amended by Ord. No. 169, 11/22/77)
§ 3-226 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
of Wood River from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§ 3-227 MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such connection. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.)(Amended by
Ord. No. 263, 2/19/85)
§ 3-228 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; SINGLE PREMISE.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one (1) building sewer. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-229 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the City Utilities Director, to meet
all requirements of this Article. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No.
533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-230 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the U.S.C. and the W. P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the City Utilities Director before installation. (Ord. No.
153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-231 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-232 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City Utilities
Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the City Utilities Director or his representative. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
(Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-233 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City of Wood River.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-234 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Utilities Director. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Utilities Director, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.(Ord.
No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-235 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five (5) day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the
average sewage flow of the City shall be subject to the review of the Utilities
Director.
   (F)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Utilities Director, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (G)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Utilities Director and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 522, 4/5/11; 533. 10/22/13)
§ 3-236 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY CITY UTILITIES DIRECTOR.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Utilities Director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Utilities Director will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees (150°) Fahrenheit (65° degrees C).
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two degrees
(32°) and one hundred fifty degrees (150°) Fahrenheit (0 and 65° C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Utilities Director.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Utilities Director for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Utilities Director as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, Federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Utilities Director in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage.treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord.
No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-237 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
3-236, and which in the judgment of the Utilities Director may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public
nuisance, the Utilities Director may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
3-243.
   (B)   If the Utilities Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Utilities Director, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. (Ord. No. 153,
3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-238 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Utilities Director and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-239 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-240 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Utilities Director, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Utilities
Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. No.
153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-241 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Article, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from twenty-four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are
determined from periodic grab samples.) (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-242 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person or persons violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-243 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the City of Wood River and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the City of Wood River for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-244 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The Utilities Director and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The
Utilities Director or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-245 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
3-244 above, the Utilities Director or duly authorized employees of the City
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the City
employees and the City shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by the City's employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
3-240. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-246 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Director and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77) (Amended by
Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-247 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article except §
3-242 shall be served by the City of Wood River with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall become
liable to the City of Wood River for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
the City of Wood River by reason of such violation. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-248 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the City of Wood River for sewer service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the
payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on
the first (1st) day of June of each year to report to the Governing Body a list
of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service together with a description of the
premise served. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the Governing
Body, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-925.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-249 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the
Utilities Superintendent, Municipal Bookkeeper, or City Clerk may appear before
the Governing Body and present his grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, "Paid Under
Protest." Such consumer may then present his verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the Governing Body for a refund of the amount
so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the Governing
Body in the same manner as other claims against the City of Wood River.
§ 3-250 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this
Article shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Article which
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts. (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
§ 3-251 PENAL PROVISION; VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
in §
3-247, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
violation. Each twenty-four (24) hour period in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.  (Ord. No. 153, 3/8/77)
ARTICLE 3. FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 3-301 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
   In addition to the above, the Fire Department is authorized to enter into
agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of both the Municipality and the Rural Fire
District. (Ref. 17-147, 17-718, 17-953,35-530 RS Neb.)
§ 3-302 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§ 3-303 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than twenty-five (25) members for each
Fire Department Company subject to the review and approval of the Governing
Body. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be
considered to be employees of the Municipality for the purpose of providing
them with workmen's compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be
entitled to a term life insurance policy in the amount of at least five
thousand ($5,000.00) dollars for death from any cause to age sixty-five (65)
and such policy shall, at the option of the individual fireman, be convertible
to a permanent form of life insurance at age sixty-five (65); provided, that
the firemen covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their
position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the Governing Body. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review of the Governing Body. They may hold
meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the Governing
Body. The secretary shall upon request keep a record of all meetings and shall
make a report to the Governing Body of all meetings and activities of the Fire
Department. The Governing Body may, for services rendered, compensate or reward
any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution.
All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Governing Body. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of policemen and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the Municipal Code,
or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
   Provided, however, Volunteer Firefighters and rescue squad members
testifying as a witness in connection with his or her officially assigned
duties in that capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the State of
Nebraska or of the Municipality. (Ref. 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103, 35-108
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 274, 12/17/85)
§ 3-304 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he
shall include the information of whether such losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 3-305 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 3-306 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body as rural equipment may
be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
§ 3-307 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the Municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the Municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
§ 3-308 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the Municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
§ 3-309 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 3-310 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
§ 3-311 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FEES AND BILLING.
   (1)   All persons utilizing the emergency medical services provided through
the Municipal Fire Department shall be liable for the following minimum rates.
CLASSIFICATION DESCRIPTION MINIMUM SERVICE CHARGE
CLASSIFICATION DESCRIPTION  MINIMUM SERVICE CHARGE
A0425          Mileage      $16.00
A0428          BLS Non      $475.00
A0429          BLS     $650.00
A0426          ALS Non      $730.00
A0427          ALS          $800.00
A0433          ALS 2        $825.00
Treat          No Transport $150.00
 
   (2)   The above rates are to become effective for services provided as of
March 1, 2012. (Ord. No. 496, 9/19/06) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 517, 9/8/09; 526,
2/21/12)
ARTICLE 4. POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 3-401 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. He shall devote his whole time to the
municipal affairs, interests of the Municipality, and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and
enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the Municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 3-402 POLICE DEPARTMENT; ARREST JURISDICTION.
   (1)   Every Municipal police officer shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the City or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction. Primary
jurisdiction shall mean the geographic area within territorial limits of the
City of Wood River.
   (2)   Any Municipal police officer who is within this state but beyond the
territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of the City
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction
in the following cases:
      (a)   Any Municipal police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person into any other
jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such person and return
such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
   (b)   Any Municipal police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic infraction, may
follow such person anywhere in an area within twenty-five (25) miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (c)   Any Municipal police officer shall have such enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law enforcement
officer in need of assistance shall mean (i) a law enforcement officer whose
life is in danger or (ii) a law enforcement officer who needs assistance in
making an arrest and the suspect (A) will not be apprehended unless immediately
arrested, (B) may cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested, or (C) may destroy or conceal evidence of
the commission of a crime; and
      (d)   If the City, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, enters into a contract with any other municipality or county for law
enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the City shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in section
13-1802 RS Neb. (Ref. 29-215 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 380, 10/17/95)
ARTICLE 5. PARKS
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other
recreational areas through the Board of Park Commissioners. The Governing Body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance
of the Municipal Park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks
and other recreational areas of the Municipality. The Board shall not enter
into a contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except
for ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the Governing Body prior to the
contractual agreement. (Ref. 17-948 through 17-952 RS Neb.)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
ARTICLE 6. LIBRARY
§ 3-601 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
RS Neb.)
§ 3-602 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate books so disposed of. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
§ 3-603 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in
civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said
assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.)
§ 3-604 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library
shall forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-605 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the Library, without the consent of
the Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library. Any person removing a
book from the Library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-606 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
   The Municipal Library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
Municipality. The Librarian may exclude from the use of the Library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof. (Ref. 51-201, 51-212 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-607 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 7. LANDFILL
§ 3-701 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Landfill through the City
Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Landfill may each year
levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Landfill Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The City Superintendent shall have the direct management and control
of the Municipal Landfill and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his
position. The City Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Landfill subject
to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall
provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the Landfill and shall
set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and file the
same in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 19-2101 through 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 3-702 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; STATE REGULATION.
   The Municipality shall each year apply for a license to operate the
Municipal Landfill. Application shall be made to the Department of
Environmental Control on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be
charged for such licensing. Each license so issued shall expire on October 1,
following the date of issuance. It shall be the duty of the City Superintendent
to comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of
Environmental Control for the use and operation of the Municipal Landfill.
(Ref. 81-1517, 81-1519 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 8. ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
§ 3-801 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; OWNERSHIP.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Electrical System through
the Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Electrical
System may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Electrical System and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the Electrical System
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-902
through 17-904, 17-906, 17-909 RS Neb.)
§ 3-802 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The Municipality through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named, in this Article, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
Municipality, to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his
agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building or
place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for such
building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-802.5 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; EXTENSION FOR RELOCATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The retail electric rates of the City (Municipality) are based on the
cost of service to deliver electric power and energy from existing facilities.
The purpose of this extension policy is to establish general conditions under
which the Municipality will make extensions or additions to the electrical
facilities and the general guidelines to be followed in determining a customer
contribution.
   (B)   In general, the Municipality will make permanent extensions of
electric lines and facilities, without cost to the customer, where the
estimated revenue to be received from the service will provide an adequate and
continuous return on the Municipality's investment. The Municipality reserves
the right to determine the advisability, economic feasibility and legality of
making any extension. Extensions made by the Municipality shall remain the
property of the Municipality.
   (C)   Definitions.
      BETTERMENT COSTS. Betterment costs are the additional costs for electric
system improvements that are not required solely for the extension to the
customer, but are costs that the Municipality elects to incur now due to
anticipated or planned electric system capacity or configuration requirements.
      CONTRIBUTION IN AID OF CONSTRUCTION (CIAOC). The CIAOC is the portion of
the total investment that the customer is required to fund, which is non-
refundable, and calculated herein.
      STANDARD EXTENSION COST (SEC). The estimated cost to install one-quarter
(1/4) mile of single-phase overhead line, including the service, as determined
by the Municipality.
      TOTAL INVESTMENT. The total investment in an extension shall mean the
total project cost, including all materials, labor and applicable overheads to
service a proposed load, but excluding customer-provided facilities and costs
described in paragraphs (D)(3)(a), (b) and (c), and excluding betterment costs.
   (D)   Permanent extensions.
      (1)   Year-round service.
         (a)   Overhead extensions to individual single-family residences. The
Municipality will construct up to one-quarter (1/4) line miles of single-phase
overhead line extensions, including the service of its electric distribution
system, at no cost to the customer for an individual year-round single family
residence, except for the customer-provided facilities and costs herein
described as extraordinary construction costs. Customers shall be responsible
and shall be required to make a CIAOC for all extension costs above one-fourth
(1/4) line miles of single-phase overhead, including the service and customer-
provided facilities and costs as outlined in paragraph (D)(3)(a) below. If
three-phase service is required, the additional three-phase extension costs
will be considered part of the total investment and a CIAOC, if applicable,
shall be determined as stated herein.
         (b)   Underground extensions to individual single-family residences.
When underground construction is requested, the Municipality shall determine if
underground construction is appropriate and feasible. If underground
construction is appropriate and feasible, the Municipality will construct, at
no cost to the customer, up to one-fourth (1/4) mile of overhead or one-eighth
(1/8) mile of underground single-phase line extension to the meter pedestal.
Customers shall be responsible for and shall be required to make a CIAOC for
all extension costs above one-fourth (1/4) line miles of single-phase overhead
or one-eighth (1/8) line miles of single-phase underground, including the
service and customer-provided facilities and costs as outlined in Paragraph (D)
(3)(a) below. If three-phase service is required, the additional three-phase
extension costs will be considered part of the total investment and a CIAOC, if
applicable, shall be determined as stated herein.
         (c)   All other classes. Extensions to all other classes taking year-
round service include, but are not limited to, residential subdivisions, multi-
dwelling units, commercial, and industrial customers.
            1.   Allowable Investment Limit (AIL). The AIL shall be equal to
three (3) times the estimated annual gross revenue. For non-betterment
extensions (such as the relocation of existing facilities that impeded
development of new load on the same site), the determination of the AIL shall
include net increases in revenue, if applicable. The annual revenue of the
existing service during the prior twelve (12) months will be used in estimating
increased annual revenue expected for the non-betterment extension.
            2.   Overhead construction. The Municipality will construct
extensions to its electric lines and facilities at no cost to the customer,
provided that the estimated total investment in such extensions does not exceed
the Municipality's AIL. If the estimated total investment in an extension
exceeds the AIL, the customer shall be required to make a CIAOC equal to the
amount that the estimated total investment exceeds the AIL in accordance with
paragraph (D)(4) below.
            3.   Underground construction. When underground construction is
requested, the Municipality shall determine if underground construction is
appropriate and feasible. If the Municipality determines that underground
construction is appropriate and feasible, the Municipality will construct the
extension at no cost to the customer, provided that the estimated total
investment in such extensions does not exceed the municipality's AIL. If the
estimated total investment in an extension exceeds the AIL, the customer shall
be required to make a CIAOC equal to the amount that the estimated total
investment exceeds the AIL in accordance with Paragraph (D)(4) below.
      (2)   Seasonal service.
         (a)   Allowable Investment Limit (AIL). The AIL shall be equal to the
estimated annual gross revenue. For non-betterment extensions (such as the
relocation of existing facilities that impeded development of new load on the
same site), the determination of the AIL shall include net increases in
revenue, if applicable. The annual revenue of the existing services during the
prior twelve (12) months will be used in estimating increased annual revenue
expected from the non-betterment extension.
         (b)   Overhead construction. The Municipality will construct overhead
extensions to its electric lines and facilities at no cost to the customer,
provided that the estimated total investment in such extensions does not exceed
the Municipality's AIL. If the estimated total investment in an extension
exceeds the AIL, the customer shall be required to make a CIAOC equal to the
amount that the estimated total investment exceeds the AIL in accordance with
paragraph (D)(4) below.
         (c)   Underground construction. When underground construction is
requested, the Municipality shall determine it underground is appropriate and
feasible. If the Municipality determines that underground is appropriate and
feasible, the Municipality will construct the extension at no cost to the
customer, provided that the estimated total investment in such extensions does
not exceed the Municipality's AIL. It the estimated total investment in an
extension exceeds the AIL, the customer shall be required to make a CIAOC equal
to the amount that the estimated total investment exceeds the AIL in accordance
with paragraph (D)(4) below.
      (3)   Customer and Municipality responsibilities.
         (a)   Extraordinary construction costs. The customer will be
responsible for extraordinary construction costs and facilities where
conditions exist that do not allow for use of standard construction practices,
such as making provisions for extraordinary clearances and atypical right-of-
way acquisitions. Examples of extraordinary clearance provisions include: tree
and stump removal, establishing site final grade, etc. Examples of atypical
right-of-way acquisitions include condemnation proceedings, governmental agency
applications, etc.
         (b)   Underground extensions.
            1.   The Municipality will provide, at its expense, except as noted
in paragraph (D)(3)(b)2. below, the meter pedestal. The customer is responsible
for the installation of the pedestal and all service conductors beyond the
meter pedestal. The customer is responsible for maintenance of service
conductors beyond the meter pedestal.
            2.   For customers requiring three-phase service, in addition to
the above requirements, the customer is responsible for incremental cost (in
excess of single-phase service) of the transformer and metering, unless the
total investment is less than the AIL.
         (c)   Overhead extensions.
            1.   The Municipality will provide, at its expense, except as noted
in paragraph (D)(3)(c)2. below, the meter. The customer is responsible for
maintenance of service conductors beyond the meter.
            2.   For customers requiring three-phase service, in addition to
the above requirements, the customer is responsible for the incremental cost
(in excess of single-phase service) of the transformer and metering, unless the
total investment is less than the AIL.
      (4)   Contribution in aid of construction.
         (a)   Where a CIAOC is required, the entire amount shall be paid to
the Municipality, or an acceptable surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit
shall be provided to the Municipality.
         (b)   Municipality funding.
            1.   The Municipality may, at its sole discretion, advance fund the
CIAOC if the customer meets one (1) of the following two (2) criteria:
               a.   The customer is an existing customer in good standing, with
no delinquent payments for the previous sixty (60) months.
               b.   The customer is a new customer that will provide economic
development benefits to the Municipality, such as additional jobs or increased
property tax base. The new customer must have an investment-grade credit
rating, or otherwise provide evidence of credit-worthiness.
            2.   If the Municipality decides to advance fund the CIAOC, the
Municipality shall set up a repayment schedule that requires repayment each
month of no less than one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the CIAOC. Said
repayment schedule may or may not include interest costs, at the discretion of
the Municipality.
            3.   The customer shall enter a contract with the Municipality for
the repayment of the CIAOC.
            4.   In the event the customer is no longer served by the
Municipality, the Municipality may require immediate payment of the outstanding
CIAOC balance.
            5.   If the customer's account becomes delinquent, the Municipality
may require the customer to pay the outstanding balance of the CIAOC
immediately, or post an adequate letter of credit or other collateral in the
amount of the outstanding balance.
      (5)   Extensions to loads requiring capacity of five (5) MVA or more.
         (a)   Prior to construction of the extension, the customer shall enter
into a contract with the Municipality for a term of five (5) years. Such
contract will obligate the customer to a minimum monthly bill (the MMF charge)
during the five (5) year period, as provided below.
         (b)   The calculation basis for the MMF charge shall be equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the total investment in the extension or the non-recoverable
construction costs of the extension, whichever is greater. The non-recoverable
construction costs shall be equal to the estimated costs to install and remove
the extension, plus ten percent (10%) of the costs of materials, including
metering and transformers.
         (c)   The customer may request (limited to one (1) time during the
five (5) year term of the contract), or at its option, the Municipality may
conduct a review of the customer's total billing (the total accumulated
electric billing during the expired time period of the contract term, including
the actual MMF charges) is greater than or equal to the calculation basis, the
MMF charge shall be discontinued and the contract shall be terminated.
   (E)   Temporary extensions. Temporary extensions include service to any
customer class which, in the opinion of the Municipality, is considered
temporary service in nature, even though service may be used for a period of a
year or longer. Examples of temporary extensions may include carnivals or road
construction batch plants.
      (1)   For any single-phase temporary service requiring an extension of
one (1) span or less, including removal of the same upon completion of service,
the customer will be billed eighty dollars ($80.00), which includes the
Municipality's connect charge for new accounts, plus the two hundred dollar
($200.00) service deposit if applicable.
      (2)   For any extension of the Municipality's existing electric lines and
facilities which involves more than a single span or requires three-phase
service, a non-refundable service charge collected in advance of the
construction will be required. This charge will be equal to the estimated costs
to install and remove this service, plus ten percent (10%) of the costs of
materials, including metering and transformers. (Ord. No. 480, 10/5/04)
§ 3-803 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION, SERVICE DEPOSIT,
HOOKUP FEE.
   (A)   Persons desiring electrical service must make application therefore to
the Municipal Clerk. Applications for service must be accompanied by a two
hundred dollar ($200.00) service deposit unless the applicant has a current
account with the City and provided further that said account has been
maintained for a minimum of two (2) years without a disconnect notice having
been given during said two (2)-year period. Applicants requesting electrical
service to premises not previously connected to the electrical system shall
also be required to pay a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) hookup fee. The two
hundred dollar ($200.00) service deposit shall be retained by the City and may
be used by the City as an offset to any delinquent account of the subscriber or
may be refunded to the subscriber, at the subscriber's request, after
subscriber has paid for all utility charges and terminated all utility service
   (B)   Electricity may not be supplied to any house or building except on the
written order of the Utility Superintendent. The system shall not supply
electrical service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided that the entire cost of wire,
installation and other expenses shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the Municipality to supply electrical service to
non-residents. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 389, 3/5/96, 395, 9/10/96; 459, 7/8/03;
527, 3/20/12)
§ 3-804 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premise where
service is furnished in his name, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who
shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the said premise. If the
consumer should fail to give such notice, he shall be charged for all
electricity used on the said premise until the Utilities Superintendent is
otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-805 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this Municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the Municipality or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Utilities Superintendent. The consumer may have
wiring done by any competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points
of distribution. All wiring, equipment, and apparatus shall be installed
according to the electrical code duly adopted by the Municipality. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that such rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-806 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment up to and including the electrical
meter shall be paid by the Municipality. The expense of installation and wiring
from the meter to the points of distribution shall be the responsibility of the
consumer. If the consumer installs underground service from his property line
to the premises to be served, the Municipality shall pay a thirty ($30.00)
dollar rebate to the consumer because of the reduction of installation expense
incurred by the Municipality. Maintenance and replacement expense shall be
apportioned in the same manner. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-807 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one (1) time each month during
which electrical service is used between the fifteenth (15th) day and the
twentieth (20th) day of the month. In the event a meter is broken or otherwise
fails to register accurately the use of electricity by any consumer, the six
(6) month average of the season one (1) year previous to such breakage shall be
used for billing purposes. (Ref. 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-808 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
the electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk, under
the direction of the City Utilities Director, shall bill the consumers and
collect all money received by the City on the account of the Electric
Department. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-809 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; MINIMUM RATES; AREA LIGHTING CHARGES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the following minimum rates
provided by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order,
direct the Utilities Superintendent to shut off the electricity, in which case
he shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity
is turned on again.
ELECTRIC RATES
                      Applicable: To single family residences and individually
Residential RS        metered apartments for all domestic purposes when all
                      service is supplied through a single meter.
Character of Service: 60 cycle, AC, single-phase, 120 volt, 2 wire; or 120/140
                      volt, 3 wire (optional with the system).
                     Minimum Bill: The Customer Charge
                     Effective              April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
                     Customer Charge        $14.50        $15.00
                     WINTER
                     First 750 kWh, per kWh 10.70¢       11.10¢
                     Balance over 750 kWh   6.80¢        7.20¢
                     SUMMER
                     First 750 kWh, per kWh 11.80¢       12.30¢
                     Balance over 750 kWh   11.80¢       12.30¢
 
 
Residential Multi-Family Applicable: For service consisting of multiple
                         dwellings served through a single meter.
Character of Service:    60 cycle, AC, single-phase, 120 volt, 2 wire; or 120/
                         140 volt, 3 wire (optional with the system).
                        Minimum Bill: The Customer Charge
                        Effective       April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
                        Customer Charge $21.25        $22.25
                        WINTER
                        Plus: All kWh   10.70¢       11.10¢
                        SUMMER
                        Plus: All kWh   11.80¢       12.30¢
 
 
General Service GS    Applicable: To any customer that does not qualify for
                      another rate schedule.
                      Single phase, or three phase if available, alternating
Character of Service: current, electric service will be supplied at the
                      system's standard voltages when all service at one (1)
                      location is measured by one (1) meter.
                     Minimum Bill: The Customer Charge
                     Effective             April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
                     Single Phase Customer $21.25        $22.25
                      Charge
                     Three Phase Customer  $30.00        $30.00
                      Charge
                     WINTER
                     Plus: First 3,000 kWh 12.60¢       13.10¢
                     All over              8.10¢        8.40¢
                     SUMMER
                     Plus: First 3,000 kWh 14.30¢       14.70¢
                     All over              11.90¢       12.40¢
 
 
General Service Applicable: When the customer's demand exceeds 100 kW for three
Large Use       (3) consecutive months and the customer does not qualify for
                the Large Light and Power Rate.
               Minimum Bill: The Customer Charge
               Effective               April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
               Customer Charge         $50.00        $52.00
               WINTER
               First 300 kWh per kW  7.90¢        8.20¢
               Balance of Energy       5.70¢        5.90¢
               SUMMER
               First 300 kWh per kW    9.10¢        9.50¢
               Balance of Energy       9.10¢        9.50¢
 
 
                      Applicable: To customers with peak demand in excess of
Large Light and Power 250 kW in three (3) or more of the previous twelve (12)
LLP-2                 months. This rate shall also apply to public schools
                      formerly served under the separate contract rate.
                     Minimum Bill: The Customer Charge
                     Effective       April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
                     Customer Charge $150.00       $155.00
                     WINTER
                     Demand Charge   $14.00 per kW $14.50 per kW
                     Energy Charge   4.30¢        4.50¢
                     SUMMER
                     Demand Charge   $18.00 per kW $18.75 per kW
                     Energy Charge   4.90¢        5.10¢
 
 
Municipal MU Applicable: To accounts owned by the City of Wood River.
            Effective       April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
            Customer Charge $0.00         $0.00
            Energy, per kWh 6.27¢        6.52¢
 
 
Irrigation Irrig-1 Effective             April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
                  Regular Rate:                       
                  Connected horsepower  $82.50        $86.00
                   charge
                  Energy per kWh        8.30¢        8.60¢
                  Alternating                         
                   Interruptible
                  Connected horsepower  $46.25        $48.00
                   charge
                  Energy per kWh        7.40¢        7.70¢
                  Anytime Interruptible               
                  Connected horsepower  $30.25        $31.50
                   charge
                  Energy per kWh        7.00¢        7.30¢
                   One-half of the horsepower charge will be billed May 1 and
                  the second half of the demand charge shall be billed
                   October 1.
 
 
Private Roadway and Area Lighting Lamp Size     April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015
Customer-Owned Schedule GS-3
                                 175 watt MV   $4.70         $4.90
                                 250 watt MV   $6.50         $6.75
                                 400 watt MV   $10.75        $11.15
                                 1,000 watt MV $25.00        $26.00
                                 100 watt HPS  $3.00         $3.12
                                 250 watt HPS  $6.45         $6.70
                                 400 watt HPS  $9.80         $10.20
 
 
Load Management      Any customer, regardless of rate class is eligible for a
$6.00 per month credit during the summer months (June 1 through September 30)
if such customer allows the City to control air conditioning usage.
   (2)   These rates are subject to application of the Retail Production Cost
Adjustment used by the Municipality and subject to change accordingly.
   (3)   Rates to go into effect for service as of April 1, 2014.
   (4)   The winter rates shall apply to the customer's prorated use from
October 1 through May 31 and the summer rates shall apply to the customer's
prorated use from June 1 through September 30. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 345, 5/5/
92; 348, 7/7/92; 370, 9/6/94; 445, 5/21/02; 488, 10/18/05; 507, 3/18/08; 519,
1/5/10; 524, 11/8/11. 536, 3/4/14)
§ 3-809.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; SURCHARGE FOR CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING
WITH NO LOAD CONTROL.
   In addition to the minimum rates set forth in § 3-809, an additional
surcharge of thirty percent (30%) of the electrical service shall be charged to
all customers in the municipality having a central air conditioning system who
do not install and participate in the use of load control devices for
interrupted service. The surcharge shall be charged to the residential and
commercial consumers on their monthly electrical billings for electricity
consumed during the months of June, July, August and September. (Ord. No. 325,
7/1/90)
§ 3-810 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; MERCURY VAPOR LIGHT CHARGES.
   The Municipality will install, maintain, and furnish unmetered energy on
existing area light structures, for a monthly charge of two dollars and fifty
cents ($2.50) per month on a 175 Watt mercury vapor light.   The Municipality
will also install, maintain, and meter the energy used on existing structures,
for a monthly charge of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per month on a 175
watt mercury vapor light. If no mounting structure is available, or if
secondary service is needed, the Municipality will provide this equipment for
an additional charge of fifty ($.50) cents per pole, per month; and for a span
of secondary, not to exceed one hundred fifty (150') feet, at a charge of fifty
($.50) cents per month.
   The customer may purchase and install lighting equipment and the
Municipality will furnish unmetered current at a monthly charge of one dollar
and five cents ($1.05) per month for a 175 watt mercury light.
   All installation provided for under this section shall be in conformance
with the Electrical Code of the Municipality and all lighting equipment shall
be controlled by photocell, with no lamp of less than 175 watt. The recommended
mounting height shall be 20 - 25 feet.
§ 3-811 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; FEES DUE AND PAYABLE.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable monthly as provided by §
3-903. (Amended by Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-812 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RESTRICTED USE.
   The Municipal Electrical System does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The Municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the Municipality has no control and the
Municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer's service without preliminary notice. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-813 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
Municipal Electrical System, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order
paid in advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be
paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense
of removing, changing, and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the
Electrical System shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any
surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house
it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
§ 3-814 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures, or equipment of the Municipal Electrical System any sign,
poster, advertisement, or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 3-815 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the
Utilities Superintendent, Municipal Bookkeeper, or Municipal Clerk may appear
before the Governing Body and present his grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
electricity, or for the resumption of electric service after the same shall
have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, "Paid
Under Protest." Such consumer may then present his verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the Governing Body for a refund of the amount
so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the Governing
Body in the same manner as other claims against the Municipality.
§ 3-816 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the Municipal Electrical System shall, before doing
the said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities Superintendent
and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he may prescribe for
doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such
trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper
notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the Electrical System, the
Governing Body shall have the power to order cut and removed any overhanging
branches, or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
§ 3-817 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his duly authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to each premise and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-818 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Electrical System. (Ref. 28-512 RS Neb.)
§ 3-819 COGENERATION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article the following definitions will apply.
   COGENERATION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric energy and
steam or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for
industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY means a cogeneration facility that meets
the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding
ownership, fuel use, and operating and efficiency standards.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric
energy solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste,
renewable resources, or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80
megawatts at one site.
   QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a small power production
facility that meets the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regarding ownership, fuel use, fuel efficiency, and reliability.
   INTERCONNECTION COSTS means the reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent such costs are in excess
of the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. (Interconnection costs do
not include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.)
   AVOIDED COSTS means the incremental costs to an electric utility of electric
energy or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying
facilities, such utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
(Ord. No. 212, 3/10/81)
§ 3-820 COGENERATION; INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric system of
the City of Wood River shall make application to the Department of Utilities
for such interconnection. Applicants shall use such forms as are prescribed by
the City of Wood River and shall furnish all information requested.
   The City of Wood River shall establish reasonable standards to be met by
qualifying facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of interconnected
operations. Such standards may include but shall not be limited to the
following areas: power factor; voltage regulations; fault, overcurrent, and
over-under voltage protection; harmonics; synchronization; and isolation.
   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a qualifying
facility shall be paid for by such qualifying facility. Qualifying facilities
shall be required to execute contractual agreements with the City of Wood River
before any interconnection is established. (Ord. No. 212, 3/10/81)
§ 3-821 COGENERATION; RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service. (Ord. No. 212, 3/10/81)
§ 3-822 COGENERATION; RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities shall be
established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
   Such rates shall be just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the
utility and in the public interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying
cogeneration and small power production facilities, and shall be related to
avoided costs; however, in no case is the utility required to pay more than the
avoided costs.
   Standard rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying facilities
with a design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Rates for purchases from
qualifying facilities with a design capacity over 100 kilowatts may be standard
rates or may be by individual contracts, the terms of which are fair and
reasonable. (Ord. No. 212, 3/10/81)
ARTICLE 9. UTILITIES GENERALLY
§ 3-901 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in section 25-21,
275 RS Neb. shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing,
         (b)   Tampering, or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
Municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) if
the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable
calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under subdivision (2)(a) or (b), the
Municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of section 25-
1801 RS Neb. (Ref. 25-21,276 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist. (Ref. 25-21,277 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.  (Ref. 25-21,278 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 248, 1/3/84) (Amended by Ord. No. 467, 10/21/03)
§ 3-902 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING,
UNAUTHORIZED RE-CONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the knowledge and consent of the
Municipality, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to any
instrument by or at which electricity, electric current, or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical or water service without the knowledge and
consent of the municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to
section 70-1601 to 70-1615 RS Neb.; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the Municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist. (Ref. 28-515.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 466, 10/
21/03)
§ 3-903 UTILITIES GENERALLY; UTILITY BILLS.
   Charges and fees for electric, water, and sewer service shall be due and
payable monthly at the office of the City Clerk. Charges and fees for electric,
water, and sewer service shall be billed on a monthly basis. Utility bills
shall be mailed on the first day of each month and shall be due and payable on
the tenth (10th) day of each month. Bills not paid by the tenth (10th) shall be
deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed delinquent as herein defined, the
City may discontinue the appropriate service pursuant to the provisions of §
3-904 et seq. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon
payment of in full of the delinquent charges and further upon payment of a
reconnection fee established by the City and on file in the office of the City
Clerk. The City may also take any action authorized by law to effect collection
of the delinquent charges. (Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-904 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City shall not discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any due utility account unless it first gives written notice by
mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated, at least
seven (7) days prior to termination, weekends and holidays excluded. As to any
subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the
utility by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), such
notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall
be given to DHHS.
   (B)   By completion of a third-party designation form and delivering the
same to the City Clerk, customers may designate a third party who shall be
provided with notification of any proposed discontinuance of service. The City
shall advise all utility customers, including new customers, of this procedure.
   (C)   Notices of utility termination shall clearly and conspicuously advise
any recipient of the following information:
      (1)   Prior to termination or alteration of services to a domestic
customer, the customer has the right to an informal conference before the City
Utilities Director at which he/she may contest the reasons for the proposed
termination or alteration. To schedule such a conference, the customer or his/
her representative must deliver a written request for conference addressed to:
         City of Wood River
         Attn: City Clerk
         City Hall
         PO Box 8
         Wood River, Nebraska 68883
      (2)   The request for conference must be delivered to the City within
four (4) days after the customer's receipt of notice of termination or
alteration of service.
   (D)   The customer's request for a conference must include a written
statement that sets forth the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested.
If a timely request for conference and statement has been made by the customer,
a conference shall be held before the Utilities Director before the City may
discontinue utility service. (Ref. 70-1606 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 533,10/22/2013)
§ 3-905 UTILITIES GENERALLY; INFORMAL CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The conference, when properly requested, will be held within fourteen
(14) days by the City Utilities Director. The subjects to be heard shall
include matters relating to a disputed bill. The Utilities Director shall hear
and decide all matters disputed by the domestic customer. The customer shall
receive written notice of the time, place, and date scheduled for the
conference. Failure of the customer to attend a scheduled conference shall
relieve the City of any further action prior to discontinuance of the service.
If the customer contacts the Utilities Director prior to the conference and
demonstrates that failure to attend is for a legitimate reason, the Utilities
Director shall make a reasonable effort to reschedule the conference.
   (B)   The Utilities Director shall, based solely on the evidence presented
at the conference, affirm, reverse, or modify any decision involving a disputed
bill that results in a threatened termination of utility service. Termination
of utility service is a measure of last resort after the City has exhausted all
other remedies less drastic than termination. (Ref. 70-1606 to 1610 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-906 UTILITIES GENERALLY; APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   A domestic customer may appeal an adverse decision of the
Utilities Director to the City's Mayor by delivering a written notice of appeal
to:
      City of Wood River
      Attn: City Clerk
      City Hall
      PO Box 8
      Wood River, Nebraska 68883
      (2)   The written notice of appeal must be received by the City within
four (4) days following entry of the adverse decision.
   (B)   At any hearing the domestic customer may:
      (1)   Be represented by legal counsel or other representative or
spokesperson;
      (2)   Examine and copy, not less than three (3) business days prior to
such hearing, the utility's file and records pertaining to all matters directly
relevant to the dispute or utilized in any way by the utility in reaching the
decision to propose termination or to take other action which is the subject of
the hearing;
      (3)   Present witnesses and offer evidence;
      (4)   Confront and cross-examine such other witnesses as may appear and
testify at the hearing; and
      (5)   Make or have made a record of the proceedings at his or her own
expense.
   (C)   The City shall notify the domestic customer of the time, place, and
date scheduled for such hearing. (Ref. 70-1612 to 1614 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 533,
10/22/13)
§ 3-907 UTILITIES GENERALLY; NOTICE TO NON-CUSTOMER SERVICE ADDRESS.
   In the event any service address affected by termination of service is not
the billing address, notice of termination of service must be delivered to each
service address so affected, in addition to delivery to the billing address. In
such circumstances, notices may be mailed with first class postage prepaid to
assure delivery, or notice can be accomplished by the timely, residential or
personal delivery of such notice to each service address. However, in the case
of residential or personal delivery, the City employee delivering notice shall
record his/her own identity and the date and time of such delivery notice.
(Ref. 70-1607 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-908 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DEFINITION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   PERSONAL SERVICE shall be made by leaving the notice with the
individual to be served.
   (B)   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE shall mean leaving the notice at the usual place
of residence of the individual to be served, with some person of suitable age
and discretion residing at the residence. (Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
§ 3-909 UTILITIES GENERALLY; PROCEDURE NOT APPLICABLE.
   (A)   The rights and procedures provided by this policy shall not apply to
any disconnections or interruptions of services made necessary by the utility
for reasons of repair or maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the
domestic customer or of the general public.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
service made necessary by the City for reasons of repair or maintenance or to
protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 70-1615 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 533, 10/22/13)
ARTICLE 10. PENAL PROVISION
§ 3-1001 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
3.   DISEASE
      
4.   FOOD
      
5.   SANITARY FACILITIES AND CONTROLS
      
6.   TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
7.   FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT
      
8.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
9.   NUISANCES
      
10.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
§ 4-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this Chapter. Words and phrases not defined in this Article shall have their
common meaning.
   ADULTERATED. The term "adulterated" shall mean the condition of a food (a)
if it bears or contains a poisonous or deleterious substance in a quantity
which may render it injurious to health; (b) if it bears or contains any added
poisonous or deleterious substance for which no safe tolerance has been
established by regulation, or in excess of such tolerance if one has been
established; (c) if it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or
decomposed substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption; (d) if
it has been processed, prepared, packed, or held under unsanitary conditions,
whereby it may have become contaminated with filth, or whereby it may have been
rendered injurious to health; (e) if it is in whole or in part the product of a
diseased animal, or an animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter; or
(f) if its container is composed in whole or in part of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health.
   APPROVED. The term "approved" shall mean acceptable to the Health Authority,
or his agent, based on his determination as to conformance with appropriate
standards and good public health practices.
   CLOSED. The term "closed" shall mean fitted together snugly leaving no
openings large enough to permit the entrance of vermin.
   CORROSION RESISTANT MATERIAL. The term "corrosion resistant material" shall
mean a material which maintains its original surface characteristics under
prolonged influence of the food, cleaning compounds, and sanitizing solutions
which may contact it.
   EASILY CLEANABLE. The term "easily cleanable" shall mean readily accessible
and of such material and finish, and so fabricated that residue may be
completely removed by normal cleaning methods.
   EMPLOYEE. The term "employee" shall mean any person working in a food-
service establishment who transports food or food containers, who engages in
food preparation or service, or who comes in contact with any food utensils or
equipment.
   EQUIPMENT. The term "equipment" shall mean all stoves, ranges, hoods, meat
blocks, tables, counters, refrigerators, sinks, dishwashing machines, steam
tables, and similar items other than utensils, used in the operation of a food-
service establishment.
   FOOD. The term "food" shall mean any raw, cooked or processed edible
substances, beverage or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in
whole or in part for human consumption.
   FOOD CONTACT SURFACES. The term "food contact surfaces" shall mean those
surfaces of equipment and utensils with which food normally comes in contact,
and those surfaces with which food may have come in contact and going back on
to surfaces normally in contact with food.
   FOOD-PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. The term "food-processing establishment"
shall mean a commercial establishment in which food is processed or otherwise
prepared and packaged for human consumption.
   FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. The term "food-service establishment" shall mean
any fixed or mobile restaurant; coffee shop; cafeteria; short-order cafe;
luncheonette; grill; tea room; sandwich shop; soda fountain; tavern; bar;
cocktail lounge; night club; roadside stand; industrial feeding establishment;
private, public or non-profit organization or institution routinely serving
food; catering kitchen; commissary or similar place in which food or drink is
prepared for sale or for service on the premises or elsewhere; and any other
eating or drinking establishment or operation where food is served or provided
for the public with or without charge.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The term "Health Authority" shall mean the Health
Authority of the Municipality of Wood River, or his agent.
   KITCHENWARE. The term "kitchenware" shall mean all multi-use utensils other
than tableware used in the storage, preparation, conveying, or serving of food.
   MISBRANDED. The term "misbranded" shall mean the presence of any written,
printed, or graphic matter, upon or accompanying food or containers of food,
which is false or misleading, or which violates any applicable state or local
labeling requirements
   PERISHABLE FOOD. The term "perishable food" shall mean any food of such type
or of such condition as may spoil.
   PERSON. The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership,
company, corporation, trustee, association, or public or private entity.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. The term "potentially hazardous food" shall mean
any perishable food which consists in whole or in part of milk or milk
products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish, or other ingredients capable of
supporting rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic micro-
organisms.
   SAFE TEMPERATURES. The term "safe temperatures" as applied to potentially
hazardous food, shall mean temperatures of 45 degrees Fahrenheit or below, and
140 degrees Fahrenheit or above.
   SANITIZED. The term "sanitized" shall mean effective bactericidal treatment
of clean surfaces of equipment and utensils by a process which has been
approved by the Health Authority, or his agent, as being effective in
destroying micro-organisms, including pathogens.
   SEALED. The term "sealed" shall mean free of cracks or other openings which
permit the entry or passage of moisture.
   SINGLE SERVICE ARTICLES. The term "single service articles" shall mean cups,
containers, lids or closures; plates, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles;
straws, placemats, napkins, doilies, wrapping materials; and all similar
articles which are constructed wholly or in part from paper, paper cord, molded
pulp, foil, wood, plastic, synthetic, or other readily destructible materials,
and which are intended by the manufacturers and generally recognized by the
public as for one usage only, then to be discarded.
   TABLEWARE. The term "tableware" shall mean all multi-use eating and drinking
utensils, including flatware (knives, forks, and spoons).
   TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. The term "temporary food-service
establishment" shall mean any food service establishment which operates at a
fixed location for a temporary period of time, not to exceed two weeks, in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or similar
transitory gathering.
   UTENSIL. The term "utensil" shall mean any tableware and kitchenware used in
the storage, preparation, conveying, or serving of food.
   WHOLESOME. The term "wholesome" shall mean in sound condition, clean, free
from adulteration and otherwise suitable for human consumption.
ARTICLE 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-201 HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-202 HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, and the Health
Authority, or his agent, shall be the chief health officers of the
Municipality. It shall be their duty to notify the Governing Body and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the Municipality and its zoning
jurisdiction.
§ 4-203 HEALTH; STATE RULES.
   The "Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health," Department of Health
of the State of Nebraska are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the Municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended. Three (3) copies of the said pamphlet are filed at the office of
the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902 RS Neb.)
§ 4-204 HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
ARTICLE 3. DISEASE
§ 4-301 DISEASE; CONTROLS.
   No person while affected with any disease in a communicable form, or while a
carrier of such disease, or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds, sores,
or an acute respiratory infection, shall work in any area of a food-service
establishment in any capacity in which there is a likelihood of such person
contaminating food or food-contact surfaces with pathogenic organisms, or
transmitting disease to other individuals; and no person known or suspected of
being affected with any such disease or condition shall be employed in such an
area or capacity. If the manager or person in charge of the establishment has
reason to suspect that any employee has contracted any disease in a
communicable form or has become a carrier of such disease, he shall notify the
Health Authority immediately.
§ 4-302 DISEASE; CLEANLINESS.
   All employees shall wear clean outer garments, maintain a high degree of
personal cleanliness, and conform to hygienic practices while on duty. They
shall wash their hands thoroughly in an approved hand washing facility before
starting work, and as often as may be necessary to remove soil and
contamination. No employee shall resume work after visiting the toilet room
without first washing his hands.
ARTICLE 4. FOOD
§ 4-401 FOOD; SUPPLIES.
   All food and food-services establishments shall be from sources approved or
considered satisfactory by the Health Authority, or his agent. Such
establishments shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage, free from
adulteration and misbranding, and safe for human consumption. No hermetically
sealed, nonacid, and low acid food which has been processed in a place other
than a commercial food-processing establishment shall be used.
§ 4-402 FOOD; PROTECTION.
   All food while being stored, prepared, displayed, served or sold at food-
service establishments, or during transportation between such establishments,
shall be protected from contamination. All perishable food shall be stored at
such temperatures as will protect against spoilage. All potentially hazardous
food shall be maintained at safe temperatures (45 degrees Fahrenheit or below,
or 140 degrees Fahrenheit or above), except during necessary periods of
preparation and service. Raw foods and vegetables shall be washed before use.
Stuffings, stuffed meats and poultry, and pork products shall be thoroughly
cooked before being served. Individual portions of food once served to the
customer shall not be served again; Provided, that wrapped food which has not
been unwrapped and which is wholesome may be re-served.
§ 4-403 FOOD; POISONOUS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   Only such poisonous and toxic materials as are required to maintain sanitary
conditions and for sanitation purposes may be used or stored in food-service
establishments. Poisonous and toxic materials shall be identified, and shall be
used only in such manner and under such conditions as will not contaminate food
or constitute a hazard to employees or customers.
§ 4-404 FOOD; SANITARY DESIGN.
   All equipment and utensils shall be designed and of such material and
workmanship as to be smooth, easily cleanable, and durable, and shall be in
good repair. The food-contact services of such equipment and utensils shall, in
addition, be easily accessible for cleaning, non-toxic, corrosion resistant,
and relatively non-absorbent; Provided, that when approved by the Health
Authority, or his agent, exceptions may be made in the above materials for
requirements for equipment such as cutting boards, blocks, and baker's tables.
All equipment shall be so installed and maintained as to facilitate the
cleaning thereof, and of all adjacent areas. Equipment in use at the time of
the adoption of this Article which does not meet
fully the above requirements may be continued in use it is in good repair,
capable of being maintained in a sanitary condition and the food-contact
services are non-toxic. Single-service articles shall be made from non-toxic
materials.
§ 4-405 FOOD; CLEANLINESS OF EQUIPMENT AND UTENSILS.
   All eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized
after each usage. All kitchenware and food-contact services of equipment
exclusive of cooking surfaces of equipment, used in the preparation or serving
of food or drink, and all food-storage utensils, shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use Cooking surfaces of equipment shall be cleaned at least once a
day. All utensils and food-contact surfaces of equipment used in the
preparation, service, display, or storage of potentially hazardous food shall
be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized prior to such use. Non-food-contact
surfaces of equipment shall be cleaned at such intervals as to keep them in a
clean and sanitary condition.
§ 4-406 FOOD; EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   After cleaning and until use, all food-contact surfaces of equipment and
utensils shall be so stored and handled as to be protected from contamination.
All single-service articles shall be stored, handled and dispensed in a
sanitary manner, and shall be used only once.
§ 4-407 FOOD; SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES.
   Food-service establishments which do not have adequate and effective
facilities for cleaning and sanitizing utensils shall use single-service
articles.
ARTICLE 5. SANITARY FACILITIES AND CONTROLS
§ 4-501 HEALTH; WATER SUPPLY.
   The water supply shall be adequate, of a safe, sanitary quality, and from an
approved source. Hot and cold running water, under pressure, shall be provided
in all areas where food is prepared, or equipment, utensils, or containers are
washed. Water, if not piped into the establishment, shall be transported and
stored in approved containers and shall be handled and dispensed in a sanitary
manner. Ice used for any purpose shall be made from water which comes from an
approved source, and shall be used only if it has been manufactured, stored,
transported and handled in a sanitary manner.
§ 4-502 HEALTH; SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   All sewage shall be disposed of in a public sewerage system, or, in the
absence thereof, in a manner approved by the Health Authority, or his agent.
§ 4-503 HEALTH; PLUMBING.
   Plumbing shall be sized, installed, and maintained so that it can carry
adequate quantities of water to required locations throughout the
establishment; prevent contamination of the water supply; properly convey
sewage and liquid wastes from the establishment to the sewerage or sewage-
disposal system; and not constitute a source of contamination of food,
equipment or utensils, or create an unsanitary condition or nuisance.
§ 4-504 HEALTH; FACILITIES.
   Each food-service establishment shall be provided with adequate,
conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees. Toilet fixtures shall
be of a sanitary design and readily cleanable Toilet facilities, including
rooms and fixtures, shall be kept in a clean condition and in good repair. The
doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet tissue shall be
provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided for waste materials,
and such receptacles for toilet rooms for women shall be covered. Where the use
of non-water-carriage sewage disposal facilities have been approved by the
Health Authority, or his agent, such facility shall be separate from the
establishment. When toilet facilities are provided for patrons, such facility
shall meet the requirements of this Section.
§ 4-505 HEALTH; HAND-WASHING FACILITIES.
   Each food-service establishment shall be provided with adequate,
conveniently located hand-washing facilities for its employees, including a
lavatory or lavatories equipped with hot and cold or tempered running water,
hand-cleansing soap or detergent, and approved sanitary towels or other
approved hand-drying devices. Such facilities shall be kept clean and in good
repair.
§ 4-506 HEALTH; GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL.
   All garbage and rubbish containing food waste shall, prior to disposal, be
kept in leakproof, non-absorbent containers which shall be kept covered with
tight-fitting lids when filled or stored, or not in continuous use; Provided,
that such containers need not be covered when stored in a special vermin-
proofed room or enclosure, or in a food-waste refrigerator. All other rubbish
shall be stored in containers, rooms or areas in an approved manner. The rooms,
enclosures, areas and containers used shall be adequate for the storage of all
food waste and rubbish accumulated on the premises. Adequate cleaning
facilities shall be provided, and each container, room or area shall be fully
cleaned after the emptying or removal of garbage and rubbish. Food-waste
grinders, if used, shall be installed in compliance with state and local
standards and shall be of suitable construction. All garbage and rubbish shall
be disposed of with sufficient frequency and in such a manner as to prevent a
nuisance.
§ 4-507 HEALTH; VERMIN CONTROL.
   Effective measures shall be taken to protect against vermin entering into,
or breeding in any establishment.
§ 4-508 HEALTH; FLOORS, WALLS AND CEILINGS.
   The floor surfaces in kitchens, in all other rooms and areas in which food
is served or prepared and in which utensils are washed, and in walk-in
refrigerators, dressing or locker rooms, and toilet rooms, shall be of smooth,
non-absorbent materials, and so constructed as to be easily cleaned; Provided,
that the floors of non-refrigerated, dry-food storage areas need not be non-
absorbent. All floors shall be kept clean and in good repair. Floor drains
shall be provided in all rooms where floors are subjected to flooding-type
cleaning or when normal operations release or discharge water or other liquid
waste on the floor. All exterior areas where food is served shall be kept clean
and properly drained, and services in such areas shall be finished so as to
facilitate maintenance and minimize dust. The walls and ceilings of all rooms
shall be kept clean and in good repair. All walls of rooms or areas in which
food is prepared or utensils or hands are washed, shall be easily cleanable,
smooth, and light-colored, and shall have washable surfaces up to the highest
levels reached by splash or spray.
§ 4-509 HEALTH; LIGHTING AND VENTILATION.
   All food preparation and storage areas, utensil-washing areas, hand-washing
areas, dressing or locker rooms, toilet rooms and garbage and rubbish storage
areas shall be well-lighted. During all clean-up activities, adequate light
shall be provided in any area being cleaned, and upon or around equipment being
cleaned. Such areas shall also be well-ventilated. Ventilation hoods and
devices shall be designed to prevent grease or condensate from dripping into
food or onto food-preparation surfaces. Filters, where used, shall be readily
removable for cleaning or replacement. Ventilation systems shall comply with
applicable state and local fire prevention requirements and shall, when vented
to the outside air, discharge in such manner as not to create a nuisance.
§ 4-510 HEALTH; DRESSING ROOMS AND LOCKERS.
   Adequate facilities shall be provided for the orderly storage of employees'
clothing and personal belongings. Where employees routinely change clothes
within the establishment, one or more dressing rooms or designated areas shall
be provided for this purpose. Such designated areas shall be located outside of
the food-preparation, storage, and serving areas, and the utensil-washing and
storage areas; Provided, that when approved by the Health Authority, or his
agent, such an area may be located in a storage room where only completely
packaged food is stored. Designated areas shall be equipped with adequate
lockers and other suitable facilities shall be provided in dressing rooms.
Dressing rooms and lockers shall be kept clean.
§ 4-511 HEALTH; HOUSEKEEPING.
   All parts of the establishment and its premises shall be kept neat, clean,
and free of litter and rubbish. Cleaning operations shall be conducted in such
a manner as to minimize contamination of food and food-contact surfaces. None
of the operations connected with the food-service establishment shall be
conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters. Soiled linens,
coats, and aprons shall be kept in a suitable container until removed for
laundering. No live birds or animals shall be allowed in any area used for the
conduct of food-service establishment operations; Provided, that guide dogs
accompanying blind persons may be permitted in dining areas.
ARTICLE 6. TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 4-601 HEALTH; TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   A temporary food-service establishment shall comply with all provisions of
this Chapter which are applicable to its operation; provided, that the Health
Authority, or is agent may augment such requirements when needed to assure the
service of safe food; and may prohibit the sale of certain potentially
hazardous foods; and may modify when a specific imminent health hazard will
result.
ARTICLE 7. FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT
§ 4-701 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food-service establishment
within the Municipality of Wood River, or its zoning jurisdiction, who does not
possess a valid permit issued to him by the Health Authority, or his agent.
Only a person who complies with the requirements of this Chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. Permits shall not be transferable
from one person to another person or place. A valid permit shall be posted in
every food-service establishment. Permits for temporary food-service
establishments shall be issued for a period of time not to exceed fourteen (14)
days.
§ 4-702 ADOPTION OF UNITED STATES PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
MANUAL AND CODE; FEES.
   The City of Wood River, Nebraska, hereby adopts by reference the 1976 United
States Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation Code and Manual for the
regulations of all food-service establishments within the Municipality of Wood
River, Nebraska. The City Clerk or his agent, shall charge a permit fee for the
issuance of permits under
Chapter 4 Article 7 of the Wood River Code, as follows:
   a.   Commencing January 1, 1987, a permit fee of thirty-five ($35.00)
dollars for permits issued to food-service establishments that have twenty-five
(25) seat capacity or less; for those food-service establishments that have
over a twenty-five (25) seat capacity, in addition to the thirty-five ($35.00)
dollar permit fee, an additional permit fee of forty (40¢) cents per seat over
twenty-five (25) seats shall be assessed.
   b.   Commencing January 1, 1988, a permit fee of fifty ($50.00) dollars
shall be charged to those food-service establishments that have a twenty-five
(25) seat capacity or less; for those establishments that have over a twenty-
five (25) seat capacity, in addition to the fifty ($50.00) dollar permit fee,
an additional permit fee of forty (40¢) cents per seat over twenty-five (25)
seats shall be assessed.
   The permit fee for all temporary food- service operations under this Chapter
shall be in the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars. All permit fees shall be paid to
the City Clerk or County Health Authority for the operation, inspection and
enforcement of this Chapter. (Amended by Ord. No. 282, 9/16/86)
§ 4-703 PERMITS; ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring to operate a food-service establishment shall make
written application for a permit on forms provided by the Health Authority, or
his agent. Such application shall include: The applicant's full name and
address and whether such applicant in an individual, firm or corporation, and,
if a partnership, the names of the partners, together with their addresses; the
location and type of the proposed food- service establishment; and the
signature of the applicant or applicants. If the application is for a temporary
food-service establishment, it shall also include the inclusive date of the
proposed operation. Upon receipt of such an application, the Health Authority,
or his agent, shall make an inspection of the food-service establishment to
determine the compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. When inspection
reveals the applicable requirements of this Chapter have been met, a permit
shall be issued to the applicant by the Health Authority, or his agent.
§ 4-704 PERMITS; SUSPENSION.
   Permits may be suspended temporarily by the Health Authority, or his agent,
for failure of the holder to comply with the requirements of this Chapter.
Whenever a permit holder or operator has failed to comply with any notice
issued under the provisions of this Chapter, the permit holder or operator
shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the notice,
immediately suspended (or the establishment degraded), and that an opportunity
for a hearing may be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with
the Health Authority, or his agent, by the permit holder.
§ 4-705 PERMITS; EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Chapter, whenever the Health
Authority, or his agent, finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation
of a food-service establishment which, in his judgment, constitute a
substantial hazard to the public health, he may without warning, notice, or
hearing, issue a written notice to the permit holder or operator citing such
condition, specifying the corrective action to be taken and specifying the time
period in which such action shall be taken; and, if deemed necessary, such
order shall state that the permit is immediately suspended, and all food-
service operations are to be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom an
order is issued shall comply immediately therewith, but upon written petition
to the Health Authority, or his agent, shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible.
§ 4-706 PERMITS; REINSTATEMENT.
   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application for re-inspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the permit.
Within ten (10) days following receipt of a written request, including a
statement signed by the applicant that in his opinion, the conditions causing
suspension of the permit have been corrected, the Health Authority, or his
agent, shall make a re-inspection. If the applicant is complying with the
requirements of this Chapter, the permit shall be reinstated.
§ 4-707 PERMITS; REVOCATION.
   For serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of this
Chapter, or for interference with the Health Authority, or his agent, in the
performance of his duties, the permit may be permanently revoked after an
opportunity for a hearing has been provided by the Health Authority, or his
agent. Prior to such action, the Health Authority, or his agent, shall notify
the permit holder in writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is
subject to revocation and advising that the permit shall be permanently revoked
at the end of the five (5) days following service of such notice, unless a
request for a hearing is filed with the Health Authority, or his agent, by the
permit holder, within such five (5) day period. A permit may be suspended for
cause pending is revocation or hearing relative thereto.
§ 4-708 HEARING; PROCEDURE.
   The hearing provided for in this Article shall be conducted by the Health
Authority, or his agent, at a time and place designated by him. Based upon the
record of such hearing, the Health Authority, or his agent, shall make a
finding and shall sustain, modify, or rescind any official notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be
furnished the permit holder by the Health Authority, or his agent.
§ 4-709 INSPECTION OF FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   At least once every six (6) months, the Health Authority, or his agent,
shall inspect each food-service establishment located within the Municipality,
or its zoning jurisdiction, and shall make as many additional inspections and
reinspections as are necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this
Chapter.
§ 4-710 ACCESS TO ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Health Authority, or his agent, after proper identification, shall be
permitted to enter, at any reasonable time, any food-service establishment
within the Municipality, or its zoning jurisdiction for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this Chapter. He shall be permitted to
examine the records of the establishment to obtain pertinent information
pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used, and persons
employed.
§ 4-711 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   Notices provided for under this Article shall be deemed to have been
properly served when the original of the inspection report form or other notice
has been delivered personally to the permit holder or person in charge, or such
notice has been sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the last known address of the permit holder. A copy of such notice shall be
filed with the records of the Health Authority, or his agent.
§ 4-712 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD.
   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Authority, or his agent, as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or
misbranding. The Health Authority, or his agent, may, upon notice to the owner
or person in charge, place a hold order on any food which he determines or has
probable cause to believe to be unwholesome or otherwise adulterated, or
misbranded. Under a hold order, food shall be permitted to be suitably stored.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a hold order placed on
food by the Health Authority, or his agent, and neither such food nor the
containers thereof shall be relabeled, repacked, reprocessed, altered, disposed
of, or destroyed without permission of the Health Authority, or his agent,
except on order by a court of competent jurisdiction. After the owner or person
in charge has had a hearing as provided for in this Chapter, and on the basis
of evidence produced at such hearing, or on the basis of his examination and in
the event a written request for a hearing is not received within ten (10) days,
the Health Authority, or his agent, may vacate the hold order, or may, by
written order, direct the owner of person in charge of the food which was
placed under the hold order to denature or destroy such food or to bring it
into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter; provided, that such order
of the Health Authority, or his agent, to denature or destroy such food or
bring it into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall be stayed if
the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three (3)
days.
§ 4-713 FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE JURISDICTION OF HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   Food from food-service establishments outside the jurisdiction of the
Municipal Health Authority, or his agent, may be sold within the Municipality,
if such food-service establishments conform to the provisions of this Chapter
or to substantially equivalent provisions. To determine the extent of
compliance with such provisions, the Health Authority, or his agent, may accept
reports from responsible authorities in other jurisdictions where such food-
service establishments are located.
§ 4-714 FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS; CONSTRUCTION.
   When a food-service establishment is hereafter constructed or extensively
remodeled, or when an existing structure is converted for use as a food-service
establishment, property prepared plans and specifications for such
construction, remodeling, or alteration, showing layout, arrangement, and
construction materials of work areas, and the location, size and type of fixed
equipment and facilities, shall be submitted to the Health Authority. or his
agent, for approval before such work is begun.
§ 4-715 INFECTION SUSPECTED.
   When the Health Authority, or his agent, has reasonable cause to suspect the
possibility of diseased transmission from any food-service establishment
employee, the Health Authority, or his agent, shall secure a morbidity history
of the suspected employee, or make such other investigations which may require
any or all of the following measures: (a) The immediate exclusion of the
employee from all food-service establishments; (b) the immediate closure of the
food- service establishment concerned until, in the opinion of the Health
Authority, or his agent, no further danger of disease outbreak exists; (c)
restriction of the employee's services to some area of the establishment where
there would be no danger of transmitting disease, and (d) adequate medical and
laboratory examinations of the employees, and of his and their body discharges.
ARTICLE 8. GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 4-801 GARBAGE; DEFINED.
   The term "garbage" as used herein shall be defined to mean kitchen refuse,
decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become
offensive to the public health.
§ 4-802 RUBBISH; DEFINED.
   The terms "rubbish" or "trash" as used herein shall be defined as discarded
machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees, branches, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or any other litter or debris
that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the
Municipality.
§ 4-803 DEAD ANIMALS; DEFINED.
   The term "dead animals" shall mean all small animals such as cats, dogs and
rabbits, which die from any cause. They shall in no way mean large animals such
as goats, horses, mules and cows which die from any cause.
§ 4-804 REFUSE; DEFINED.
   The term "refuse" shall include the waste material from normal households or
living conditions and business operations other than garbage, but the term
shall not include waste materials from building construction or repair, factory
waste, or refuse from industrial plants of any character. In general, the kinds
of material classed as refuse are paper, rages, bottles, tin cans, bottle caps,
cardboard, worn-out clothing or furniture, household appliances, excelsior,
garden, lawn or tree trimmings, leaves, and other similar materials.
§ 4-805 DETACHABLE CONTAINER; DEFINED.
   The term "detachable container" shall mean a container of the size approved
by the Municipality that can be lifted and dumped by a collection truck
mechanism.
§ 4-806 COLLECTION; DEFINED.
   The term "collection" in a residential district, shall mean not more than
three (30 full thirty-two (32) gallon garbage cans or two (2) full thirty-two
(32) gallon cans and any number of full baskets, boxes, sacks, or bundles equal
in volume to, but not exceeding one (1) thirty-two (32) gallon garbage can.
§ 4-807 WASTE MATERIAL; DEFINED.
   The term "waste material" shall mean all items damaged, defective or
superfluous material produced by a manufacturing process including items within
the definition of garbage, dead animals, rubbish or refuse. (Amended by Ord.
No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-808 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of every owner to remove all garbage, refuse or waste
material which has accumulated on or about said owner's dwelling, building, or
other premises. All garbage receptacles or waste cans shall be kept reasonably
clean and free from offensive odors. All receptacles and cans used for the
collection of garbage and refuse shall be kept on the rear of the lot or at a
convenient place upon the private premises to facilitate the collection
thereof. In no event shall receptacles, cans or storage racks be located or
permitted in the Municipal alleys, easements or other Municipal rights-of-way.
   If garbage cans or receptacles are in a state of disrepair, or do not meet
the requirements of this Article, it shall be the duty of the Chief Health
Enforcement Official to leave notice with the owner thereof directing such
repair or replacement as may be necessary.
   All wet garbage in the residential district shall be securely wrapped in
waste paper or put in paper sacks or containers before placing the same in
garbage cans or receptacles.
   All tree limbs and branches to be picked up as garbage or refuse shall be
cut so that none shall be more than five (5') feet in length and the same shall
be tied in bundles not to exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
   Said owner shall remove all garbage, trash and waste from his property
within three (3) days after being notified in writing to do so by the Municipal
Police Chief who shall represent the Board of Health. Such notice shall be
personally, or by leaving the same at the usual place of residence or business
of such owner.
   In all cases, where the owner of such real estate is a non-resident, notice
shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such owner, and
in that event, the owner of such premises shall have ten (10) days from the
date of mailing thereof within which to comply with such notice.
§ 4-809 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals such as horses, cows, mules and goats, shall be the
property of the owner thereof and shall be promptly hauled away and disposed of
by such owner at no cost to the Municipality.
§ 4-810 CONSTRUCTION WASTE.
   All accumulation of waste occasioned by the construction, alteration,
remodeling, rebuilding, and repairing of buildings or structures shall be
removed and disposed of by the owner or contractor at no expense to the
Municipality and such waste shall not be considered as garbage or refuse within
the meaning of this Chapter.
§ 4-811 RESIDENTIAL PREMISES; SIZE OF RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any residence or premises
where meals are served or where the garbage or refuse is created or accumulated
to provide and keep on the premises suitable and sufficient water-tight, rodent
proof and insect proof metal or plastic receptacles, equipped with a tight
fitting lid and handles or a bale for easy handling. Such receptacles shall not
be larger than thirty-two (32) gallons; provided, that in multi-family
residential areas, detachable containers may be used upon approval of the City
Council.
§ 4-812 NON-RESIDENTIAL PREMISES; SIZE OF RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any non-residential
premises where meals are served or garbage or refuse is created or accumulated
to provide on such premises suitable and sufficient watertight, rodent proof
and insect proof metal or plastic receptacles, equipped with a tight fitting
lid and handles or a bale for easy handling; provided, that other receptacles
made of fiber or pressed board may be used as garbage containers for
restaurants, cafes and other similar businesses if approved by the Department
of Health or such receptacles are protected from the elements and covered so
that the contents will not blow away. Except as provided above, garbage
receptacles in non-residential areas shall not exceed twenty (20) gallons.
Fifty-five (55) gallon barrels or drums shall not be permitted as garbage
receptacles.
§ 4-813 GARBAGE COLLECTION; COLLECTOR'S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to collect and
transport garbage or refuse for hire without first obtaining a license from the
City Clerk. If applicant's equipment proposed to be used is approved by the
City Council as evidenced by an approved Certificate of Inspection and if the
collection service to be maintained and methods of operation meet the
requirements of this Article, as evidenced by an approved Certificate from the
City Council, the City Clerk shall issue such license which shall cost five
($5.00) dollars and be valid for one (1) year from the date of issuance. Such
annual
license shall be automatically renewed by the City Clerk from year to year only
after such applicant has met all of the requirements of this Article.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this Article shall not be
transferable, and no licensee shall permit another by lease, or rental or some
other agreement to engage in such business under the name of such licensee.
   The City Clerk shall not issue any license until he receives a Certificate
of Approval from the City Council certifying the applicant has provided the
City Council with a Certificate of Insurance and Bond.
   If any licensee under this Article violates any of its provisions, the City
Council may summon such violators to appear before the Council and show cause
why his license to collect and transport garbage and refuse should not be
revoked, and the Council, after holding such hearing, may revoke the license of
any such person to engage in such business.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to lawn care businesses or
tree trimmers.
§ 4-814 GARBAGE COLLECTION; VEHICLE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Any vehicle used by a licensee under this Article shall have a packer type
body designed especially for the transportation of garbage and refuse. All
vehicles licensed under this Article shall display a commercially prepared sign
showing the name of the licensee in letters not smaller that four (4") inches
high.
§ 4-815 GARBAGE COLLECTION; INSPECTION AND FEES.
   All collection equipment used by a licensee under this Article is required
to be inspected by a designate of the City Council twice annually. Such
inspection shall be made to determine whether the collection apparatus is
mechanically safe and sound and maintained in a sanitary and neatly painted
condition. Inspection fees shall be five ($5.00) dollars for each vehicle
inspection. Such amount shall be paid at the time the inspection is completed
and the amount credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the person
making the inspection for the City Council to issue an Inspection Certificate
showing the equipment either approved or disapproved. The City Council shall
make any necessary rules and regulations for the administration and enforcement
of this section.
§ 4-816 GARBAGE COLLECTION; INSURANCE AND BOND.
   Each licensed garbage or refuse collector shall maintain in force and
provide the City Clerk with a Certificate of Insurance showing that such
licensee has insurance written by a company or companies authorized to do
business in Nebraska in the following amounts:
   A.   Workmen's Compensation Insurance is compliance with the laws of
Nebraska, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limits of twenty-five
thousand ($25,000.00) dollars.
   B.   Comprehensive General Liability covering operations of the licensee
with limits of not less than one hundred thousand ($100,000.00) dollars on each
person, three hundred thousand ($300,000.00) dollars each occurrence for bodily
injury or death; and property damage limits of not less than forty thousand
($40,000.00) dollars each occurrence and three hundred thousand ($300,000.00)
dollars aggregate.
   C.   Automobile Liability Insurance with minimum limits of one hundred
thousand ($100,000.00) dollars each person and three hundred thousand
($300,000.00) dollars each accident for bodily injury or death, and fifty
thousand ($50,000.00) dollars each accident for property damage.
Each licensed garbage collector shall also maintain in force a bond with a
corporate surety licensed to do business in Nebraska in the amount of five
thousand ($5,000.00) dollars to the Municipality of Wood River and the
residents of the Municipality of Wood River conditioned that the licensed
collector shall fully comply with all provisions of this Article, and
guaranteeing to any resident of the Municipality doing business with such
licensee that the services purchased will be furnished or the money paid
therefore refunded, and further, guaranteeing that such licensee's contract,
whether oral or written, with any resident, shall in all respects be performed.
Action on such bond may be brought in the name of the Municipality to the use
and benefit of the aggrieved person or persons or in the name of the aggrieved
person or persons.
§ 4-817 GARBAGE COLLECTION; SALE OF ROUTE.
   Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to prohibit any
licensee operating under the provision of this Article from selling his garbage
or refuse route and his equipment to another. Purchaser of such garbage route
and such equipment must, however, secure a license to engage in such business
as herein provided and his equipment approved as aforesaid.
§ 4-818 GARBAGE COLLECTION; AREA OF SERVICE.
   It is the intent of the City Council that residents of the Municipality have
a choice of garbage haulers to provide them with garbage collection services.
Garbage licensees shall not be restricted to any specific district or area
within the Municipality.
§ 4-819 GARBAGE COLLECTION; CUSTOMER SERVICES.
   All garbage licensees shall maintain an office in the Municipality of Wood
River with a listed telephone number or an office in another Municipality
containing a toll-free telephone number to the residents of Wood River, for the
purpose of receiving calls and complaints concerning services. Such office
shall be staffed by competent personnel and open to the public Monday through
Friday each week, except holidays, during the hours of eight (8:00) o'clock
A.M. through five (5:00) o'clock P.M. A daily log of service calls and
complaints, and the disposition thereof, shall be maintained by the personnel
staffing such office, and a copy sent to the City Clerk monthly. All licensees
must respond to and correct any complaints during the next working day after
the complaint was received, or in the same workday, if possible.
§ 4-820 GARBAGE COLLECTION; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT COLLECTION TIME.
   It shall be unlawful for any collector of garbage or refuse to start the
collection therefor in residential districts before six (6:00) o'clock A.M. any
day, pursuant to state and federal laws. (Amended by Ord. No. 516, 9/8/09)
§ 4-821 GARBAGE COLLECTION; UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   The provisions of this Article shall not be construed to prevent a person
from collecting and transporting his own garbage, refuse and waste materials in
his own vehicle from the residence in which he lives to the Municipal or County
Landfill site. Any person can collect and transport his own garbage, refuse and
waste materials from his own business or commercial property; provided, that
the wagon, truck, automobile or other vehicle used in the transportation of
such garbage, refuse and waste materials is a watertight metal box or body so
as to prevent seepage or leakage on the streets and alleys, and is completely
covered or the material hauled thereon securely fastened so as to prevent the
garbage, refuse and waste materials from being blown away or jarred off such
vehicle, and the vehicle used for such purposes has been approved by the City
Council.
§ 4-822 GARBAGE COLLECTION; RESIDENTIAL FEES.
   The maximum monthly rates which may be charged by one holding a garbage
collector's license pursuant to the provisions of the Wood River Code based
upon one (1) collection per week for residences shall be ten dollars and
seventy-five cents ($10.75) per month per residential living unit. The garbage
licensee and his customers may negotiate a reduced rate for lesser services.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 217, 9/22/81; 254, 2/7/84; 271, 12/3/85; 308, 5/2/89;
355, 8/17/93)
§ 4-823 GARBAGE COLLECTION; NONRESIDENTIAL FEES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 396, 9/10/96)
§ 4-824 GARBAGE COLLECTION; SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   The collection of larger quantities of garbage, rubbish, refuse and waste
materials specified by this Article from premises where situated, a charge of
not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour shall be paid for
each person engaged in the collection of such material. (Amended by Ord. No.
512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-825 GARBAGE COLLECTION; LANDFILL DISPOSAL.
   All persons operating in the disposal of garbage, rubbish, refuse and waste
materials shall use an approved land site, such land site being approved by the
City Council. (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-826 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, WASTE MATERIAL AND REFUSE COLLECTION; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body for the City may provide for the collection and removal
of garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste material upon any lot of land within its
corporate limits or upon any roads or alleys abutting such lot or land which
constitutes a public nuisance. The City may require the owner, duly authorized
agent, or tenant of such lot or land to remove the garbage, rubbish, refuse or
waste material from such lot of land and streets, roads, or alleys. (Ref. 18-
1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 303, 1/17/89) (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-827 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND WASTE MATERIAL COLLECTION; NOTICE;
REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage, rubbish, waste material or refuse is
necessary shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to
the tenant, if any. Such notice shall be provided by personal service or by
certified mail. After providing such notice, the City through its proper
offices shall, in addition to other property remedies, remove the garbage,
rubbish, waste material or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from such lot or
land and streets, roads or alleys. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 303, 1/17/
89) (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-828 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND WASTE MATERIAL COLLECTION; NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor or City Council declares that the accumulation of such garbage,
rubbish, refuse or waste material upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate
nuisance and hazard to public health and safety, the City shall cause the
removal of the garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste material from such lot or land
within forty-eight (48) hours after notice by personal service or following
receipt of a certified letter in accordance with the provisions of §
4-827, if such garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste material has not been removed
in response to the Notice for Removal.  (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 303,
1/17/89)  (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-829 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND WASTE MATERIAL COLLECTION; LIEN.
   Whenever the City removes any garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste material or
causes it to be removed from any lot or land pursuant to this Article, it
shall, after a hearing conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the
removal against such lot or land and may file with the Register of Deeds a
Notice of Assessment of the collection costs winch shall operate as a lien
against the lot or land. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 303, 1/17/89)
(Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-830 USE OF CITY COMPOST AREA BY RESIDENTS AND UTILITY CUSTOMERS.
   (1)   Any resident of the City living within the boundaries thereof, or a
City utility customer, shall be entitled to dump grass, leaves, and branches at
the City Compost Area with an initial ten dollar ($10.00) charge and fifteen
dollar ($15.00) per year thereafter, billed on January 1 of each year. Any
resident so defined who authorizes another to make use of his status as a city
resident shall automatically have their privilege to make use of the City
Compost Area revoked for a period of one year and upon completion of said
period of revocation, shall pay a sixty dollar ($60.00) reinstatement fee and
privilege fee to use said facility each year thereafter.
   (2)   Illegal Dumping. Any person who dumps or deposits any item of refuse
other than grass, leaves, and branches at the City Compost Area; or any person
who is not a City Compost Area permit holder, who deposits any refuse including
grass, leaves and branches at the City Compost Area shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) together with court costs. (Ord. No. 443, 4/16/02)
ARTICLE 9. NUISANCES
§ 4-901 NUISANCES; GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   1.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   2.   Offends decency;
   3.   Is offensive to the senses;
   4.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any sidewalk, stream, public park, park way, square,
street, or highway in the municipality. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-902 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omission, places, conditions and things are hereby
declared to be nuisances:
   1.   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl;
   2.   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   3.   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   4.   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the Municipality;
   5.   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings and
offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity;
provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of the
Municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
   6.   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron, wire
metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken
glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be
kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   7.   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   8.   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a manage to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   9.   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of
any kind, or of any of the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any
machinery or equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons,
which said places are kept or maintained so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or which are so
unsightly as to tend to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   10.   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   11.   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grains being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the Municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   12.   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code, to include offensive accumulation of garbage, rubbish, refuse and
waste material. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 7/22/08)
§ 4-903 NUISANCES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee of real
estate in the Municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances.
Upon determination by the Board of Health that said owner, occupant, lessee, or
mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate free of public nuisances, the
Governing Body shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof, by publication and by certified
mail. Such notice shall describe the condition as found by the Board of Health
and state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the
condition must be remedied at once. If the person receiving the notice has not
complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of the Board of
Health within five (5) days after receipt of certified mail or within five (5)
days after date of publication whichever is later, the Board of Health shall
notify the Governing Body of such noncompliance and the Governing Body shall,
upon receipt of such notice, cause a hearing date to be fixed and notice
thereof to be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee, or agent
of the real estate. Such notice of hearing shall be by personal service or
certified mail and require such party or parties to appear before the Governing
Body to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. A return of service shall be required by the Governing
Body. Such notice shall be given not less than five (5) days prior to the time
of hearing, provided that whenever the owner, lessee, occupant, or mortgagee of
such real estate is a non-resident or cannot be found in the State, then the
Municipal Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality, such notice of hearing for two (2) consecutive weeks, the last
publication to be at least one (1) week prior to the date set for the hearing.
Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to notice, the Governing Body
shall hear all objections made by interested parties and shall hear evidence
submitted by the Board of Health. If after consideration of all of the
evidence, the Governing Body shall find that the said condition is a public
nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant,
lessee, or mortgagee to remedy the said public nuisance at once; Provided, the
party or parties may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the Governing Body shall
be stayed. Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply
with the order of the Governing Body, the Governing Body shall proceed to cause
the abatement of the described public nuisance. Upon completion of the work by
the Municipality, a statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to
the Governing Body, which is authorized to bill the property owner or occupant,
or to levy the cost as a special assessment against the land. Such special
assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the
manner provided for special assessments. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-903.01 NUISANCES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 4-904 NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the Municipality are directed to enforce
this Municipal Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
Chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within two (2) miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-905 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Governing Body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
Municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial. (Ref. 19-710 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 275, 12/17/85)
ARTICLE 10. PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-1001 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
§ 4-1002 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
4.   MINIBIKES AND SNOWMOBILES
      
5.   ATVS, UTVS, AND GOLF CARTS
      
6.   PARKING
      
7.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this Chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Chapter 39 of the
Reissued Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or hereafter
amended. If not defined in the designated statute, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning. (Ref. 39-602 RS Neb.)
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic. (Ref. 60-607 RS Neb.)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department and of the
Police Department of the Municipality and ambulances. (Ref. 60-610 RS Neb.)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Includes all areas zoned as BGC.Central General Business
District, BG- General Business District and IL- Light Industrial.
   CURB. The lateral boundaries of that portion of a street designated for the
use of vehicles whether marked by curb stones or not so marked.
   DRIVE. To ride, lead, pull, push, propel, or operate a vehicle.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Every person who operates, drives or is in the actual
physical control of a vehicle. (Ref. 60-642 RS Neb.)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, avenue,
or way which is publicly maintained and open for public vehicular traffic.
(Ref. 60-624 RS Neb.)
   INTERSECTION or STREET INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines or, if there are no
lateral curb lines, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two (2) or
more highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict. When a highway includes two (2) roadways
thirty (30) feet or more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such
divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate
intersection. In the event such intersecting highway also includes two (2)
roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart, then every crossing of two (2)
roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection, The
junction of an alley with a highway shall not constitute an intersection. (Ref.
60-627 RS Neb.)
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every land vehicle which is self-propelled and not operated
upon rails except mopeds and self-propelled invalid chairs and electric
personal assistive devices. (Ref. 60-638 RS Neb.)
   MUFFLER. A device consisting of a series of chamber or baffle plates, or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine, and effective in reducing noise.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS OR DEVICES. All signs, markings, and devices, other
than mechanical or electrical signals, not inconsistent with this Chapter,
placed or erected by authority of the Governing Body for the purpose of
directing, warning, or regulating traffic. (Ref. 60-671 RS Neb.)
   OWNER. With respect to a vehicle, shall mean a person, other than a person
holding a security interest, having the property in or title to a vehicle,
including a person entitled to the use and possession of a vehicle subject to a
security interest in another person, but excluding a lessee under a lease not
intended as security. (Ref. 60-644 RS Neb.)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers. (Ref. 60-645 RS Neb.)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any town marshal, chief of police, local police officer,
sheriff, or deputy sheriff, the Superintendent of Law Enforcement and Public
Safety, or any officer of the Nebraska State Patrol and shall also include
members of the National Guard on active service by direction of the Governor
during periods of emergency or civil disorder and Game and Parks Commission
conservation officers while in areas under the control of the Game and Parks
Commission. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic. (Ref. 60-646 RS
Neb.)
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY or PRIVATE ROAD. Every way or place in private ownership
and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons. (Ref. 60-649 RS Neb.)
   RAILWAY CROSSING. That part of any street at which the tracks of a railway
or railroad company shall cross said street and twenty-five (25) feet on either
side of said tracks on a street.
   RAILROAD SIGN. Railroad sign or signal shall mean any sign, signal, or
device erected by authority of a public body or official or by a railroad
intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a
railroad train. (Ref, 60-651 RS Neb.)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Includes all parts of the Municipality not included in
the Business District.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other. (Ref. 60-655 RS Neb.)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines intended for pedestrian use. (Ref. 60-662 RS Neb.)
   STOP. To cause complete cessation of movement. (Ref. 60-667 RS Neb.)
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, avenue,
or way which is publicly maintained and open for public vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks. (Ref. 60-136 RS Neb.)
   SEMITRAILER. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed to carry
persons or property and to be drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that
some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle. (Ref. 60-660 RS Neb.)
   TRAILER. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle. (Ref. 60-673 RS Neb.)
   TRUCK -TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, (Ref. 60-675 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 566, 5/19/20)
ARTICLE 2. MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 5-201 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 39-6,189 RS Neb.)
§ 5-201.1 PROHIBITION OF TRUCKS EXCEEDING GROSS WEIGHT OF 15 TON ON EAST
STREET.
   (1)   No person shall operate a truck on East Street within the corporate
limits from the intersection of 7th Street to Shultz Road (also known as 3rd
Street).
   (2)   Designated signs prohibiting truck traffic in excess of the weight
limits shall be placed on such roadway by the City's Street Superintendent.
   (3)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
as provided in §
6-401 of the Wood River Municipal Code and subject to prosecution accordingly.
(Ord. No. 523, 11/8/11
§ 5-202 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the Municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-203 TRAFFIC LANE; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-204 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-205 TURNING; "U" TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Ref. 39-651, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-206 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 39-650 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-207 RIGHT-OF-WAY; GENERALLY.
    When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal
Policeman stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or
audible signals. (Ref. 39-635 through 39-643 RS Neb.)
§ 5-208 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one half (1/
2) of the main traveled portion of the roadway. (Ref. 39-620 RS Neb.)
§ 5-209 CROSSWALKS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-210 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition. (Ref. 39-609
through 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-211 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible. (Ref. 39-609 through 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 3. PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering. (Ref. 39-683 RS Neb.)
§ 5-302 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 39-619 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-303 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice. (Ref. 39-618 RS Neb.)
§ 5-304 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
at a rate of speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour within the
residential district, and twenty (20) miles per hour within the business
district, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by
ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Ref. 39-662, 39-663 RS Neb.)
§ 5-304.01 SPEED LIMITS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on U. S. Highway No. 30 from a
point two hundred (200) feet east of the intersection of Pine Street and U.S.
Highway No. 30 on the east to the intersection of State Highway No. 11 and U.S.
Highway 30 on the west at a rate of speed greater than thirty-five (35) miles
per hour.
   (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on U.S. Highway 30 at a rate
of speed greater than fifty (50) miles per hour in a speed zone commencing at a
point two hundred (200) feet east of the intersection of U.S. Highway 30 and
Pine Street within said Municipality and continuing in an easterly direction to
the eastern corporate limits of the City at the intersection of U.S. Highway 30
and 130th Road.
   (3)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon Nebraska Highway 11
within the corporate limits of the City of Wood River, Nebraska, at a rate of
speed in excess of forty (40) miles per hour.
   (4)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the provisions
of this section shall be deemed guilty of a traffic infraction and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each offense. (Ord. No. 204) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 398, 6/3/97; 552, 10/17/
17)
§ 5-304.02 SPEED LIMIT; 15 MILE-PER-HOUR SPEED ZONE; STOP REQUIRED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (1)   The speed limit on Eighth Street from Cottonwood to West Street is
hereby designated a 15-mile-per-hour speed zone. Vehicular traffic on both
Eighth Street and Marshall Street be required to stop before proceeding through
the intersection of said streets within the Municipality. (Ord. No. 365, 4/19/
94)
   (2)   The speed limit on 11th Street and on 10th Street between Walnut
Street and Lilly Street within the Municipality is hereby designated a 15-mile-
per-hour speed zone during period when children are present. The speed limit on
Walnut and Lilly Streets between 10th Street and 11th Street is also hereby
designated a 15-mile-per-hour speed zone during periods of time when children
are present. (Ord. No. 458, 6/17/03)
§ 5-305 SPEED, NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall stop
at all stop signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be
unlawful for such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop
signs are located at, or near, such school premise. (Ref. 39-663 RS Neb.)
§ 5-306 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based upon the
visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated by the
use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such radio
microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as competent
evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal proceeding
when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the Municipality may offer in
evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic speed
measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor vehicle, the
Municipality shall prove the following:
   A.   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
   B.   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under such
conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
   C.   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement was
qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the device;
and
   D.   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the measuring
device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an arrest
being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working order.
   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant under
the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or displays
his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have observed
the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio microwaves, or
other electronic device or had received a radio message from the officer who
observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves or
other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such a message,
such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the speed of the
motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a description of the vehicle
and the recorded speed. (Ref. 39-664 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 244, 1/3/84)
§ 5-307 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one half (1½) lengths of the vehicle.
(Ref. 39-675, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-308 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Ref. 39-672, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-309 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street. (Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§ 5-310 PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle. (Ref. 39-622 RS Neb.)
§ 5-311 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two (2) or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. (Ref. 39-628, 39-694 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-312 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street. (Ref. 39-629 RS Neb.)
§ 5-313 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred (500') feet, or drive into,
or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (Ref. 39-681 RS Neb.)
§ 5-314 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle. (Ref. 39-
677 RS Neb.)
§ 5-315 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway. (Ref. 39-676 RS Neb.)
§ 5-316 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise of such character, intensity and duration as
to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the Municipality.
§ 5-317 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this Municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise as
provided in the previous section. It shall be unlawful to use a "muffler cut-
out" on any motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-6,137, 60-
2209 RS Neb.)
§ 5-318 MOTOR VEHICLE; WRONGFUL TAKING.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile, or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law. (Ref. 28-521 RS Neb.)
§ 5-319 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies. (Ref. 60-435 RS Neb.)
§ 5-320 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer. (Ref. 39-6,192 RS Neb.)
§ 5-321 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-322 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Governing Body or the Municipal Police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection. (Ref. 39-669.21, 39-697, 39-
6,192 RS Neb.)
§ 5-323 BICYCLE; OPERATION.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway
of this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from one
half (1/2) hour after sunset and one half (1/2) hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than five hundred (500') feet indicating the approach or presence
of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or
without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five hundred
(500') feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a clear, white
light.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting. (Ref. 39-688, 39-690, 39-691 RS Neb.)
§ 5-324 MOTORCYCLE; HELMET.
   Commencing January 1, 1989, a person shall not operate or be a passenger on
a motorcycle or moped on any highway, as defined in section 39-602 R.S. Neb.,
unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such helmet is
secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the vehicle is in
motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to the
user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to protect the user by
remaining on the user's head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration, and
spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist of lining,
padding, visor, and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation's Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Ref. 39-669.26 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 301, 1/17/89)
§ 5-325 ENGINE BRAKING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful within the City limits for any operator of a motor
vehicle with a total gross vehicle weight rating of seven thousand (7,000)
pounds or more, including its towed unit or units, to attempt to retard the
forward movement of said vehicle by initiating a device, commonly known as
"Jake Brakes" to contain the engine's compression, thus rapidly slowing the
engine's revolutions per minute. (Ord. No. 504, 11/20/07)
ARTICLE 4. MINIBIKES AND SNOWMOBILES
§ 5-401 MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the Municipality. For purposes of this
Article, "minibike" shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than fourteen (14") inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than forty-five (45) cubic centimeters displacement or a seat
height less than twenty-five (25") inches from the ground. It shall similarly
be unlawful for any person to operate any other motor vehicle and off-road
recreational vehicles of any and all types that are not licensed as provided by
law upon the streets or highways within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 196, 3/25/
80)
§ 5-402 MINIBIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational or community service
organization. (Ref. 60-2102 RS Neb.)
§ 5-403 MINIBIKES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
Municipality except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref.
60-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 5-404 SNOWMOBILES; EQUIPMENT.
   Every snowmobile operated within the Municipality shall be registered with
the State of Nebraska, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon
a public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp,
one tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square
inches mounted on each side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as
prescribed by the Director of Motor Vehicles.
   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply to
snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application. (Ref. 60-2002, 60-2013 RS Neb.)
§ 5-405 SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him, to be operated:
   1.   Within the congested area of the Municipality unless weather conditions
are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel,
or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency.
   2.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances.
   3.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person or
property.
   4.   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be required
by conditions.
   5.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock.
   6.   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands. (Ref. 60-2013, 60-2015 RS Neb.)
§ 5-406 SNOWMOBILES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body.
(Ref. 60-2016 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5. ATVS, UTVS, AND GOLF CARTS
§ 5-501 DEFINITIONS.
   1.   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV) means any motorized off-highway vehicle which
is:
      (a)   Fifty inches (50) or less in width;
      (b)   Has a dry weight of twelve hundred (1,200) pounds or less;
      (c)   Travels on three (3) or more non-highway tires; and
      (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one (1)
passenger.
      ATVS are declared to be motor vehicles subject to rules of the road and
traffic laws in addition to this Chapter.
   2.   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE (UTV) means any motorized off-highway vehicle
which is:
      (a)   Seventy-four (74) inches in width or less;
      (b)   Not more than one hundred eighty (180) inches, including the
bumper, in length;
      (c)   Has a dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less; and
      (d)   Travels on four (4) or more non-highway tires.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-terrain vehicles, golf cart
vehicles, or low-speed vehicles as the same are defined by Nebraska law. UTVs
are declared to be motor vehicles subject to rules of the road and traffic laws
in addition to this Chapter.
   3.   GOLF CART VEHICLE means a vehicle that has:
      (a)   At least four (4) wheels,
      (b)   A maximum level ground speed of less than twenty (20) miles per
hour;
      (c)   A maximum payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
pounds;
      (d)   A maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred (2,500)
pounds;
      (e)   A maximum passenger capacity of not more than four (4) persons; and
      (f)   Is designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for
sporting and recreational purposes.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-502 OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT.
   1.   ATVs and UTVs may be operated upon City streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the City only if the operator and vehicle are in compliance
with the following provisions in addition to the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
Municipal Codes:
      (a)   ATVs and UTVs must be registered with City Hall as provided in this
Article, unless the same is owned by the City itself.
      (b)   ATVs and UTVs may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset and shall not be operated at a speed faster than thirty (30) miles per
hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is less. When in operation the
headlights and taillights of the vehicle shall be on, and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a safety flag which extend no less than five (5) feet above the
ground when attached to the rear of such vehicle. The flag shall be day-glow in
color, triangular in shape, and of a size with an area of not less than thirty
(30) square inches.
   2.   Golf carts may be operated upon City streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the City only if the operator and vehicle are in compliance
with the following provisions in addition to the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
Municipal Codes:
      (a)   Golf carts must be registered with City Hall as provided in this
Article, unless the same is owned by the City itself.
      (b)   Golf carts may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset and shall not be operated at a speed faster than twenty (20) miles per
hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is less. When in operation the
headlights and taillights of the vehicle shall be on, and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a safety flag which extend no less than five (5) feet above the
ground when attached to the rear of such vehicle. The flag shall be day-glow in
color, triangular in shape, and of a size with an area of not less than thirty
(30) square inches.
   3.   Any person operating ATVs, UTVs, and golf carts as authorized by this
Article shall:
      (a)   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
      (b)   Have a valid Class O operator’s license;
      (c)   Have liability insurance coverage for the ATV, UTV or golf cart
while in operation upon a street or highway and provide such insurance proof of
coverage upon the demand of any peace officer requesting such proof; such
insurance shall be within the limits stated in Neb. RS § 60-509, as amended
from time to time;
      (d)   If operating, or riding on, an ATV, wear a helmet approved for
lawful operation of a motorcycle in the State of Nebraska, and allow no
passengers unless the vehicle is designed by the manufacturer for one
passenger, in which case one passenger is allowed; and,
      (e)   If operating, or riding on, a UTV, utilize manufacturer installed
seat belts or wear a helmet approved for lawful operation of a motorcycle in
the State of Nebraska.
   4.   ATVs and UTVs shall be equipped with:
      (a)   A braking system maintained in good operating condition;
      (b)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition and without a
cutout, bypass or similar device, or any modifications to the muffler system
which increases the volume of the noise of the exhaust system;
      (c)   A United States Forest Service-qualified spark arrester.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-503 USAGE IN PARADES; USAGE ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS.
   ATVs, UTVs, and golf carts may be operated without complying with the
requirements of this Article only (1) during parades which have been authorized
by the State or any department, board, commission, or political subdivision of
the State, and (2) on sidewalks if the operator is removing snow from the
sidewalk.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-504 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAYS AND OFF-LIMIT STREETS.
   ATVs, UTVs, and golf carts shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes shall not
be permitted. Unless engaged by the City for municipal government purposes, it
shall be unlawful to operate ATVs, UTVs or golf carts anywhere on Highway 30,
Highway 11, or the pedestrian bridge crossing the railroad tracks.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-505 CROSSING HIGHWAYS.
   For the purpose of this Article, the crossing of a highway shall be
permitted only if:
   1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90) degrees
perpendicular to the direction of travel being made on such highway and at a
place where no obstruction prevents a timely and safe crossing;
   2.   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing shoulder or
roadway of said highway;
   3.   The operator yields the right of way to all traffic which constitutes
an immediate or potential hazard;
   4.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing shall only be made at an
intersection of another highway or roadway; and,
   5.   Both headlights and taillights must be on when crossing is made.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-506 REGISTRATION.
   Only ATVs, UTVs, golf carts registered pursuant to this Article, or owned by
the City, shall be authorized for operation on streets or highways within the
corporate limits of the City. A registration sticker shall be issued by the
City upon the owner submitting the following:
   1.   A completed Application for Registration, including acknowledgment that
the ATV, UTV or golf cart is in compliance with the equipment requirements
identified by this Article;
   2.   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the vehicle specifically
listing the vehicle as referenced by serial number and year of model year,
make, model, and serial number; and,
   3.   A fifty dollar ($50.00) annual fee for registration of the vehicle.
   The registration sticker shall entitle the ATV, UTV or golf cart to be
operated on the streets and highways of the City as provided in this Article
during the calendar year of issuance. The annual fee will not be prorated and
is not transferrable. No refunds shall be allowed for any reason.
   A reflecting, self-destructing sticker with an assigned number will be
provided to the registering owner upon registration of such vehicle pursuant to
this Article. This registration sticker shall be affixed on the vehicle’s lower
driver’s side windshield if equipped, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a
windshield, then the sticker shall be affixed on the driver’s side front of
such vehicle. A duplicate sticker at a cost of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) may
be issued by the City in the event of a lost or destroyed registration sticker.
Replacement stickers shall be issued solely at the City’s discretion.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-507 ACCIDENT; REPORT REQUIRED.
   If an accident results an injury to any person resulting in the examination
or treatment of the injured person by a physician, or results in the death of
any person, then the operator of each ATV, UTV or golf cart involved in the
accident shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided Neb.
RS § 60-699.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-508 PENALTY; IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual physical
control of any all-terrain vehicle upon the traveled portion of any public
roadway within the corporate limits of the City of Wood River except as
specifically authorized and permitted pursuant to this Article.
   Any person found to be in violation of this Article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
up to a maximum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each separate
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
   Any person receiving three (3) or more citations within any twelve (12)
month period shall, upon conviction of the third or subsequent offense, have
his or her permit to operate an ATV, UTV or golf cart within the City limits
revoked for a period of one (1) year from the date of conviction. Upon
completion of the revocation period, said person must reapply for a permit in
order to operate an ATV, UTV or golf cart within the City limits.
(Ord. No. 578, 9/6/22)
ARTICLE 6. PARKING
§ 5-601 VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral. (Ref. 60-6,168 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-602 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within twelve (12) inches of the curb
or edge of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four (4) feet between the
vehicle so parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the Governing
Body designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the
front right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are
designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such
stalls; provided, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
vehicles loading or unloading freight, merchandise, equipment or materials to a
commercial establishment during normal business hours, but only for a period of
time as might be necessary to load and unload. (Ref. 60-6,167, 60-680 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 197, 5/6/80; 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-603 PARKING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle on the north side of Highway 30 between
Main Street and East Street. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to park any
motor vehicle at any time upon Pine Street longer than a period of time
necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-604 PARKING; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 60-6,167,
60-680 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-605 PARKING; AREAS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-606 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-607 PARKING; ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one half (½) hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-608 PARKING; TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck-tractor, semitrailer,
truck or trailer, regardless of length, to park said vehicle within a street
intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private driveway, on a sidewalk, or
for a period of time in excess of seventy-two (72) hours upon specifically
designated parking lots provided by the Municipality. The Governing Body may,
by resolution, provide truck parking areas within the Municipality and when
such parking areas are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to
use such parking areas in a manner and fashion consistent with this Article.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 341, 8/6/91; 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/
6/22)
§ 5-609 PARKING; STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within twenty-five (25) feet of the intersection or curb
lines, or if none, then within fifteen (15) feet of the intersection of
property lines, nor where said curb lines are painted red to indicate such
prohibition.
(Ref. 60-6,166 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-610 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive,
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-611 PARKING; CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the Governing Body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Ref. 60-6,167 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-612 PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent to cause the curb space to
be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the Municipality through its proper officers, at the direction
of the Governing Body.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-613 PARKING; DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this Municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this Municipality, except in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-614 PARKING; MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over forty-eight (48)
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-615 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY;
RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING; PROVISIONS FOR TOWING VIOLATING VEHICLES AND CHARGING
THEREFOR.
   (A)   The Mayor of the Municipality, or the President of the City Council,
in the absence of the Mayor, after consultation with the Utilities
Superintendent, may declare a snow emergency to exist when the snow depth and
prevailing weather conditions appear to be so severe that they will create a
condition that continued parking of vehicles upon Municipal streets will
interfere with snow removal operations of Municipal crews. Once the Mayor or
President of the Council has created a snow emergency, that fact shall be
posted on the City's website and other City social media accounts and may
notify appropriate broadcast media, for broadcast. Six (6) hours after the
declaration that a snow emergency exists, all motor vehicles, equipment and
trailers shall be removed from the streets within the Municipality so that snow
removal operations can commence; provided, parking will be permitted after the
declaration of the snow emergency prior to the expiration of the snow emergency
if such streets have been cleared. The snow emergency declaration shall
continue until such time as the Utilities Superintendent has notified the Mayor
or President of the Council that there is no further need to continue the
emergency status. Upon the lifting of the snow emergency, the City shall post
to its website and other City social media accounts and appropriate broadcast
media.
   (B)   Any person parking a motor vehicle, equipment or trailer in violation
of this section during the time that a snow emergency has been declared, shall
be subject to the penalties provided in this Chapter, and such motor vehicle,
equipment or trailer may be removed from the Municipal streets and parked under
the supervision of the Municipal Police at a suitable location, and such
vehicle, equipment or trailer shall be maintained under the control of the
Municipal Police until the owner or operator thereof has paid a removal fee in
the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the towing of said vehicle.
(Amended by Ord. Nos, 255, 12/4/84; 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-616 PARKING; BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the office of the Municipal Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for
non-moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk,
whose duty it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and
accurate records of all such fines paid to him. Fines shall be payable at the
office of the Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each violation if paid within thirty (30) days from the date of
issuance. Should any such fine not be paid within the thirty- (30) day period,
the Clerk shall ask the Municipal Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court. The fine for any such violation after thirty (30) days or
after judgment is entered against the violator shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) plus court costs. All money collected by the Municipal Clerk
under this section shall be transferred to the school district in which the
Municipality lies.
(Ref. 18-1729 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-617 PARKING; TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations
contained in this Chapter shall be issued on a Uniform Citation as prescribed
by the Nebraska Supreme Court.
(Ref. 29-423 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-618 PARKING; TRUCKS TRANSPORTING GASOLINE AND TOXIC CHEMICALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any truck-tractor, tank
wagon or truck used for the transportation of gasoline, anhydrous ammonia,
propane or other combustible or toxic gas or chemical to park such tractor-
trailer, tank wagon or truck on any private property within residential areas
in the Municipality for a period of time in excess of one (1) hour.
(Ord. No. 220, 9 /22/81) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-619 PARKING; SEMI-TRAILERS, DOLLY DOWN PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any truck-tractor, semi-
trailer or truck, or any agent or employee of any such owner or operator to
park such truck-tractor or semi-trailer on the streets in the Municipality with
the dolly of said trailer in a down position. The fine for any such violation
shall be one hundred dollars ($100,00).
(Ord. No. 220, 9/22/81) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-620 PARKING; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND VESSELS ON PUBLIC STREETS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or bailee, of a
recreational vehicle, or recreational vessel, as hereinafter defined, to park
or store such recreational vehicle on the public streets of the Municipality,
except as provided herein.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, recreational vehicles and vessels
shall include and be defined as follows:
      (1)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A general term applying to the following
specific vehicle types:
         (a)   CAMPER TRAILER. A folding or collapsible vehicle structure
without its own motor power, designed as temporary living quarters for travel,
camping, recreation and vacation use, and eligible to be licensed and
registered for highway use;
         (b)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A rigid vehicular structure, without its own
motor power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation
or vacation use, and eligible to be licensed or registered for highway use;
         (c)   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit built on, or as a part of, a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or traveling use, which is eligible to be
licensed or registered for highway use;
         (d)   BOAT TRAILER. A vehicular structure without its own motor power
designed to transport a boat for recreational use, which is eligible to be
licensed or registered for highway use;
         (e)   HORSE TRAILER. A vehicular structure without its own motor
power, not exceeding twenty (20) feet in length, eight (8) feet in width, and
ten and one-half (10½) feet in height, designed primarily for the
transportation of horses, which.in combination with the carrying vehicle, is
eligible to be licensed or registered for highway use;
         (f)   UTILITY TRAILER. A vehicular structure without its own motor
power, not exceeding twenty (20) feet in length, eight (8) feet in width and
ten and one-half (10½) feet in height, designed or used primarily for the
transportation of all manner of motor vehicles, goods or materials, and
eligible to be licensed and registered for highway use.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VESSEL. A term applying to all manner of water craft,
whether impelled by wind, oars, or mechanical devices, and which is designed
primarily for recreational or vacation use.
   (C)   This Article shall not prohibit the temporary parking of any
recreational vehicle or recreational vessel for loading or unloading purposes,
provided such temporary parking shall be for a period not to exceed twenty-four
(24) hours on public streets. Further, no recreational vehicle or recreational
vessel shall be parked for loading or unloading purposes more than twenty-four
(24) hours in a weekly period. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply
with the enforcement of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of section
5-601 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 268, 9/17/85) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-621 PARKING; REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any Police Officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley or upon a parking lot provided by the Municipality in violation
of any of the provisions of this Article, such individual may remove or have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to remove such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of such street or
alley or from such street or alley or from such parking lot provided by the
Municipality.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicles.
(Ref. 39-671, 39-697 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 264, 2/19/85) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
302,1/17/89; 341,8/6/91; 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-622 PARKING; TRUCK-TRACTOR AND TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a loaded tractor-truck,
semi-trailer or truck upon any street within the Municipality. This parking
prohibition shall not apply to a tractor-truck and semi-trailer used for
purpose of delivering or collecting goods, wares, merchandise or materials for
a limited period of time no longer than is necessary for the expeditious
delivery or collecting of goods, wares, merchandise or materials and in no
event for a period of time exceeding two (2) hours.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to park and unload truck-
tractor and trailer upon a street in a location that is not at least sixty (60)
feet from the intersecting curve line or edge of roadway of an intersecting
street.
   (C)   Any violator of this provision shall be given notice in the form of an
official Uniform Citation attached to the offending motor vehicle, which notice
shall require such violator to appear at the City Clerk's Office to pay a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation. All such fines must be
paid at the Office of the City Clerk within five (5) days of issuance or
persons receiving such Uniform Citation for violation of this provision shall
be in violation of this Code and subject to the penalties of this Code.
(Ord. No. 339, 5/7/91) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-623 PARKING; ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to encroach into and upon all sidewalks, streets,
avenues, alleys and other city property. Encroachments may include, snow, ice,
mud, recreational equipment and other obstructions.
(Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
§ 5-624 PARKING; OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All parking spaces for single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings,
apartments, townhouses and mobile homes shall be defined as a hard cleanable
surface which is to be paved with crushed rock, asphalt or concrete. Off-street
parking means off street areas and spaces designed uses required or intended to
be used for parking, including driveways or access ways in and to such areas.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 566, 5/19/20; 578, 9/6/22)
ARTICLE 7. PENAL PROVISION
§ 5-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Amended by Ord. No. 578, 9/
6/22)
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   DOMESTIC ANIMALS
      
2.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
      
3.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
      
4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 6-101 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Article, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature other than human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. This shall mean an entity, City Council and Mayor,
authorized to enforce the animal control laws of the Municipality.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY OFFICER. This means any individual employed,
appointed, or authorized by the Animal Control Authority for the purpose of
aiding in the enforcement of this Article or any other law or ordinance
relating to the licensing of animals, control of animals, or seizure and
impoundment of animals and shall include any state or local law enforcement or
contracting agency whose duties in whole or in part include assignments that
involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the City or the contracting agency
for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of
this Article.
   CONTRACTING AGENCY. The person, association, or partnership with which the
City has contracted to enforce the provisions of this Article.
   CONTRACTING AGENCY OFFICER. Any police officer, Health Department employee,
Humane Society employee or employee of the contracting agency who is performing
the duty of enforcing the provision of this Article.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that, according to the records of the Humane
Society or other contracting agency:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the animal
was off the owner's property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous animal
by a Humane Society officer or other contracting agency and the owner has
received notice of such determination and such animal again aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not
be defined as a dangerous dog if the threat, any injury that is not a severe
injury, or the damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass or any other tort upon the property of the owner
of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who has, in the
past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a dog, cat, ferret or livestock.
   ENCLOSURE. Any tract of laud intended to retrain or contain an animal by
means of a building, fence, or any other means.
   ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION AREA. The Article shall be enforced only within the
corporate limits of the City of Wood River.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. An agency with which the City contracts to enforce the
provisions of this Article.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. The Central Nebraska Humane Society with which the City may
contract to enforce the provisions of this Article.
   MUNICIPAL ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. This means any individual employed,
appointed, or authorized by the Animal Control Authority for the purpose of
aiding in the enforcement of this Article or any other law or ordinance
relating to the licensing of animals, control of animals, or seizure and
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for five (5) consecutive days or more.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business except for a licensed kennel
that buys, sells, or boards any species of animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property;
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific domestic animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or other domestic animals.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal seemed by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person's commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner. Residence. The structure used as a domicile by a
person or a family.
   RUNNING-AT-LARGE. Any domestic animal off the premises of the owner and not
under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining the
animal by holding a leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable
means of physical restraint. If the animal is out of doors on the premises of
the owner, the animal shall be adequately controlled.
   SCRATCH. Any scraping with the claws by an animal which causes an abrasion,
puncture or wound of the skin.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury to a person that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery, or one (1) or more
broken bones, or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of a
victim.
   SHELTER. Any structure with a roof and walls designed and/or intended to
house one (1) or more animals.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL or VETERINARY CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and
operated by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of
diseased and injured animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live animal normally found living in a state of nature and
not normally subjected to domestication, including but not limited to monkeys,
raccoons, skunks, snakes, and lions, but excluding birds. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/
08)
§ 6-102 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DOG LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six
(6) months within the Municipality shall pay an annual pet license fee for said
dog. Such fee shall be adopted by the Municipality and identified in the Fee
Schedule set forth in §
6-125.
   (B)   The annual pet license as provided in this section shall be for the
period of January 1 through December 31 of the licensing year. The pet license
provided for by this section shall be secured by each new owner or new resident
within thirty (30) days of establishing residency in the City or after
acquiring said animal, notwithstanding the fact that the dog may have been
registered within the annual period by a previous owner or that the dog had
been registered with another authority other than the City of Wood River.
   (C)   The fee required in division (A) above shall become due on January 1
of the licensing year and shall become delinquent on February 1 of each year.
The owner of any domestic animal in the City registering the same after said
fee has become delinquent shall pay a surcharge in accordance with the fees
adopted by the City and identified in the Fee Schedule set forth in §
6-125.
   (D)   No dog shall be registered and licensed unless and until the owner
shall display a certificate of a licensed veterinarian showing that such animal
has been vaccinated for rabies. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-103 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PET TAG; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each animal
so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the said animal until December 31 following such licensing.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year. (Ref. 17-526, 54-
603 RS Neb.)
   (C)   In the event that a pet license tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag of
the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid and shall
collect a duplicate fee as adopted by the City and identified in the Fee
Schedule set forth in § 6-125. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-104 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such animal to wear any license, metallic tag or other Municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog. (Ref, 17-526,
54-603 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-105 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dogs without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 509,
6/17/08)
§ 6-106 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; ANIMALS REPORTED UNCOLLARED.
   (A)   Dogs seen without collars and reported to the Municipality will be
checked as to whether such said dog is registered as licensed. Notification
will be sent or delivered to the owner, if known, within twenty-four (24)
hours.
   (B)   If the dog is already licensed, the owner will be informed that the
dog is to be wearing a collar with a visible tag. If the dog is not licensed,
the owner is to report within three (3) days to have the dog licensed.
   (C)   Failure to comply will subject owner to have such dog impounded and be
subject to fees and procedure of impoundment as identified in the Fee Schedule
set forth in § 6-125. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-107 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   No owner of a domestic animal that is subject to rabies over the age
of three (3) months shall fail to cause the same to be vaccinated against
rabies by a duly licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   No owner of a domestic animal that is subject to rabies vaccinated as
required by division (A) above, shall fail to have such animal revaccinated
within ten (10) days of the expiration date set forth for the original or any
subsequent vaccination of said domestic animal. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-108 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.
   Every veterinarian who vaccinates a domestic animal that is subject to
rabies shall provide the owner thereof with a certificate showing the date of
such vaccination. A copy of each such certificate or a compilation thereof
providing notification that a vaccination certificate has been issued shall be
provided by each veterinary hospital or veterinary clinic to the Municipality
by the tenth (10th) of each month following the date of issuance. (Ord. No.
509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-109 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; VACCINATION CERTIFICATE; DUTY TO EXHIBIT.
   The owner of a vaccinated domestic animal who is subject to rabies shall
exhibit the certificate of vaccination to any Animal Control Authority Officer
upon demand. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-110 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; RABIES PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid animals is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any domestic
animal to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than
thirty (30) days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such
proclamation, or until such danger is passed. The domestic animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the
premise wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation, it
shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring any domestic
animal to confine the same as herein provided. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-111 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; COLLARED OR UNCOLLARED; RUNNING-AT-LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to allow
such animal to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. All domestic animals whether collared or uncollared found running
at large upon the streets and public grounds of the Municipality are hereby
declared a public nuisance. (See definition of RUNNING-AT-LARGE in §
6-101 .)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Animal Control Officer appointed
by the Municipality to capture any domestic animal running at large and impound
such animal in the Municipal Animal Shelter.
   (C)   Collared or uncollared domestic animals found running-at-large shall
be impounded in the Municipal Animal Shelter for no longer than five (5) days.
A fee will be assessed to obtain the domestic animal impounded at the Municipal
Animal Shelter. Fees will be listed in the Fee Schedule as set forth in §
6-125.
   (D)   If the animal is not claimed within the five (5) days the animal will
be taken to the Humane Society or contracting agency. Obtaining said animal by
the owner will be subject to the regulations of the Humane Society or other
contracting agency and their fee schedule. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-112 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS ON OWNER'S
PROPERTY.
   (A)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or
outdoors in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed
to prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the animal from escaping.
The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into
the ground. The pen or structure shall also protect the animal from the
elements.
   (B)   All pens or structures constructed for confining dangerous animals or
potentially dangerous animals shall be at least ten (10) feet from any
privately or publicly owned property abutting the animal owner's property.
(Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-113 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL; RESTRAINT;
IMPOUNDMENT; CONFISCATION.
   (A)   No owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall fail to
keep such animal secure muzzled and restrained by a leash or chain whenever off
the owner's property.
   (B)   Any dangerous or potentially dangerous animal in violation of §
6-112 or this section may be immediately impounded by Humane Society Officer or
other contracting agency officer. The owner shall be responsible for the costs
incurred by the contracting agency for the care of the dangerous animal
confiscated by the contracting agency or for the destruction of any dangerous
animal if the action by the contracting agency is pursuant to law.
   (C)   In the event an animal conforming to the definition of dangerous or
potentially dangerous bites or inflicts a wound on a human or domestic animal,
the dangerous animal shall be immediately confiscated by a Humane Society
Officer or contracting agency officer, placed in quarantine for the proper
length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
   (D)   Disposition of any dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal
impounded for violation of §
6-112 or this section shall be governed by §
6-121. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-114 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any
domestic animal which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, yelping
or crowing shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person, or which
habitually barks at or chases pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or
vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the
Municipality.
   (B)   Upon the written compliant of two (2) or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any thirty (30) day period with the
Municipal Clerk, that any domestic animal owned by the person named in the
complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions
of this section, the Animal Control Authority Officer shall investigate the
complaint and if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the
owner to silence and restrain such animal.
   (C)   If the owner is not compliant or another complaint is received, the
animal will be impounded for twenty-four (24) hours and the owner will be
subject to the fees and procedures of impoundment as set forth in §
6-125.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the
Municipal Animal Shelter (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-115 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide food and water for his or her animals,
or fail to seek veterinary care for any such animals that are sick or injured.
Food and water container shall be of sufficient weight and design as to
preclude readily tipping over and spilling the contents.
   (B)   No owner shall leave his or her pets without shelter in subzero
degree, stormy weather, or excessive heat.
   (C)   No owner shall fail to keep the shelters and enclosures on his or her
property in a sanitary condition. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-116 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; ABUSE.
   (A)   No person shall beat, mistreat, torment, tease, or otherwise abuse any
animal.
   (B)   No person shall cause, instigate, or permit any fight or other combat
between animals, or between animals and humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/
08)
§ 6-117 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PET EXCRETA; REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of any animal which deposits excreta on public property, or
private property, shall be responsible for its removal.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for the owner to fail to
immediately remove such excreta when notified of its existence and location,
either by the Municipality or by the owner of the property on which the excreta
was deposited. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-118 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to any animal or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy,
or in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any animal that is the
property of another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the
same is accessible to a domestic animal; provided, that this section shall not
apply to the Humane Society Officer, law enforcement officer or contracting
agency officer acting within their power and duty. (Ref. 28-1002 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-119 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal owned, kept, or
harbored by said person or under said person's control, to injure or destroy
any real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
   (B)   The owner or possessor of any animal in addition to the usual judgment
upon conviction, may be made to liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained. (Ref. 54-601, 54-602 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-120 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; MUNICIPAL ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have full authority to appoint one (1) or more
Municipal Animal Control Officers to serve at the discretion of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Municipal Animal Control Officer shall have full authority to
enforce the ordinances of the City pertaining to domestic animals and shall
specifically capture and contain any domestic animal off of the premises of the
owner and not under the control of the owner or a responsible person, either by
leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical
restraint.
   (C)   The Municipal Animal Control Officer will not be responsible to
capture dangerous or potentially dangerous animals. These will be deferred to
the contracting agency officer.
   (D)   Owners of impounded animals claiming their pet within two (2) days
will pay an impoundment fee and other recuperating cost as identified in the
Fee Schedule set forth in §
6-125. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-121 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CONTRACTING AGENCY; IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All domestic animals impounded pursuant to violations stated in §
6-111 after two (2) days will be taken to the contracting agency and shall be
retained until redeemed by their owner upon payment of an impoundment fee as
adopted by the Humane Society or Contracting Agency and identified in the Fee
Schedule set forth in §
6-125.
   (B)   All animals that are not domestic animals may be humanely euthanized
as soon as they are captured or otherwise taken into custody.
   (C)   All animals impounded pursuant to §
6-122 shall be retained until completion of the observation period and the
determination by a licensed veterinarian that said animal is not infected with
rabies, and then may be redeemed by its owner upon payment of the fees for
impoundment and cost of care as adopted by the Municipality and contracting
agency and identified in the Fee Schedule set forth in §
6-125.
   (D)   Any domestic animal not claimed by its owner within five (5) days
after being impounded under §
6-111 or
6-122, shall become the property of the contracting agency and may be placed
for adoption or humanely euthanized by said agency at its discretion.
   (E)   Any animals determined to have rabies by a licensed veterinarian shall
be destroyed as soon as possible after that determination is made.
   (F)   All domestic animals impounded shall be retained until redeemed by
their owner upon payment of fees for impoundment and cost of care in an amount
adopted by Municipality and the contracting agency and identified in the Fee
Schedule set forth in §
6-125. Any domestic animal not claimed within five (5) days after being
impounded or such extended period as is granted in writing by the contracting
agency to allow the animal's owner to construct a pen or structure in
conformance with §
6-112 shall become the property of the contracting agency and may be placed for
adoption or humanely euthanized by said agency at its discretion.
   (G)   No domestic animal impounded under §
6-111 or
6-122 shall be released until said animal is vaccinated and licensed as
required by provision of this Article. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-122 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CONTRACTING AGENCY; RABIES CONTROL; REPORTING AND
IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any domestic animal subject to rabies, suspected of biting or
scratching any person or exposing an individual to the possibility of
contracting rabies shall be taken into custody by a Humane Society Officer,
contracting agency officer, or law enforcement officer and impounded in the
Animal Shelter for a period of not less than ten (10) days, or such additional
period as directed by a licensed veterinarian or medical professional treating
the aforementioned injury.
   (B)   Any domestic animal subject to rabies currently vaccinated for rabies
which is suspected of biting or scratching any person shall be confined by the
owner of the animal for a period of not less than ten (10) days; provided, that
impoundment in the animal shelter shall be required if the victim, victim's
legal guardian, or the victim's physician requests such impoundment; and
provided further, that if said owner has on any prior occasion of an animal
bite or scratch, failed or refused to confine the animal as required by this
section, said animal shall be impounded at the Animal Shelter or a veterinary
clinic of the owner's choosing.
   (C)   Any ferret suspected of biting any person or exposing an individual to
the possibility of contracting rabies shall be taken into custody by a Humane
Society Officer, contracting agency officer, or law enforcement officer for
immediate authorization for the determination of rabies. Any ferret suspected
of scratching any person shall be taken into custody by the Animal Control
Authority Officer for immediate authorization for determination of rabies if
there is reasonable cause to believe said ferret has exposed such person to the
possibility of contracting rabies. If ferret was vaccinated and proof of such
action, then animal will be impounded for not less than ten (10) days.
   (D)   No owner of an animal suspected of biting or scratching any person,
upon information and notice of the incident, shall fail or neglect to
immediately place the animal in the custody of the Animal Control Authority
Officer for impoundment at the Animal Shelter. Upon request and authorization
by the owner of any animal impounded for observation under divisions (A), (B)
or (C) above, said animal may be placed in custody of a licensed veterinarian
for the requisite observation period.
   (E)   All incidents of biting or scratching shall be reported in writing to
the contracting agent by the medical professional treating the injury, the
injured party, or in the case of a minor child, the parent or guardian.
   (F)   The term SCRATCHING as used in this section shall include only those
incidents which result from unknown or suspected aggressive action or attack by
a domestic animal subject to rabies. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-123 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
law enforcement officer. Municipal Animal Control Officer, or contracted agency
officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by the provisions of this
Article, or to break open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel, or advise the breaking open of the Animal Shelter, any ambulance
wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of animals to the
Shelter. (Ref. 28-906 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-124 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Humane Society Officer, contracting agency officer, or law enforcement
officer, upon authority of the Governing Body of the Municipality, shall have
the authority to kill any animals showing dangerous tendencies, or
characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger
involved. (Ref. 54-0605 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-125 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   All fees listed in this section are subject to change by a vote of the City
Council at any time.
   (A)   Dog license fees.
      (1)   Dog license fee: new or renewal, January 1 through January 31:
$5.00.
      (2)   Dog license fee: renewal, after February 1: $7.00.
      (3)   Dog license fee: new, February 1 through June 31; $5.00.
      (4)   Dog license fee: new, after July 1: $3.00.
      (5)   Dog license fee: duplicate license: $2.00.
   (B)   Impoundment fees:
      (1)   Animal impoundment fee: $25.00 + $10.00 per day for care.
      (2)   Animal care: $10.00 per day; maximum of two (2) days: $20.00.
   (C)   Impoundment fees after two (2) days: After two (2) days, the animal
will be sent to the contracting animal control authority, and additional fees
will be collected there. (Ord. No. 509, 6/17/08)
§ 6-126 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS; APPEAL;
DISPOSITION.
   (A)   If it shall appear to the Director of the Humane Society or
contracting agency that any animal conforms to the definition of dangerous
animal or potentially dangerous animal, written notice declaring the animal a
dangerous animal shall be delivered to the animal's owner either by personal
service or by mail addressed to the last known address of said owner.
   (B)   In the case of a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal,
within five (5) days of personal service or mailing of a notice of declaration
to the animal's owner said owner shall either provide reasonable proof of
compliance with §§
6-112 and
6-113 or shall deliver said animal to the Humane Society or contracting agency
for impoundment and disposition pursuant to §
6-122(B). Refusal or failure by the owner of any animal declared a dangerous
animal or potentially dangerous animal to comply with this subsection shall be
a violation of the Municipal Code and shall be subject to a fee as set forth by
the contracting agency.
   (C)   The owner of any animal declared a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal by the Director of the Humane Society or contracting agency
may appeal the Director's decision to the City Council or their designated
board by submitting a letter of appeal to the Director within seventy-two (72)
hours of either receiving personal service or mailing of the written notice of
declaration. The City Council or designated board shall hold a hearing within
ten (10) days of delivery of the letter of appeal to the Director. The hearing
shall be conducted informally. The animal's owner and Director of the Humane
Society or contracting agency shall present oral or written statements or
reasons supporting or opposing the declaration to the City Council or
designated board. Statements by each participant shall be limited to a total
time of one (1) hour or less. Upon conclusion of the hearing the City Council
or designated board may reverse, modify or affirm the declaration of the
Director. Notice of the determination of the City Council or designated board
shall be given to the animal's owner and the Director of the Humane Society or
contracting agency, either personally or by United States Mail. (Ord. No. 509,
6/17/08)
ARTICLE 2. ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 6-201 ANIMALS; DEFINED.
   The term "animals" shall mean and include any and all type of cattle, goats,
sheep, swine, rabbits, minks, raccoon, or skunks, of whatever sex. (Amended by
Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-202 FOWLS; DEFINED.
   The term "fowls" shall mean and include any and all chickens, geese, ducks,
pheasants, turkeys, pigeons, peafowls, or guineas, of whatever sex.
§ 6-203 KEEP OR MAINTAIN; DEFINED.
   The term "keep or maintain" shall mean providing a place for or having
animals or fowl within the corporate limits for a continuous period of longer
than twelve (12) hours.
§ 6-204 ANIMALS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or corporation to keep or
maintain any animal or fowl within the corporate limits of the Municipality.
§ 6-205 ANIMALS; PERMIT.
   (1)   Any owner or keeper of animals or fowl may keep such animals or fowl
within the corporate limits of the Municipality for a period longer than twelve
(12) hours by obtaining a permit from the City Council. The Council shall
consider the following factors in determining whether or not to issue a permit:
      (a)   All enclosures and restraints required by this Article which are to
be used to confine horses, mules, and donkeys shall be no less than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from any residence, other than the residence of the owner of
the enclosure, unless a waiver or variance is obtained as provided in
subsection (1)(c) below.
      (b)   All enclosures shall be at least fifteen feet (15') from any
privately owned property abuttting the owner's property.
      (c)   The owner of an animal affected by subsection (1)(a) above may keep
or maintain an enclosure within the prohibited distance be either obtaining a
waiver from all property owners within the prohibited distance stating that the
property owners do not object to the keeping of the animals within the
prohibited distance.
      (d)   That the real estate for which the permit is allowed is adjacent to
or within an agricultural zone under the city's zoning ordinance to ensure that
the proposed use is in harmony with the general purpose of neighboring
properties.
   (2)   Upon the filing of a request for a permit to maintain animals under
this section, the City Clerk shall cause notice of the time and place of the
hearing before the City Council to be mailed to the head of all residences
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the enclosure for which the permit is
sought. (Amended by Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-206 ANIMALS; WILD.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions. (Ref.
17-123 RS Neb.)
§ 6-207 ANIMALS; CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the Municipality. (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-208 ANIMALS; KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal within the Municipality by the use
of firearms, knives, stones, clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the
animal is vicious or dangerous and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of said animal.  (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-209 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES AND SHELTERS.
   No owner shall fail to provide his or her pets and animals with shelter of
sufficient size to allow each pet to lie down and of sufficient construction to
shield the pets and animals from the wind and from precipitation. No owner
shall fail to confine his or her animals within an enclosure of sufficient size
and design to prevent the animal from escaping or to restrain said animal by a
rope, chain or stake in such manner as to prevent such animal from going on to
any public property or on to the property of another. (Amended by Ord. No. 426,
11/2/99)
§ 6-210 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (1)   The location of all enclosures with the distance requirements as set
forth in section
6-210 of this code shall be registered with the City Clerk within ten (10) days
of placing an animal upon an unregistered location. Said registration shall be
non-recurring for each owner, but shall not be transferable.
   (2)   The location of all enclosures in existence prior to the effective
date of this section shall be registered with the City Clerk within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of this section. (Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-211 ANIMALS; NUMBER OF ANIMALS; LIMITS.
   No residential property shall have more than four (4) animals over four (4)
months of age where said animals are of the following species: horses, mules,
donkeys, cows, sheep, goats, and miniature pot-bellied pigs; and provided
further, that the area requirements set forth in section
6-212 of this code must be met. (Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-212 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES AND SHELTERS; AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner of any animal of one (1) or more of the species set forth in the
section
6-211 of this code shall fail to provide an enclosure that has, as a minimum, a
width of twenty feet (20') and an area of:
   (1)   For one (1) animal   1,000 square feet
   (2)   For two (2) animals   2,500 square feet
   (3)   For three (3) animals   5,000 square feet
   (4)   For four (4) animals   8,000 square feet
(Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
§ 6-213 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES AND SHELTERS; SANITATION.
   No owner shall fail to keep the shelters and enclosures on his or her
property in a sanitary condition. As a minimum, owners shall not fail to remove
or dispose in a sanitary manner the bedding, offal manure, and waste materials
accumulating from such animals at least once every seven (7) days, nor shall
they fail to clean and disinfect said shelters and enclosures so as to prevent
the emission of offensive odors or in such a manner that fails to prevent
breeding of flies and insects. (Ord. No. 426, 11/2/99)
ARTICLE 3. MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
§ 6-301 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a Municipal or State Police
Officer to wear an official badge or uniform, or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials. (Ref. 28-715.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-302 MISDEMEANORS; REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a Municipal Police
Officer when lawfully requested to do so by him. (Ref. 28-728 RS Neb.)
§ 6-303 MISDEMEANORS; RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any Municipal Policeman when
such officer is in the lawful performance of his duties. (Ref. 28-729 RS Neb.)
§ 6-304 MISDEMEANORS; ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or Municipal
official in the execution of his office. (Ref. 28-729 RS Neb.)
§ 6-305 MISDEMEANORS; TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the Municipality, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower, or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same. (Ref. 28-588, 28-588.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-306 MISDEMEANORS; LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than three hundred ($300.00) dollars shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-512, 28-514 RS Neb.)
§ 6-307 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
§ 6-308 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
§ 6-309 MISDEMEANORS; TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or
negligently place or throw upon the premise of another any filth, garbage,
leaves, papers, or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant
thereon. (Ref. 28-523 RS Neb.)
§ 6-310 MISDEMEANORS; DRUNKENNESS.
   Any person found in a state of intoxication, or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, within the Municipality shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished in accord with State law. (Ref. 53-196 RS Neb.)
§ 6-311 MISDEMEANORS; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
Municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theaters, dance
halls, or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 53-186 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 142, 2/3/76)
§ 6-312 MISDEMEANORS; MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to represent that he is of the age of
nineteen (19) years for the purpose of asking for, purchasing, or receiving any
alcoholic beverages. (Ref. 53-180.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-313 MISDEMEANORS; GAMBLING PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or keep a gambling house,
table, room, place, or gambling device at which a game of chance may be played
for money, property, or other valuable article representing money, property, or
other valuable thing. It shall be further unlawful for any person to suffer, or
permit such gambling device to be set up, kept, or used for the purpose of
gambling in, or upon any premise or tenement belonging to, or under the control
of any such person. (Ref. 28-941 through 28-945 RS Neb.)
§ 6-314 MISDEMEANORS; GAMBLING.
   Any person, who shall play at any game whatever, except a licensed game of
bingo, for any sum of money, or other property of value, or shall bet or wager
any money or property of value upon any gambling table or device, or who shall
be the keeper or operator of a punch board, gaming table, or gambling machine
for the purpose of determining any chance upon which money is won or lost,
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-944, 28-947 RS Neb.)
§ 6-315 MISDEMEANORS; POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove, or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person,
firm, or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted, and the same remains of value.
§ 6-316 MISDEMEANORS; POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or paint any sign,
advertisement, or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building, or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
§ 6-317 MISDEMEANORS; GASOLINE DISPENSERS.
   All pumps or mechanical devices used for the dispensing of gasoline on a
retail basis shall be securely locked so that no liquid may be drawn, unless
and until such devices are under the supervision of an attendant. A violation
of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and opposed to the preservation
of the public peace, health and safety.
§ 6-318 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the Municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body, nor
shall this section be construed to apply to the discharge of a firearm within
an enclosed, underground or indoor range specifically designed for discharge of
firearms for target practice or scientific testing. (Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 495, 8/22/06)
§ 6-319 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or threaten any other person
or persons. Any person who assaults another person or persons shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-411 RS Neb.)
§ 6-320 MISDEMEANORS; PROVOKING ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the Municipality to
intentionally provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or another
by the uttering of insulting words, cursing and swearing, or to use slander
against any other person. Upon conviction a fine not to exceed ten ($10.00)
dollars shall be assessed. (Ref. 28-412 RS Neb.)
§ 6-321 MISDEMEANORS; MENACING THREATS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of
this Municipality to assault or threaten another in a menacing manner or strike
or injure another.
§ 6-322 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.  (Ref. 28-411 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-323 MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the Municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the Municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-818 RS Neb.)
§ 6-324 MISDEMEANORS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 17-
129, 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-325 MISDEMEANORS; LITTERING.
   (1)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (a)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (b)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (2)   The word litter as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. Waste material as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (3)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering. (Ref. 28-523 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 382, 10/17/95)
§ 6-326 MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
§ 6-327 MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all
doors and make the same reasonably safe. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 6-328 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
§ 6-329 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
§ 6-330 MISDEMEANORS; REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take
away from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or
other materials forming a part of such street, alley, or public grounds without
first having obtained written permission to do so from the Governing Body.
§ 6-331 MISDEMEANORS; WEEDS AND REMOVAL.
   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for the owner of any lot or parcel of
ground in the City to allow weeds or other rank growth of vegetation at a
height in excess of twelve inches (12") thereon or on the half of any street
and alley abutting said real estate. The owner of real estate shall cause such
weeds or other rank growth of vegetation to be cut or otherwise destroyed
before the same reaches a height in excess of twelve inches (12").
   (2)   Whenever a nuisance as defined in this section is found to exist by
the Governing Body, it shall direct the Utility Superintendent, the Chief of
Police, or its designee to notify such owner to remove or cut said weeds or
other rank growth of vegetation. Notice shall be served upon the property owner
by certified mail or by publication in a legal newspaper. If notice by
certified mail is undeliverable, notice may be served by the City law
enforcement officer. Receipt of such notice by the owner shall serve as notice
for the calendar year. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
   (3)   If the owner shall fail to comply with the abatement notice within
five (5) days after receipt of said notice or publication, the Utility
Superintendent or his designee shall cause said weeds or other rank growth of
vegetation to be cut by City workers at the expense of the property owner.
Charges for weed cutting when done by the City shall be seventy-five dollars
($75.00) for the first hour with a minimum charge of seventy-five dollars
($75.00). For every quarter of an hour or part thereof after the first hour, an
additional thirty-five dollars ($35.00) will be charged.
   (4)   If the property owner fails to reimburse the City within thirty (30)
days after being billed for the costs of said cutting or weed removal, the cost
will be assessed against the real estate as a special assessment. (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 240, 9/6/83; 386, 10/17/95; 420, 9/8/98)
§ 6-332 MISDEMEANORS; DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 381. 10/17/95)
§ 6-333 MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the Municipal Streets,
highways, alleys, parks or other property. An automobile shall be deemed to be
abandoned if left unattended for more than six (6) hours on any public property
without current license plates; for more than twenty-four (24) hours on any
public property, except where parking is legally permitted; for more than
forty-eight (48) hours after the parking of such vehicle shall have become
illegal; and for more than seven (7) days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall have
been terminated. Any automobile so abandoned shall immediately become the
property of the Municipality if the automobile is unlicensed and if, in the
estimation of the Municipal Police, the said automobile is of a wholesale value
of one hundred ($100.00) dollars or less. In the event the automobile is
licensed or is of an estimated value of over one hundred ($100.00) dollars, the
Municipal Police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner of the
said automobile by sending a notice to the registered owner, if known; by
sending an inquiry to the county it is registered in, if the owner is unknown;
or by contacting the Director of Motor Vehicles, if the car is without license
plates and the owner is unknown. If the owner is known and does not claim the
automobile within five (5) days after the date when the notice was mailed, or
upon receiving word from the Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is
unknown, title will immediately vest in the Municipality and the automobile may
be sold. Any proceeds from the sale of the automobile less any expenses
incurred by the Municipality in such sale shall be held without interest for
the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two (2) years. If not
claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid into the
General Fund.
   Any person who abandons an automobile as hereinbefore defined shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 60-1901 through 60-1911 RS Neb.)
§ 6-334 MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the Municipality,
other than Municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days or
for any length of time any vehicle that has been unlicensed for a period in
excess of four (4) months; provided, this section shall not apply to a vehicle
in an enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
Municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 6-335 MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18)
years to ride in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other
public place, or to remain in or upon any of the public streets, alleys, or
other public places within the City of Wood River, Nebraska, between the
following hours:
   Sunday, between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and from 10:30 p.m.
until 6:00 a.m. the following Monday.
   Monday, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following Tuesday.
   Tuesday, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
Wednesday.
   Wednesday, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
Thursday.
   Thursday, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
Friday.
   Saturday, from 12:30 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
unless accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of said minor, or unless such minor person is in the
performance of an errand of duty, directed by his parent, guardian or other
adult person having legal custody of such minor person, or whose employment
makes it necessary to be on the streets, alleys and public places during the
curfew hours. (Amended by Ord. No. 269, 10/22/85)
§ 6-336 MISDEMEANORS; VAGRANCY.
   Any person not having visible means of support and maintenance and who shall
live without employment; all persons wandering about and living in sheds,
barns, or in the open air; all persons who go about begging and soliciting
alms; any and all prostitutes, keepers, occupants, and pimps of houses of
prostitution; and all persons who are commonly engaged in gambling shall be
deemed to be and are hereby declared to be vagrants. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1119 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-337 MISDEMEANORS; SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED SMOKING
AREAS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smoke in a public meeting or within buildings owned by the
City of Wood River, Nebraska, except in designated smoking areas. For purposes
of this ordinance, smoking shall mean carrying a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe
or any other lighted smoking equipment.
   Designated smoking areas shall be posted in buildings owned by the City to
provide physical barriers and ventilation to minimize the toxic effect of smoke
in adjacent non-smoking areas.
   Any person who violates this ordinance shall be guilty of a Class V
Misdemeanor as provided in section 71-5712, R.R.S. Neb. and subject to
prosecution accordingly. (Ord. No. 344, 1/18/92)
§ 6-338 MISDEMEANORS; WASHING A VEHICLE ON CITY STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wash any vehicle upon any
street or alley within the Municipality so as to allow any dirt, oil, debris or
residue from said vehicle to remain upon the City's streets or alleys.
   (2)   Persons violating this section shall be subjected to a penalty of a
fine in the maximum sum of five hundred ($500.00) dollars. (Ord. No. 440, 8/7/
01)
§ 6-339 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTIONS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to plant, grow, keep or
maintain, or cause to be planted, grown, kept, or maintained, any hedge, bush
or shrubbery of any kind or nature more than three feet (3') in height above
the roadway within the triangle formed by the adjacent side lines of two (2)
intersecting streets and the line joining points distant thirty feet (30') on
each side line from their point of intersection. For the purpose of this
section, "side line" of street shall mean the property line. (Ord. No. 473, 5/
4/04)
§ 6-340 MISDEMEANORS; SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   Findings and Intent.
      (a)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (b)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (c)   It is the intent of this section to serve the City's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
   (2)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one (1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one (1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
section 29-4003 RS Neb. and who is required to register as a sex offender
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in section 29-4001.01 RS Neb., as currently in effect or as later amended who
has victimized a person eighteen (18) years of age or younger.
   (3)   Sexual Predator Residency Restrictions; Penalties; Exceptions.
      (a)   Prohibited Location of Residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within five hundred (500) feet from a school or child care
facility.
      (b)   Measure of Distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (c)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the Code.
      (d)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         1.   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         2.   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that
residence; or
         3.   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
childcare facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial
date of the sexual predator's residence at that location. (Ord. No. 494, 7/12/
06) (Amended by Ord. No. 520, 4/20/10)
ARTICLE 4. PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
§ 6-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   FIRES
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
      
4.   EXPLOSIVES
      
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. FIRES
§ 7-101 FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the Municipal Firemen to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102 FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or
refuse to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-103 FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.)
§ 7-104 FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-105 FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within fifteen (15') feet of the said hydrant.
Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by
the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and
expense of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 7-106 FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-107 FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department. (Ref. 39-682 RS Neb.)
§ 7-108 FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire. (Ref. 28-907, 35-520 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 2. FIRE PREVENTION
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION; LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this Code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Basic Fire Prevention
Code, 1975 Edition, and all subsequent amendments. This Code shall have the
same force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One (1) copy of the Life
Safety Code is on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
RS Neb.)
§ 7-202 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-203 FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
Municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 7-204 FIRE PREVENTION; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the Municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five (5) days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
§ 7-205 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN; BAN ON BURNING OF RUBBISH AND YARD
WASTE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an open burning ban on outdoor rubbish
fires, fires for burning yard waste, vegetation, leaves and grasses, and fires
for the purposes of clearing land. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause
or permit any open fire within the limits of the Municipality except the
following:
      (1)   Fires set solely for outdoor cooking of food for human consumption
on other than commercial premises where no nuisance or hazard is created;
      (2)   Fires set for the burning of dried trees and lumber in an outdoor
fireplace;
      (3)   Fires set with the written permission of the Fire Chief or his or
her designated representative for the purpose of training public or industrial
firefighting personnel, or for the purpose of destroying dangerous materials or
diseased trees.
   (B)   Persons violating this section shall be subject to a penalty of a fine
in the maximum sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ref. 81-520.01 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 315, 12/5/89; 383, 10/17/95;
481, 11/2/04)
ARTICLE 3. POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
§ 7-301 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
Municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas,
liquefied petroleum gas or anhydrous ammonia in excess of one hundred (100)
gallons, must first get permission from the Governing Body. The application for
a permit shall be available at the Municipal Clerk's office. The application
shall be submitted to the Clerk who shall forward it to the Governing Body for
approval. The Governing Body shall require the name of the gas, the place of
storage, and the amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the Governing
Body shall prescribe such rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they
may deem necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or
location of storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence
on the effective date of this ordinance; Provided, any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of sixty (60) days shall not be revived without a
permit. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4. EXPLOSIVES
§ 7-401 EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives within the
Municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk within
ten (10) days after such explosives are brought into the Municipality. The
Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and to the
Governing Body.
   All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder and nitroglycerine shall
be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at all times, except
when actually in use. Such cement, metal, or stone receptacle shall not be
located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials.
§ 7-402 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the Municipality must
secure a permit from the Governing Body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
Nebraska State Patrol. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1229 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 320,
1/2/90)
§ 7-403 EXPLOSIVES; TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the Municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the Municipal Police and shall take such
precautions and use such route as he may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the Municipal Police, or any of the Armed Services of the
United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than five (5) minutes within the Municipality and in the event
of mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
Police Chief who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to
protect the residents of the Municipality and a reasonable time for removal of
the vehicle from the Municipality. (Ref. 17-549, 28-1235 RS Neb.)
§ 7-404 FIREWORKS PERMITTED HOURS OF DISCHARGE.
   Permissible fireworks, authorized under the laws of the State of Nebraska,
may be discharged, exploded or used in the Municipality on June 25; provided
that on such days the discharge and explosion of fireworks shall be permitted
only during the following times:
      June 25 through July 2   8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      July 3   8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      July 4   8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight
(Ord. No. 478, 8/3/04)
ARTICLE 5. PENAL PROVISION
§ 7-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      
2.   SIDEWALKS
      
3.   STREETS
      
4.   CURB AND GUTTER
      
5.   TREES
      
6.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 8-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall supply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 8-102 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-103 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; TREES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 466, 7/2/02)
§ 8-104 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   The Municipality shall have the power by ordinance to sell and convey all
public squares, streets, and alleys, but not including land used for park
purposes within the Municipality; Provided, a petition containing the
signatures of three-fourths (3/4) of the property holders of the Municipality,
has been presented to the Governing Body, and a notice of the petition has been
published not less than four (4) weeks in each paper of general circulation in
the Municipality. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-105 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article. Said roots may be removed by the
Municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree is
located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be
unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys, sidewalk space, sidewalks, public ways or public ground.
   Whenever the owner of any obstruction, encumbrance, or encroachment upon any
street, alley, sidewalk space, sidewalk, public way or public ground within the
Municipality refuses or neglects to remove the same after receiving notice to
do so, or after diligent search, cannot be found for the purpose of giving such
notice to the owner, such obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment shall be
deemed a public nuisance and it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent to cause the same to be removed or taken down and the expense
thereof shall be recoverable from the owner in an action at law. In addition,
the owner of the obstruction, encumbrance or encroachment shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon receiving notice, be fined ten ($10.00) dollars per
day for each and every day that the obstruction, encumbrance, or encroachment
remains on public property. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-106 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Governing Body to do so; Provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-third (1/3)
of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which said
building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired
shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians
shall be maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall
be protected and lighted in the manner required by the official issuing the
permit.
§ 8-107 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his duly authorized
agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for
growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are
found growing thereon, he shall notify the owner or occupant thereof, to cut
down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done and keep the
weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for weeds; Provided,
any weeds growing in excess of twelve (12") inches shall be considered a
violation of this Section. In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of
land abutting said sidewalk space within the Municipality is a non-resident of
the Municipality or cannot be found therein the notice may be given to any
person having the care, custody, or control of such lot or parcel of land. In
the event that there can be found no one within the Municipality to whom notice
can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his agent
to post a copy of the notice on the premise and then to cut or cause the weeds
thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the cost thereof in writing to
the Governing Body. The cost shall then be audited and paid by the Municipality
and the amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a
special tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the
Municipality or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the Municipality
against the owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
§ 8-108 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public ground cut or opening without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the Office of the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 138, 12/2/75)
§ 8-109 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PARTIES ELIGIBLE TO MAKE CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   The following parties shall be eligible to secure permits to cut or open
streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public grounds.
   A.   Public Utility Corporations. Any public utility corporation having a
franchise to operate in any City street, alley or other public ground.
   B.   Licensed Plumbers. Licensed plumbers bonded by the City.
   C.   City-owned Utility Departments.
   D.   Other Performing Services. Others performing services under contract
for the City with approved surety bond on file.
   E.   Person Requesting Lowered Curb. Any person requesting a lowered curb in
conformance with the laws of the City of Wood River, Nebraska. (Ord. No. 138,
12/2/75)
§ 8-110 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; APPLICATION FOR CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   The application for a permit to make a cut or opening in any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public ground shall be made to the Office of the City Clerk
and shall show the name of the party seeking the permit, the location of the
cut or opening to be made, the purpose for which the opening is to be made and
any other pertinent information the City Clerk may require. (Ord. No. 138, 12/
2/75)
§ 8-111 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; APPLICATION FEE FOR CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   The party applying for a permit to make a cut or opening in any street,
alley, sidewalk or public ground shall pay to the City Clerk at the time of
such permit is issued a fee in the sum of one ($1.00) dollar, which amount
shall be credited to the General Fund of the City. No fee shall be charged for
those performing services under contract for the City and having need to make a
cut or opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground, but a permit
shall be required. (Ord. No. 138, 12/2/75)
§ 8-112 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; CUTS AND OPENINGS BY PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Public utility corporations operating in the City under franchise shall at
its own expense, make such cuts or openings in streets, alleys, sidewalks and
public grounds according to specifications hereinafter provided. If the surface
of any such cut or opening made in any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground
should thereafter become defective within two (2) years by reason of settling,
faulty workmanship or materials, the same shall upon notice from the City Clerk
be immediately repaired and restored to the satisfaction of the City Clerk at
no expense to the City. If such public utility corporation fails to repair or
replace such faulty work within a reasonable time, the City shall proceed to
make such necessary repairs and restore the surface of such cut or opening, and
the expense incurred by the City shall be immediately paid by the one to whom
the permit to make such opening or cut was issued. (Ord. No. 138, 12/2/75)
§ 8-113 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SIZE OF CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   All pavement, sidewalk, or combined pavement and sidewalk openings for
trenching purposes shall be rectangular in shape and not less than twenty-four
(24") inches by thirty-six (36") inches in dimension. The minimum width of all
openings shall be no wider at the bottom than at the top of such trench.
Undercutting of openings is hereby prohibited.
   When an underground main, pipe, conduit, cable or other public utility or
any appurtenance thereto, is involved with any sidewalk, the City Clerk shall
determine whether the entire sidewalk, a panel or panels, or a segment or
segments less than a panel or panels shall be removed. (Ord. No. 138, 12/2/75)
§ 8-114 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; STANDARDS FOR CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   All material and workmanship on the following shall conform with
specifications on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
   A.   All brick pavement that has been open shall be replaced with a six (6")
inch concrete base, sand cushioned, enough to replace the brick surface course
and seal the joints with emulsified asphaltic compound.
   B.   All brick pavement with an asphaltic surface course that has been
opened shall be replace with six (6") inch concrete base and three (3") inches
of asphaltic concrete; Provided, when there is not an asphaltic plant operating
in or near the City, the opening may be replaced within nine (9") inches of
concrete upon receiving permission from the City Clerk.
   C.   Concrete pavement that has been opened shall be replaced with concrete
of the same thickness as that removed, but in no case shall it be less than six
(6") inches in thickness.
   D.   Bituminous surface pavement with a concrete base that has been opened
shall be replaced with a six (6") inch concrete base and surfaced with at least
two (2") inches of asphaltic concrete. When there is not an asphaltic plant
operating in or near the City, the opening may be replaced with eight (8")
inches of concrete by receiving permission from the City Clerk.
   E.   Bituminious surface pavement without a concrete base that has been
opened shall be replaced with six (6") inches of asphaltic concrete or six (6")
inches of concrete by receiving permission from the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 138,
12/2/75)
§ 8-115 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; BARRICADES AROUND CUTS AND OPENINGS.
   Any person making excavations in any street, alley or other public grounds
in the City shall, at all times after such work is commenced and up to its
completion and acceptance by the City Clerk, maintain proper barricades, safety
guards and lights up for the protection of the traveling public. (Ord. No. 138,
12/2/75)
§ 8-116 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; BACKFILLING OF CUTS AND OPENINGS; PERMIT;
STANDARDS; INSPECTION.
   Before any contractor or owner shall fill any excavation made in any
sidewalk, curb, gutter or paved or graveled street, such contractor shall first
obtain a permit from the Utilities Superintendent for the backfill of said
excavation. The permit so required shall be a written permit issued by the
Utilities Superintendent after he has had an opportunity to inspect the
excavation and approve any connection made therein to the City utility systems,
water system or sewer system. All such excavations shall be backfilled with
dampened excavated or similar material in successive horizontal layers or less,
not exceeding six (6") inches in thickness and mechanically compacted equal to
100% of that of the adjacent undisturbed soil. The backfill shall be filled to
the subgrade of the undisturbed sidewalk, gutter, curb, paving, or the surface.
   In unimproved areas such as easements and alleys, the trench or opening may
be backfilled with sand which shall be flushed into place with water; provided,
the top twelve (12") inches of back fill shall be made of excavated material.
   All surplus excavated material shall be removed from the location by the
person, firm or corporation making an excavation in any street, alley or public
ground in the City. Any person, firm or corporation having made an excavation
in any street, alley or public ground, shall maintain all trenches or ditches
in a safe condition for the public until the excavated area has been inspected
by the Utilities Superintendent as provided herein and until the excavated
material has been replaced and reached final settlement. (Ord. No. 138, 12/2/
75) (Amended by Ord. No. 328, 9//18/90)
§ 8-117 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; ACCESS FOR
RECREATIONAL USE.
   (A)   The Municipality shall acquire an interest in real property by
purchase or eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
   (B)   The Municipality shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property. (Ref. 18-1755
RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 384, 10/17/95)
§ 8-118 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or more unless an
appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real property
appraiser. (Ref. 13-403 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 385, 10/17/95)
ARTICLE 2. SIDEWALKS
§ 8-201 SIDEWALKS; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight (8') feet above the surface of said street or walk.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the Governing Body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five (5) days after having received a copy
thereof from the Utilities Superintendent stating that the Municipality will
remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202 SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks shall
be cleaned within twelve (12) hours after the cessation of a storm. (Ref. 17-
557 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202.01 SIDEWALKS; REMOVAL OF SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENTS, ASSESSMENT OF COST TO
ABUTTING PROPERTY.
   In the event any owner refuses or neglects to remove ice or snow from the
sidewalks abutting his property after having received five (5) days notice by
publication or personal service notifying him to remove the same, the City
Street Superintendent may cause the removal of the ice and snow encroaching
upon the sidewalk. The costs of the removal and notices shall be paid out of
the street funds.
   The City Council may assess the costs of removal and notices against the
abutting property as a special sidewalk assessment ordinance.
   Upon payment of the special assessment, the payment shall be credited to the
street fund. (Ord. No. 226, 2/9/82)
§ 8-203 SIDEWALKS; SNOW DEPOSITED IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant in the residential district
of the Municipality to deposit snow from his sidewalks or any area of his
property onto Municipal Streets after Municipal snow removal equipment has been
used to clean said streets. It shall be permissible, however, to deposit the
snow in the sidewalk space, as defined in this Chapter.
§ 8-204 SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the Governing Body shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-205 SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   The Governing Body through the Utilities Superintendent may require
sidewalks of the Municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property
upon which such sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within forty-
eight (48) hours from issuance of notice said owners to make arrangements to
have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs shall be completed within twenty-one
(21) days after issuance of said notice. No special assessment shall be levied
against the property unless said owner shall neglect or refuse to repair within
the time prescribed and in the event that such owner fails to repair, the
Municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the property owner
the expense of such repairs. In the event the property owner is a non-resident
of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
§ 8-206 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk
shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Utilities Superintendent shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; Provided, if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade, or elevation, the Utilities Superintendent shall submit the
application to the Governing Body who shall determine whether the permit should
be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade, or
elevation than so designated by the Municipality. All sidewalks shall be built
and constructed on the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 8-207 SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
      (1)   By publication in one (1) issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon the premises ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of the repair or construction. (Ref. 17-522
RS Neb.)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the Municipality's estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten (10) days
after the date of publication of the notice, notify the Municipality that he or
she will repair the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after the date of
publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
Municipality within the ten (10) days, or, having so notified the Municipality,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the thirty (30) days,
the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof
to be assessed against the property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the Municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time the notice is first published. (Ref. 13-310
RS Neb.)
      (2)   The City Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with return
receipt requested. (Ref. 13-312 RS Neb.)
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence
and mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries
of the county in which the property subject to assessment is located and who is
a record owner of the property. (Ref. 13-314 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Section 17-524 RS Neb.
§ 8-208 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the Municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one (1) issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality; Provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days after
the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the Governing Body, and the Governing Body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Governing Body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him by
the Municipal Clerk entitling him to all assessments or special taxes, against
such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes, shall be collected
together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall
give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which
the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates
may be assigned and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if
held by the original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to such
contractor or other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments
or special taxes against such real estate, together with the interest and
penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation of such certificate or
certificates after said assessments or special taxes against such real estate
together with interest or penalty thereon shall have been collected.
§ 8-209 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If three-fifths (3/5) of the record resident abutting owner of property in
fee simple, subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, petition the
Governing Body to make the same, the Governing Body shall proceed in all things
as though such construction had been ordered by it. Upon the petition of any
freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of property subject to
assessment for sidewalk improvements, the Governing Body may order permanent
sidewalks built in accordance with this Article upon the freeholder making,
executing, and delivering to the Municipality an agreement to the effect that
the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee and all other
incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the
real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed
and that the petitioner gives and grants to the Municipality the right to
assess and levy the costs of such construction against the freeholder's real
estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay such costs with
interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied, allocated,
financed, and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the property
owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
ARTICLE 3. STREETS
§ 8-301 STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
Governing Body may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
§ 8-302 STREETS; WIDENING OR OPENING.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
Municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the Municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half (1/2) on each side thereof,
and become a part of that property, unless the Municipality reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the
Municipality, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon
such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
Municipality.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one (1) side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
Municipality reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If
title is retained by the Municipality, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the Municipality.
      (4)   When the Municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after
the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating
ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the County in which the vacated
property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the Municipality the right to maintain,
operate, repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the
property is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the Municipality, any public utilities, and
any cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below
the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time
title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public
or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such
purposes at any and all reasonable times. (Ref. 17-558 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same. (Ref. 17-559 RS Neb.)
§ 8-303 STREETS; EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing such excavations. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-304 STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
§ 8-305 STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
§ 8-306 STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
§ 8-307 STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 8-308 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Governing Body shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one (1) time in a legal newspaper
at least twenty (20) days prior to the beginning of such construction by the
party undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the Municipality.
§ 8-309 STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the Municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the Governing Body. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the Governing
Body. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body
and the Municipal Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said
companies shall, within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving notice, at their
own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances to be removed. The Governing Body shall designate another
location as closely as possible where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains,
pipe lines, or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed, or erected in such
a manner that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system;
poles, wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with
travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys
of the Municipality.
§ 8-310 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as "special assessments for improvements" and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-511, 17-524 RS Neb.)
§ 8-311 STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than sixty (60%) per cent of the front footage of the property directly
abutting upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public
grounds proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the
Municipal Clerk, petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and
shall cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall
contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land
abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially
benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the
cost of such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny
the formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 249, 1/3/84)
§ 8-312 STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates a paving district
which includes land adjacent to the Municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this Section, the terms agricultural use and
agricultural use zone shall have the meaning specified in Section 77-1343
Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1943.
   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this Section
shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing Body of the
Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of the paving district. Any
owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by this
Section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property (a) is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and (b) the owner has met the requirements of this Section.
   The deferral provided for in this Section shall be terminated upon any of
the following events:
   1.   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
   2.   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision 3 of this Section.
   3.   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who does
not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the transfer;
   4.   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
   5.   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this Section
becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of such
property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
   A.   The total amount of special assessments which would have been assessed
against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such deferral not
been granted; and
   B.   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the rate of
six (6%) per cent from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
   In cases where the deferral provided by this Section is terminated as a
result of a sale or transfer described in subdivision 2 or 3 of this Section
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer. (Ref. 19-2428 thru 19-2431 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 250, 1/3/84)
ARTICLE 4. CURB AND GUTTER
§ 8-401 CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Governing
Body therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the chief street official's duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the Governing Body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he shall
inform the chief street official, who shall supervise and inspect the materials
used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with
the Governing Body to order the chief street official, under the supervision
and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee of the Governing Body
on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and
charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit. The Governing
Body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by
the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued by the Governing
Body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer
a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body for all paving, curb, or sidewalk
to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction
basis. The deposit shall be retained by the Municipality for the purpose of
replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the
Municipality. In the event the Municipality elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
Municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the chief
street official or of the committee of the Governing Body on streets and
alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant shall,
before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the Municipality with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the Governing Body in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5. TREES
§ 8-501 TREES; PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor and City Council hereby determine that the selection, planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees within the public right-of-ways in the City
substantially affects the degree of pedestrian and vehicular safety, the
location and maintenance of utility services, tree maintenance costs, the
incidence of tree diseases, and the general appearance and beautification of
the City; that removal of trees due to disease, private development, of public
works improvements, has resulted in a loss of their important contribution to
man and his environment, and therefore it is determined that such selection,
planting, maintenance and removal of trees in public right-of-ways are a
community concern over which the City must exercise control. (Ord. No. 446, 7/
2/02)
§ 8-502 TREES; DEFINITIONS.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the City, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PRIVATE COMMUNITY FOREST. All trees within City boundaries but not owned by
the City.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees and other trees owned by
the City as a total resource.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or other
ways within the City. (Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 8-503 TREES; NUISANCES.
   No person or persons shall plant or allow to grow any trees within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a permit from the Governing Body. Any tree planted within the
sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to be
unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the Governing
Body be deemed to be a nuisance. When any such tree is declared to be a
nuisance, the Governing Body shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed
at the expense of the owner of the property adjacent to the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space upon which the tree has been unlawfully planted. If the
property owner fails or neglects to remove, or cause to be removed, the said
tree, the Governing Body shall order the same removed and assess the expense of
removal against the property adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is
planted and growing. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
County in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. No fee shall be charged for said permit, and
nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now
growing within the sidewalk space. (Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 8-504 TREES; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near the lot line or upon public ground
and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article. Said trees, shrubs and their roots
may be removed by the Municipality at the expense of the owner of the property
upon which the tree and shrub is located should the owner fail or neglect,
after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or
corporation to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or
otherwise, any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks. (Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 8-505 TREES; LIST OF RECOMMENDED TREES.
   The City shall maintain an extensive list of recommended trees and space for
planting in public areas available at the City Office. The purpose of this
listing will be to maintain diversity in the total tree population. This list
shall be available to residents of the City upon request to aid in the
selection of trees for private and public properties. The list of recommended
trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new developments or species that
will affect the population of the community forest. (Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 8-506 TREES; TREE BOARD.
   The Tree Board for the City shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and
residents of the City who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council. A list of duties and responsibilities is available at the
City Office. (Ord. No. 446, 7/2/02)
§ 8-507 TREES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared to be
a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner from the private
property on which they are located. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the Tree Board shall have the authority to enter on
private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the trees are
diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner of the property by mail or
personal service, and such notice shall allow the said owner sixty (60) days to
remove the said tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a non-resident,
notice shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or
by certified mail if the name and address are known. The person charged with
the removal may enter into an agreement with the City that such work be
accomplished by the City, and the expense shall be declared to be a lien upon
such property from the time the same becomes due until paid. If the owner
fails, neglects or refuses to enter into such an agreement, or to remove the
trees, the Tree Board may enter upon the property and proceed to direct the
removal of the trees and the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the property
owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the City after being properly billed,
the costs shall be assessed against the property and certified by the City
Clerk to the County Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by law.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the County in which the
property lies, the City shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published. (Ord. No. 466, 7/2/02)
§ 8-508 TREES; REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the
Tree Board to the City Council, which may hear the matter and make a final
decision. (Ord. No. 466, 7/2/02)
§ 8-509 TREES; PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with any section of this Article shall be unlawful and
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day a violation of a
continuing nature shall remain in existence shall constitute a separate
offense.  (Ord. No. 466, 7/2/02)
§ 8-510 TREES; TOPPING; PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or City
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property
or within public right-of-way. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of
limbs to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy or to stubs larger
than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown, disfiguring the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempt from this Article at the determination of the Tree
Board. The topping of private trees by persons or firms engaged in the business
will not be recommended by the City. (Ord. No. 483, 11/2/04)
ARTICLE 6. PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 8-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
§ 8-602 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a
part of the judgment in the case.  (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
      
2.   BUILDING PERMITS
      
3.   BUILDING MOVING
      
4.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
5.   NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CODES
      
6.   FLOOD HAZARD ZONE
      
7.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 9-101 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the Municipal Official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all Municipal
ordinances. He shall have the power and authority to order at the direction of
the Governing Body, all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He shall issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when the
Governing Body is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within
twenty-four (24) hours. Such written order may be served by any Municipal
Policeman.
§ 9-102 BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§ 9-103 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this Chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal
within ten (10) days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector has
been made. The Governing Body shall hear all appeals and shall have the power
and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
§ 9-104 BUILDING INSPECTOR; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
Municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this Section and the
Municipal Police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
ARTICLE 2. BUILDING PERMITS
§ 9-201 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
remodel an existing building where headers or loadbearing walls are changed
must first obtain a building permit through the Building Inspector. No permit
shall be required for new construction of accessory buildings having less than
one hundred (100) square feet. Building permit fees shall be as follows:
Up to $100,000, per $1,000    $1.00
$100,001 to $250,000, per $1,000    .75
Above $250,000, per $1,000    .50
Electrical Permit Fee
Outlets   $ .05
Gas Burner & Furnace Fan    1.00
Disposal    1.50
Exhaust Fan    .50
Air Conditioner    1.50
Electric Range    1.00
Built-in Top Burners    1.00
Dishwasher    1.50
Clothes Dryer, either direct or receptacle    1.50
Built-in Oven    1.00
X-Ray Equipment    1.50
Dental Equipment    1.50
Surgery Equipment       1.50
Medical Examination Equipment    1.50
Motion Picture Equipment    1.50
Associated Picture Equipment    1.50
Motors, Up to 5 HP    1.00
Additional Over 5 HP; per HP    .10
Any other apparatus for which no fee is listed    1.50
Minimum Fee    1.50
Plumbing Permit Fee
Each Fixture   $ .75
Water Distribution System    1.00
Septic Tank & Disposal Field    5.00
Private Well    5.00
Minimum Fee    2.00
§ 9-202 BUILDING PERMIT; LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six (6) months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of six (6) months, the permit shall be void. Before
work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form
as an original permit.
ARTICLE 3. BUILDING MOVING
§ 9-301 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the Municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; Provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Governing Body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or Municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten (10') feet wide, or less, and twenty
(20') feet long, or less, and when in a position to move, fifteen (15') feet
high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building
mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas
line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the said poles,
wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to
the building moving operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal,
or related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such
disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the said
company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building necessitates
interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the
Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the said building
moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal officials in charge of
the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in behalf of the
Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such disconnections and do
such work as is necessary. (Ref. 39-6,177 to 39-6,180, 39-6,184, 77-1725 RS
Neb.)
§ 9-302 BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Municipal Police
shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent
of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
Municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the Municipal Police, the Municipal Clerk shall return
the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the
event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the Governing Body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
ARTICLE 4. UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 9-401 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DEFINITION.
   The term ''unsafe building'' as used in this Article is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure (a)
which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may
cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants
of it or neighboring structures; (b) which because of faulty construction, age,
lack of proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and
constitutes or creates a fire hazard; (c) which by reason of faulty
construction or any other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the
collapse or fall of all or any part of such structure. Any such unsafe building
in the Municipality is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-
1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§ 9-402 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the Municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§ 9-403 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   Whenever the building inspector, the fire official, the health official, or
the Governing Body shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in
the Municipality is an unsafe building, he shall file a written statement to
this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the
property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of such determination
in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice
upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified
mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been
declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must
be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing
it; and that the condition must be remedied within sixty (60) days from the
date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms:
   "To                                                (owner-occupant of
premises) of the premise known and described as
                                               
   "You are hereby notified that
                                                         building) on the
premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by
                                                            . The causes for
this decision are                                         (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
   "You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed
to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body,
acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing."
   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the Governing Body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
RS Neb.)
§ 9-404 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the Governing Body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
Governing Body shall grant such hearing within ten (10) days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the Governing Body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the Governing Body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five (5) days from
the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after
the five (5) day period the owner has not begun work, the Governing Body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; Provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the Governing Body shall be stayed. Where the
Municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating
to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply. (Ref.
18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§ 9-405 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the Municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
§ 9-406 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses to
comply with notice by or on behalf of the Municipality to repair, rehabilitate,
or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the Municipality may proceed with the work specified in the notice to
the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the Governing Body. The Governing Body may (1) levy the cost as a special
assessment against the lot or real estate upon which the building or structure
is located. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments; or (2)
collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and enforce the
collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ref. 18-
1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 337, 1/2/91)
ARTICLE 5. NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 9-501 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the Uniform Building Code, 1973 Edition, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said code does not conflict with the Statutes of the State of
Nebraska. One (1) copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the
Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-
902, 19-922 RS Neb.)
§ 9-502 HOUSING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the Uniform Housing Code, 1970 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with
the Statutes of the State of Nebraska. One (1) copy of the Housing Code is on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Housing Code shall be
controlling throughout the Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-901, 19-922 RS Neb.)
§ 9-503 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the National Plumbing Code, 1973 Edition,
published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and printed in book
or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all
amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not
conflict with the Statutes of the State of Nebraska. One (1) copy of the
Plumbing Code is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available
for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing
Code shall be controlling throughout the Municipality and throughout its zoning
jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 RS Neb.)
§ 9-503.01 PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   For purposes of this Section, lead free shall mean:
   1)   Solders and flux - not more than two-tenths (.2%) percent lead, and
   2)   Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than eight (8%) percent lead. (Ref.
71-5301 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 300, 1/17/89)
§ 9-504 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fire proof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in
the installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical
Code, 1981 Edition, as recommended and published by the National Fire
Protection Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
State of Nebraska. One (1) copy of the 1981 Electrical Code is on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Electrical Code shall be controlling
throughout the Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-
1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 213, 5/19/81)
§ 9-505 PRINCIPAL BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM; NUMBERS TO BE ASSIGNED BY CITY
CLERK; ISSUANCE OF BUILDING NUMBER CERTIFICATE; OWNER-LESSEE DUTY TO INSTALL
NUMBERS; SIZE, COLOR AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council, recognizing the need and desirability of providing an
effective manner to identify buildings by emergency personnel and in order to
provide for the public safety, hereby adopts the following provisions for
assigning numbers to principal buildings located upon lots within the
Municipality:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to prepare a plan for the
numbering of principal buildings upon lots within the Municipality so that the
owner of any principal building may, by applying therefor, receive a
certificate of the correct number to be placed on such principal building.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of
any principal building in the Municipality to place or cause to be installed
and maintained upon such building, a proper house number as herein designated.
   (C)   The figures of each number shall not be less than two and one-half
inches (2 1/2") in height. Each figure shall be plain, legible, and of
contrasting color with its background. The numbers shall be maintained in such
condition at all times.
   (D)   The building numbers shall be placed upon the principal building in a
conspicuous place as near as may be to the main entrance thereto so that it may
be easily seen from the street extending in front of said building. The
requirement for house numbers as specified herein shall be the minimum
requirement. The owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of any principal building
may place such other correct numbers on such building as deemed necessary so
long as the minimum requirements of this Article are met.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to enforce the provisions of
this Chapter concerning the duty of the owners, agents, lessees, or occupants
to number buildings, and any person refusing to number a building as herein
required, or who shall fail to do so within a period of thirty (30) days after
being notified in writing by the City Clerk to do so, shall, upon conviction,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 474, 5/4/04)
ARTICLE 6. FLOOD HAZARD ZONE
   [Editor's Note: Article 6 which was originally adopted by Ordinance No. 162,
8/2/77, was repealed in full by Ordinance No. 164, 9/20/77. This new Article
has been adopted by Ordinance No. 176, 11/28/78 and amended by Ord. No. 287
passed on February 17, 1987]
§ 9-601 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; FLOOD HAZARD FINDINGS.
   It has been determined that certain areas within the jurisdiction of the
City of Wood River are subject to inundation which adversely affects the public
health, safety and welfare of the community. Flood losses are caused by the
cumulative effect of obstructions in floodways causing increases in flood
heights and occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flooding
conditions due to inadequate elevation or flood protection.
§ 9-602 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO FLOOD BOUNDARY AND
FLOODWAY MAP.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Article
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and so as to give this Article its most reasonable application.
   ACTUARIAL RATES - or "risk premium rates" are those rates established by the
Administrator pursuant to individual community studies and investigations which
are undertaken to provide flood insurance in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 4014 and
the accepted actuarial principles. Actuarial rates include provisions for
operating costs and allowances.
   CHANNEL - A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. Channel flow thus is that water which is flowing within the
limits of a defined channel.
   DEVELOPMENT - Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   FLOOD - A temporary rise in steams flow or stage that results in water
overlapping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel. An unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATIONS - A determination of the water surface
elevations of the 100-year flood; that is, the level of flooding that has a one
(1%) per cent chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - The official map prepared by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development - Federal Insurance Administration
for a community delineating where flood insurance may be sold and the risk
premium zones applicable to such area.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) - The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration. The report contains flood profiles and water surface
elevations for various flood frequencies as well as the boundaries and water
surface elevations of the 100-year flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT - The operation of an overall program of corrective
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plan, flood control works and flood plain management regulations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM - Those physical structural works constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard." Such a system typically
includes levees or dikes. These specialized modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound federal engineering standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING - Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which would preclude the entry of water. Basement walls shall be
built with the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
the effects of buoyancy resulting from one foot above the 100-year frequency
flood and shall be designed so that minimal structural damage will occur if
this design is exceeded. (Amended by Ord. No. 287, 2/17/87)
   FLOODWAY - The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
portion of the flood plain that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-
year flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one (1') foot at any point assuming equal conveyance reduction outside the
channel from the two (2) sides of the flood plain.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE - That area of the flood plain, outside of the floodway,
that on the average is likely to be flooded once every one hundred (100) years
(i.e., that has a one (1%) per cent chance of flood occurrence in any one (1)
year).
   LOWEST FLOOR - The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 287,
2/17/87)
   MANUFACTURED HOME - A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes the term includes park trailers, travel trailers and
similar vehicles place on the site for greater than 180 consecutive days. (Ord.
No. 287, 2/17/87)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land which has been divided into two or more lots for rent or sale and the
placement of manufactured homes. (Ord. No. 287, 2/17/87)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION - New construction means those structures where new
construction or substantial improvement of which is begun after December 31,
1974, or the effective date of the F.I.R.M. whichever is later.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION - Elevation indicated on the F.I.R.M. as the
elevation of the 100-year flood.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION - An elevation one (1') foot higher
than the water surface elevation of the regulatory flood.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION - Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage or excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. (Ord. No.
287, 2/17/87)
   STRUCTURE - A walled and roofed structure including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above the ground, including, but without limitation
to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, manufactured homes, and other similar
uses. (Amended by Ord. No. 287, 2/17/87)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - "Substantial improvement" means any repair,
reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty (50%) per cent of the market value of the structure either, (a)
before the improvement is started, or (b) if the structure has been damaged and
is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose of this
definition 'substantial improvement' is considered to occur when the first
(1st) alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include any alteration
to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety
codes or regulations.
   100-YEAR FLOOD - The base flood having a one (1%) per cent chance of annual
occurrence.
§ 9-603 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY DETERMINATION.
    The method of analyzing flood hazards consisted of the following
interrelated steps:
   (a)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of inundation. The
regulatory flood selected for this Article is representative of large floods
known to have occurred in this region and which are reasonably characteristic
of what can be expected to occur on the particular streams subject to this
Article. It is in the general order of a flood which could be expected to occur
on the average once every one hundred (100) years or has a one (1%) per cent
chance of occurrence in any one (1) year, as delineated on the preliminary
draft of the Federal Insurance Administrations Flood Insurance Study, and
illustrative materials (FIRM) dated June, 1978.
   (b)   Calculation of water surface profiles based upon a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the regulatory flood.
   (c)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one (1') foot at any point.
   (d)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no obstruction
is permitted which would cause any increase in flood height.
   (e)   Delineation of the floodway fringe, i.e, that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines but which still is subject to inundation by the
regulatory flood.
§ 9-604 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP.
   There is hereby adopted the map entitled "Flood Boundary and Floodway Map"
for the City of Wood River from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development Federal Insurance Administration and dated December 1, 1978. The
floodway fringe and floodway shown on this map indicate the areas for which
Sections 9-606 and 9-607 shall apply.
§ 9-605 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOOD
WAY MAP.
   The boundaries of the floodway and floodway fringe districts shall be
determined by scaling distances on the "Flood Boundary and Floodway Map." Where
interpretation is needed to the exact location of the boundaries, as for
example where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions, the Administrative Official shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Adjustment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the district
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his case to the
Board and to submit his own technical evidence, if he so desires.
§ 9-606 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; PERMITS.
   The Hall County Building Inspector shall review all building permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by Federal or State law (including Section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) and make
recommendations for development in all locations which have flood hazards.
   All applications for permits within designated flood-prone areas, shall be
accompanied by elevations (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
habitable floor (including basement) or in the case of floodproofed structures,
the elevation to which it has been floodproofed. Documentation or certification
of such elevations will be maintained by the Hall County Building Inspector.
(Amended by Ord. No. 287, 2/17/89)
§ 9-607 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; REGULATIONS IN FLOODWAY FRINGE.
   All uses shall be permitted within the Floodway Fringe, as delineated on the
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, as otherwise permitted within by this
Ordinance with the following additional requirements and safeguards:
   (a)   All applications for building permits for major repairs shall assure
utilization of construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage and utilize construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage.
   (b)   All applications for building permits for new construction or
substantial improvements shall assure that the proposed construction including
manufactured homes, is protected against flood damage; is designed or modified
and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure; utilizes construction materials and utilities equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and utilizes construction methods and practices that
will minimize flood damage.
   (c)   All mechanical and utility equipment shall be elevated to a minimum of
one foot above the elevation of the 100 year flood or designed so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (d)   All new or replacement water and/or sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration or contamination
of them by flood waters.
   (e)   All new construction or substantial improvements of existing
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basements, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the elevation of the one hundred (100)
year flood. The floodproofing method shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (f)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
Zones A1-30, AH and AE shall be elevated such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 100 year
flood and be adequately anchored in accordance with the provisions of state and
local regulations.
   (g)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the 100 year flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of this Ordinance. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the
community shall utilize any base flood elevation data currently available
within its area of jurisdiction.
   (h)   The Governing Body of the City to insure that the flood carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained. The City will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities
and the State Coordinating Office prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit copies of such notifications to the Administrator.
Moreover, the City will work with appropriate State and Federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in
accordance with the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. (Amended by
Ord. No. 287, 2/17/87)
§ 9-608 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; REGULATIONS IN FLOODWAY.
   Only uses having a low flood damage potential and not obstructing flood
flows shall be permitted within the floodway provided they do not require
structures, fill or storage of materials or equipment. No use shall increase
the flood levels of the regulatory flood elevation. The following uses shall be
permitted unless otherwise prohibited by other sections of the Zoning
Ordinance:
   (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry.
   (b)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas.
   (c)   Non-residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking, airport landing
strips.
   (d)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks wildlife and nature preserves.
§ 9-609 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall be required
to assure that
   (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage,
   (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage,
   (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards, and
   (d)   Proposals for development of five (5) acres or fifty (50) lots
whichever is less, including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, include
with such proposals the regulatory flood elevation. (Amended by Ord. No. 287,
2/17/89)
§ 9-610 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; EVACUATION PLAN.
   That an evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with appropriate Disaster Preparedness Authorities for
mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions located within the Flood
Boundary.
§ 9-611 FLOOD HAZARD ZONE; WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this Article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study, larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by man made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This Article does not imply that areas outside
floodway and floodway fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within
such districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Article shall
not create liability on the part of the City of Wood River or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this
Article or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
ARTICLE 7. PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
§ 9-702 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
3.   TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
4.   PLUMBERS AND ELECTRICIANS
      
5.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
      
6.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
7.   FRANCHISES
      
8.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
9.   NATURAL GAS RATE INCREASE PROCEDURE
      
10.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 10-101 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska. (Ref.
53-103 RS Neb.)
§ 10-102 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-103 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage, or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within one hundred and fifty (150') feet of any church,
school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives
or children; Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any location within
such distance when the said establishment has been licensed by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission at least two (2) years, and to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where the
selling of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the
said hotel, club, or restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May 24,
1935. No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premise within three hundred (300') feet from the campus of any college
within the Municipality. (Ref. 53-177 RS Neb.)
§ 10-104 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from such premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premise, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his family, or personal guests. (Ref. 53-178 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-105 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license
to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§ 10-106 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premise is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 28,
Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state; a
person who has never had a liquor license revoked for cause; a person whose
premises, for which a license is sought, meets standards for fire safety as
established by the State Fire Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a
beneficial interest in more than two (2) alcoholic beverage retail
establishments since March 4, 1963; Provided, the beneficial interest
requirement in this Section shall not apply to a person applying for an
additional license for use in connection with the operation of a hotel
containing at least twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, or where the request is
limited to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant. (Ref. 53-124.03, 53-
125 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 251, 1/3/84)
§ 10-107 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify by registered or certified mail the Municipal Clerk. The Governing
Body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and
report in writing or in person to the Commission within thirty (30) days. The
Governing Body may examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant;
examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant;
to hear testimony, and to take proof for its information in the performance of
its duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the
Governing Body may authorize its agent, or the Municipal Attorney, to act on
their behalf. The Governing Body may hold the said examination and hearing upon
the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application. The
Governing Body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held, and
at which time the Governing Body may receive competent evidence under oath,
either orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant or any other person
concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice shall be
published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the
Municipality one (1) time not less than seven (7), nor more than fourteen (14),
days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be
limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the
local Governing Body in support of or protest against the issuance of such
license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not
more than twenty-one (21) days after the receipt of the Commission's letter of
notice and after such hearing, the Governing Body shall cause to be spread at
large in the minute record of their proceedings a resolution recommending
either issuance or refusal of said applicant. The Municipal Clerk shall
thereupon mail to the Commission a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice except that failure to hold a hearing and to
examine the said applicant shall not render void any license issued by the
Commission. In the event the Commission refuses to issue a license, the cost of
the publication of notice as herein required shall be paid by the Commission.
(Ref. 53-131, 53-134 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 251, 1/3/84)
§ 10-107.01 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   The City Council adopts the following licensing standards and criteria for
consideration by the Liquor Control Commission of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, in
accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, Neb. Rev. Stat. §53-132(3)(a)
and Section 7 of Legislative Bill 911, Eighty Ninth Legislature, Second
Session, 1986:
   1.   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area.
   2.   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking.
   3.   Zoning restrictions.
   4.   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises.
   5.   The existing population, and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served.
   6.   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license, and the
distance and times of travel to such licenses.
   7.   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth.
   8.   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
   9.   Whether the applicant can insure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb.
Rev. Stat. §53-102 of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   10.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management and
control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure that
the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements, rules and
regulations provided for in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   11.   The background information of the applicants established by
information contained in the public records of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission. The applicants past compliance with state laws and liquor
regulations and municipal ordinances and regulations.
   12.   If the application is for an on-sale license, whether it is adjunct to
a legitimate food service operation as evidenced by percent of gross income
allocated to food and liquor, and the type and extent of kitchen facilities.
   14.   Whether the type of entertainment to be offered, if any, will be
appropriate and nondisruptive to the neighborhood where the premises are
located and to the community at large.
   15.   Whether or not applicant has ever forfeited bond to appear in court to
answer charges of having committed a felony, or charges of having violated any
law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good morals and decency, or has
been convicted of violating for forfeiting bond to appear in court and answer
charges for violating any law or ordinance relating to alcoholic liquors.
   16.   Other information and data that may reasonably be considered pertinent
to the issuance of the license.
   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term "applicants" as used herein is synonymous with "license." (Ref. 53-134 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 280, 8/5/86)
§ 10-108 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
Municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this Article until the original license expires,
is canceled, or revoked. If such license expires within sixty (60) days
following the annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order
of the Commission for not more than one (1) year. The Municipal Clerk, upon
notice from the Commission, between January tenth (10th) and January thirtieth
(30th) of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of
general circulation in the Municipality, one (1) time, a notice in the form
prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license within the Municipality; Provided, Class C license renewal notices
shall be published between the dates of July tenth (10th) and July thirtieth
(30th) of each year. The Municipal Clerk shall then file with the Commission
proof of publication of said notice on or before February tenth (10th) of each
year or August tenth (10th) of each year for Class C licenses. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this Section, the Governing Body may
request a licensee to submit an application. (Ref. 53-135, 53-135.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 251, 1/3/84)
§ 10-109 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Governing Body is authorized to regulate by ordinance not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all
retail and bottle club licensees carried on within the corporate limits. The
Governing Body shall further have the power and duties in respect to licensed
retailers of alcoholic beverages to cancel or revoke for cause retail or bottle
club licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors issued to persons for
premises within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to the
Commission; to enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premise licensed by the State of Nebraska to determine
whether any of the provisions of the Municipal laws, or the laws of the State
of Nebraska, are being violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens
within its jurisdiction that any of the Municipal laws, or laws of the State of
Nebraska, are being violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner
herein provided; to cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the
same notice and hearing as provided in Section 10-107, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance or regulation duly enacted relating to
alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the benefit of the State of Nebraska and
the Municipality all license fees and occupation taxes as prescribed by law.
(Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 251, 1/3/84)
§ 10-109.5 MUNICIPAL LICENSE FEE FOR SPECIAL DESIGNATED LICENSE FOR SALE OR
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   The City Council and the City of Wood River, Nebraska, recognizing the need
and desirability of providing a municipal fee for special designated licenses
for sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor issued by the Nebraska Liquor
Commission, hereby adopts the following fee schedule:
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, applicants applying
for a special designated license for sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor
pursuant to Section 53-124.11 RS Neb. shall be required to pay to the City
Clerk at the time of issuance of the license an administrative fee.
   (B)   The amount of the municipal fee to be collected by the City Clerk for
a special designated license for sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor shall
be equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the fee charged by the Nebraska Liquor
Commission pursuant to Section 53-124.11(3) RS Neb. and shall be remitted by
the City Clerk to the Treasurer for credit to the Wood River General Fund. The
fee to be paid to the City shall be in addition to the fees paid to or for the
benefit of the Nebraska Liquor Commission under the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act. (Ord. No. 485, 4/5/05)
§ 10-110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code Section or Nebraska
Statute. (Ref. 53-1,101 RS Neb.)
§ 10-111 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him personally. (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-112 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CLEAR VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels, and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of such licensed premise
from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. All licensed premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white
lights to insure the clear visibility into said establishment. Any licensee who
willfully violates the provisions of this Section shall be subject to a
revocation of his license by the Municipality as provided herein. (Ref. 53-167
RS Neb.)
§ 10-113 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, or make a gift of,
any alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor,
or other person who is mentally, physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.)
§ 10-114 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; Provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any bona fide club from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members,
or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said members or guests
in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and Provided further, nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by bona fide guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests. (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.)
§ 10-115 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premise of such
licensee. (Ref. 53-174 RS Neb.)
§ 10-116 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package. (Ref. 53-184 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-117 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   (1)   No alcoholic liquors, including beer and wine, shall be sold at retail
or dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 AM and 6:00 AM.
   (2)   Beer and wine may be sold for consumption on or off the premises
between the hours of 6:00 AM and 1:00 AM the following day on Sunday through
Saturday.
   (3)   Alcoholic liquor may be sold for consumption on or off the premises
between the hours of 6:00 AM and 1:00 AM the following day on Monday through
Saturday. Alcoholic liquor may be sold for consumption on or off the premises
on Sunday between the hours of 12:00 PM and 1:00 AM the following day.
   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than fifteen (15) minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
For the purposes of this section, "on sale" is defined as alcoholic beverages
sold at retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of
the licensed establishment.
(Ref. 53-179 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. Nos. 152, 2/8/77; 229, 5/4/82; 305, 4/4/
89; 575, 2/8/22)
§ 10-118 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license. (Ref. 53-118
RS Neb.)
§ 10-119 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors,
including beer, to said licensee's customers. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-120 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment. (Ref. 53-186, 53-186.01 RS Neb.)
§ 10-121 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act; Providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests,
as long as the quantity of alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought,
shipped or caused to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into the
State for personal use does not exceed one (1) gallon at any one (1) time or in
excess of two (2) gallons in any one (1) calendar month, nor prevent the making
of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the maker, his family and his
guests; Provided further, that nothing herein shall prevent any duly licensed
practicing physician or dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in
the strict practice of his profession, or any hospital or institution caring
for the sick and diseased persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the
treatment of bona fide patients of such hospital or other institution; Provided
further, that any drug store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and
use alcoholic liquors in the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed
physicians; and Provided further, that the possession and dispensation of wine
by an authorized representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any
bona fide rite or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be
prohibited by this Section; Provided further, that persons who are sixteen (16)
years old or older may carry beer from grocery stores when they are accompanied
by a person not a minor, persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may
handle beer containers and beer in the course of their employment in grocery
stores, and persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may remove and
dispose of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of their employer
and customers in the course of their employment as waiters, waitresses, or
busboys, by any restaurant, club, hotel, or similar organization; and Provided
further, that persons who are nineteen (19) years old or older may serve or
sell alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment. (Ref. 53-102, 53-
164.01, 53-175 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 276, 12/17/85)
ARTICLE 2. PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 10-201 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, and to prevent door-
to-door solicitations for the purchase of goods from the residents of the
municipality, all peddlers, and hawkers , and prospective purchasers of
property intending to canvass the municipality on a door-to-door basis, shall,
before doing business within the Municipality, make application for, and be
issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be made to the Municipal
Clerk, and shall contain all the necessary information, and documents required
for the protection of the residents of the Municipality. Any person or persons
granted a peddler, hawker or purchaser's permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes, and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body
deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall
be subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the Municipal Police
Chief. (Ref. 17-134, 17-525 17-562 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 316, 12/5/89)
§ 10-202 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit any
individual between the hours of six (6:00) o'clock P.M., and eight (8:00)
o'clock A.M., unless they have a previous appointment with the resident, or
residents, of the premise solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a
solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his
person at all times. (Ref. 17-134 17-562 RS Neb.)
§ 10-203 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons,
selling produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salesmen soliciting
merchants directly, or to a representative of a non-profit or charity
organization soliciting on behalf of that organization. (Ref. 17-562 RS Neb.)
§ 10-204 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a permit fee of fifty ($50.00) dollars to cover the
cost of processing the application and issuing the permit. (Ref. 17-525 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 286, 1/6/87)
§ 10-205 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   All permits issued shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
§ 10-206 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to examine all places of
business and persons subject to the provisions of this Article and to enforce
the provisions herein against any person found to be violating the same. (Ref.
17-134, 75-334 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 3. TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 10-301 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
   CHIEF BUILDING INSPECTOR. The term "Chief Building Inspector" shall mean the
legally designated authority of the Municipality or his authorized
representative, or any person designated as such by the City Council of Wood
River, Nebraska.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. The term "independent mobile home" shall mean a
mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath or shower.
   MOBILE HOME. The term "mobile home," also known as a "trailer," shall mean
any vehicle or similar portable structure designated for use as a conveyance
upon highways, having no foundation other than wheels or removable jack and so
designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping
purposes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. The term "mobile home park" shall mean any plot of ground
licensed as such by the Municipality upon which six (6) or more mobile homes
occupies for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located. It shall include and
have the same meaning as "trailer court" or "mobile home court".
   PERMIT. The term "permit" shall mean a written permit issued by the Chief
Building Inspector promulgated thereunder.
   SERVICE BUILDING. The term "service building" shall mean a building housing
toilet and bathing facilities for men and women with laundry facilities and
other facilities as may be required by this Article.
   JURISDICTION. It is intended that the provisions of this Article shall be
enforced within the Municipality and in the one (1) mile area beyond its
corporate limits insofar as compliance with regulations is possible.
  § 10-302 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, conduct, establish, or maintain
any place or ground for the purpose of a mobile home park unless a permit to do
so shall have been first issued by the Municipality.
§ 10-303 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for a mobile home park permit shall be in writing and signed by
the applicant or his authorized agent and shall contain the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant.
   B.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal description
of the mobile home park.
   C.   A complete plan of the mobile home park, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Article and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   D.   Such further information as may be requested by the Chief Building
Inspector to enable him to determine that the proposed mobile home park will
comply with legal requirements.
§ 10-304 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARK; PERMIT RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal of permits under this Article shall be made in
writing by the holder of the permit or his authorized agent and shall contain
the following:
   A.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
permit was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   B.   Such other information as the proper City officials may require.
§ 10-305 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PLANS TO BE FILED.
   The applicant for a permit required by this Article, or his authorized
agent, shall file with the Chief Building Inspector a complete plan showing:
   A.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land to be used for such mobile
home park.
   B.   The number location, and size of all mobile home spaces.
   C.   The location and width of roadways and walkways.
   D.   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures.
   E.   The location and size of water and sewer lines.
   F.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park.
§ 10-306 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; EXAMINATION OF PLANS BY BUILDING
INSPECTOR.
   Before any permit is issued to construct a mobile home park, it shall be the
duty of the Chief Building Inspector to examine the plans and specifications of
such park on file, as well as the proposed premises on which such park is to be
constructed for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not all ordinances
pertaining to zoning, plumbing, heating and electrical installations have been
observed and if all regulations of the Municipality concerning the construction
and operation of sewer and water mains and the handling and removal of garbage
comply with Municipal ordinances and the laws of the State. The application for
such permit, together with the findings and recommendations of the Chief
Building Inspector shall then be referred to the Governing Body for its
approval or rejection.
§ 10-307 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PERMIT FEE.
   If the Governing Body grants such permit required by this Article to any
such applicant, it shall thereupon direct the Chief Building Inspector to issue
such permit upon prepayment of a permit fee in the amount of twenty-five
($25.00) dollars to the Building Department, which fee shall be paid annually.
§ 10-308 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If any operator of a mobile home park to whom a permit has been issued shall
continue to violate the ordinances of the Municipality or the laws of the state
pertaining to sanitation, public health, and welfare after due notice by the
offices of the Municipality or the state, of such violation, the Governing Body
shall have the right to revoke his permit to operate such park in the following
manner:
   A notice shall be served on the person holding such permit, setting forth
therein that the permittee has failed to comply with this Article or other
Ordinances of the Municipality or laws of the state and citing him to appear
before the Governing Body at a day and hour therein specified, not less than
three (3) days nor more than seven (7) days after the personal service of such
notice on such permittee or his agent in charge of such mobile home park and
show cause, if any, why such permit should not be revoked or suspended. At the
time and place mentioned in such notice, the permittee shall have the right to
appear in person or by counsel and to introduce such evidence as he may desire.
§ 10-309 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; TRANSFER AND EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this Article shall be transferable.
   All permits granted hereunder shall expire on the thirty-first (31st) day of
December following the date of issuance unless sooner revoked.
§ 10-310 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on private or public property
unless otherwise provided in this Section.
   Any person engaged in the business of selling mobile homes shall be
permitted to use one (1) mobile home on the lot or tract of land where such
established business is conducted for a business office or for accommodations
for the manager, salesman, attendant or watchman. Such mobile home used for
such purposes may be connected with the sanitary sewer, Municipal water main
and electric power line.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or keep any mobile home or
trailer used for living or sleeping purposes on any public or private property
except in approved mobile home parks or as herein provided, on tracts of land
where an established business of buying, trading and selling mobile homes and
trailers in conducted.
   Any mobile home or trailer parked and kept in violation of this Article
shall be removed from the premises on which it is being parked or kept, and it
shall be the duty of the Chief Building Inspector, or his assistants, to
enforce the provisions of this Section. A written notice shall be served upon
any person violating the provisions of the Section, and such mobile home or
trailer shall be removed from the premises within ten (10) days from the date
of such written notice, with the provision that any mobile home parked on
private property already being lived in at the time of the passage of this
Article within the corporate limits of the Municipality and in the one (1) mile
area beyond its corporate limits of the Municipality and which is not in
violation with any of the other provisions of this Article may continue to
remain at the particular location where parked; with the further provision that
any mobile home that is now occupied cannot be replaced, extended or enlarged,
and when the mobile home permitted by the exception is no longer used as living
quarters, it shall be removed and cannot be replaced by anything in conflict
with this Article.
   Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to prevent the keeping
and parking of trailers used for carrying luggage, baggage and boats on private
property, nor shall it be construed to prevent the owner of a trailer used for
vacation and camping purposes from storing or keeping the same on private
property if the same is not used for living or sleeping purposes were kept and
stored.
§ 10-311 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; SEMI-ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief Building Inspector to inspect all mobile
home parks now existing in the Municipality and in the area one (1) mile beyond
its corporate limits and all mobile home parks hereafter established at least
semi-annually. No charge shall be made for such inspection, and the owners of
such mobile home parks shall be furnished in writing the results of such
inspection.
§ 10-312 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, as owner or operator of any mobile home
park, to fail to keep a register containing a record of all mobile homes kept
on his premises in the ordinary course of business, specifying the date of
arrival and date of departure, full name and permanent address of the owner.
Such register shall at all times be open for inspection to Police officials or
other officials of the Municipality.
§ 10-313 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PARK GROUND AND SERVICE BUILDINGS
REQUIRED.
   Every person owning, operating or caring for a mobile home park shall
maintain such park ground, service buildings, baths or other permanent
equipment in connection herewith in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
maintain such equipment in a state of good repair and shall in all respects
comply with all the ordinances of the Municipality.
§ 10-314 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or conduct a mobile home park
within the Municipality or in the one (1) mile area beyond its corporate limits
except in districts zoned for that purpose.
§ 10-315 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; LOCATION AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The mobile home park shall be located on a well drained site and shall be so
located that its drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such mobile
home parks shall be in the areas free from marshes, swamp or other potential
breeding places for insects or rodents.
   The area of the mobile home park shall be large enough to accommodate:
   A.   The designated number of home spaces.
   B.   Necessary streets and roadways.
   C.   Off-street parking of automobiles shall be provided. Parking spaces may
be provided on unit space where trailers are parked, by separate parking areas
or both.
   Each independent mobile home space shall contain a minimum of two thousand
eight hundred (2,800) square feet.
   Every mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or other clear area with
unobstructed access to a public street. Such places shall be defined.
   Mobile homes shall be parked in such spaces so that there will be a minimum
of fifteen (15) feet between mobile homes and so that no mobile home will be
less than ten (10) feet from the exterior boundary of the mobile home park. It
shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home less than twenty-five (25) feet from
any state highway or so that any part of such mobile home will obstruct any
roadway or walkway in a mobile home park.
   It shall be unlawful to allow any mobile home to be occupied in a mobile
home park unless the mobile home is situated on a mobile home space.
   Access roads shall be provided to each mobile home space. Each access road
shall provide for continuous forward movement, shall connect with a street or
highway and shall have a minimum width of forty (40) feet.
§ 10-316 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; WATER AND SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   An adequate supply of potable water from the Municipal Water System for
drinking and domestic purposes shall be supplied to meet the requirements of
such park ground. Such water supply shall be connected by pipes to all mobile
home spaces for connection to mobile home units.
   Each mobile home park shall have an adequate connection with the sanitary
sewer system of the Municipality, and there shall be a sanitary sewer
connection on each unit space in such park for connection with the mobile homes
when unit spaces are occupied. It is expressly provided that when such unit
spaces are unoccupied the outlet in the sanitary sewer shall be capped by a
device which would require tools to remove.
   In all cases where mobile home parks are so situated that connections with
the Municipal Water Main or the Sanitary Sewer System are not available, the
private water supply of such mobile home park and the sanitary disposal system
therefor shall be located and constructed or reconstructed to meet standards
approved by the National Plumbing Code of the Municipality.
§ 10-317 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; ELECTRICAL OUTLETS REQUIRED.
   An electrical outlet supplying at least one hundred and fifteen (115) volts
shall be provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply
with all applicable state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such
electrical outlets shall be grounded and weatherproof. No main power supply
line shall be permitted to lie on the ground or to be suspended less than
eighteen (18) feet above the ground. Public streets, driveways and walkways
shall be adequately lighted.
§ 10-318 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; MASTER ELECTRIC METERS REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home park shall have installed a master electric meter which
will accurately measure all electrical current used by the inhabitants of the
trailers and mobile homes placed within said park. The owner or operator shall
then be liable for the monthly electric charges of all electric current used
within the park.
§ 10-319 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; BUILDING CODE APPLICABLE.
   The construction of the buildings in any mobile home park to be erected
after the passage and approval of this Article, shall be in accordance with the
rules and regulations governing the construction of buildings as set forth in
the Building Code of the Municipality.
§ 10-320 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; GARBAGE STORAGE, COLLECTION AND
DISPOSAL.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall
be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   All refuse shall be stored in containers approved by the Municipal
Sanitation Department or an incinerator as approved by law.
   Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse.
   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container
racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them.
   All refuse shall be collected at least two (2) times weekly. Where suitable
collection service is not available from Municipal or private agencies, the
mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All refuse shall be
collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
§ 10-321 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; REMOVAL OF WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a mobile home park
to remove, cause to be removed or otherwise permanently fix the wheels or other
similar device of any mobile home to the ground in a manner that would prevent
the ready removal of such mobile home.
   Any alterations to any mobile homes, as set forth above, shall be construed
as removing it from the requirements of this Article and converting it into a
dwelling, and it shall then be deemed to be in violation of the Building Code
of the Municipality.
§ 10-322 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; PETS NOT TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home
park.
§ 10-323 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; FUEL STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be copper or other acceptable tubing and shall be permanently installed
and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinder shall be
securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath the
mobile home or less than five (5) feet from any mobile home exit.
§ 10-324 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; FIRE PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Fire prevention in all mobile home parks shall be under the direct
supervision of the Governing Body and its officials charged with the duty of
fire prevention in the Municipality.
   Mobile home park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Fire Department shall
be kept in service buildings and at all other places designated by such Fire
Department and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
§ 10-325 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All proper officials, agents, and employees of the Municipality charged with
the duty of inspection of mobile home parks or the enforcement of the
provisions of this Article or of repairing and maintaining the utilities
constructed on such park grounds shall have the right and they are hereby
empowered to enter upon the premises of any mobile home park ground now
operating or which may hereafter be operated within the Municipality or the one
(1) mile area thereto to inspect the same and all accommodations connected
therewith or located thereon and to enforce the provisions of this Article.
§ 10-326 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; EXISTING PARKS NOT AFFECTED.
   Mobile home parks in existence prior to the passage date of this Article
shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article other than specified
herein. Any changes, additions, either in unite spaces, sewage disposal
systems, water systems, electrical systems, etc., shall be made upon the
approval of the enforcing authorities of the Municipality.
§ 10-327 TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME PARKS; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Governing Body of the Municipality may, sitting as a Board of
Adjustment, make decisions from this Article as may be necessary in justice and
equity.
[This Article was originally adopted as Ordinance Number 1-68, January 1968.
The definition of "Mobile Home Park" in Section 10-301 was revised to include
six (6) or more mobile homes, and Section 10-318 was added to the original
ordinance with the adoption of this Code.]
ARTICLE 4. PLUMBERS AND ELECTRICIANS
§ 10-401 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter engage in or work at the business of a master
plumber or journeyman plumber in the Municipality until he shall have
registered as a master plumber or journeyman plumber. Application for
registration shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk, showing the name
and residence of the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and
such other information as may be required.
§ 10-402 PLUMBERS; BOND AND FEES.
   Before a license is issued by the Municipal Clerk, the applicant shall file
with the Municipal Clerk a bond, in an amount set by resolution of the
Governing Body and on file at the office of the Clerk, signed by one (1) or
more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Governing Body of a surety bond
of the same amount issued by an approved corporate surety Company. Said bond
shall contain the condition that the applicant shall defend, save, keep
harmless, and indemnify the Municipality from all liabilities, claims, damages,
judgments, costs, and expenses of every nature and description caused by the
willful or negligent conduct of the plumber while engaged in the business of
plumbing. The provisions of the Section may be satisfied by the applicant
depositing with the Clerk an insurance policy providing public liability and
property damage insurance to the Municipality and the general public in the
same amount as the bond, executed by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Nebraska; Provided, an endorsement, approved as to
form by the Municipal Attorney, shall be attached to and become part of each
and every such liability insurance policy deposited with the Municipality, and
said endorsement shall contain each and every condition of said bond required
by the Governing Body. The obligee of said bond or the beneficiary of said
insurance policy shall be the Municipality, and action may be maintained
thereon by anyone injured by a breach of the conditions of said bond or of the
covenants contained in the required endorsement on said policy of insurance for
a period of one (1) year after the completion of any plumbing work.
   In addition, each plumber shall pay a yearly registration fee as set by
resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
§ 10-403 PLUMBERS; EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   All registrations shall expire on the thirty-first (31st) day of December of
the year in which they are issued, and shall not be assignable. Certificates of
Registration, at the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon the
recommendation of the Utilities Superintendent, without an examination, upon
payment of the required registration fee.
§ 10-404 ELECTRICIANS; REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of installing
electric wiring or apparatus within any building in the Municipality without
first obtaining from the Municipal Clerk a master electrician's license or job
permit if the applicant holds a State license. Application for a master
electrician's license of job permit shall be in writing upon forms furnished by
the Municipal Clerk and shall require such information and documents, or copies
thereof, as the Governing Body deems necessary to ascertain the propriety of
granting the said license. Upon the satisfaction of the Municipal Clerk and the
Governing Body of the applicant's competence, the Governing Body shall direct
the Municipal Clerk to grant the license or permit after the payment of a fee
set by resolution of the Governing Body. All licenses whether licensed by the
State of Municipality shall be subject to any occupation taxes, bond
requirements, and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body may
determine to be beneficial to the Municipality; Provided, State licenses shall
not be subject to any Municipal regulations pertaining to workman
qualifications. Any license issued by the Municipality may be revoked at any
time by the Governing Body.
ARTICLE 5. RAILROAD COMPANIES
§ 10-501 RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSINGS.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the Municipality to keep in a suitable, and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the Municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to
make whatever repairs that they may deem necessary to correct the dangerous
condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent
of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to
repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within forty-eight (48)
hours, neglect for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter shall be deemed, and
is hereby made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(Ref. 17-143, 17-144 RS Neb.)
§ 10-502 RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the Municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than ten (10) minutes. (Ref. 17-552 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 6. OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 10-601 OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following business:
Alcoholic Beverages
   Retailers of Alcoholic Beverages, including Beer,
   On and Off Sale, (Class C Licensees), per year   $300.00
   Fire Insurance Companies, per year   5.00
§ 10-602 OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-603 OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of May
of each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon
the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said
Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying
the tax, and the amount paid; Provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C
licensees shall be due and payable on the first (1st) day of November. The
revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by
the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him. All forms, and receipts herein mentioned
shall be issued in duplicate. One (1) copy shall then be kept by each party in
the transaction.
§ 10-604 OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
§ 10-605 OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall the proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) per cent per month
until paid.
ARTICLE 7. FRANCHISES
§ 10-701 FRANCHISE; NATURAL GAS.
   The Governing Body has granted to the Kansas-Nebraska Natural Gas Company,
Inc. the authority to construct, maintain, and operate a gas transmission, and
distribution system within the Municipality. Actual details of the agreement,
and the present gas rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk's office. (Ref. 17-528.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 180, 2/13/79) (Amended by
Ord. No. 405, 4/7/98)
ARTICLE 8. CABLE TELEVISION
§ 10-801 CABLE TELEVISION; FRANCHISE AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to grant an exclusive
franchise for the operation of a community antenna television system pursuant
to Sections 18-2201 through 18-2205 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1977
and as may be hereinafter amended. The Mayor and City Council may further grant
to a Franchisee the right, privilege and franchise to erect, construct, operate
and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets,
alleys, and public ways not laid out or dedicated and all extensions and
additions thereto in the City for the placement of poles, wires, cables,
underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and fixtures
necessary for the maintenance and operation of a community antenna television
system for the interception, sale transmission and distribution of television
programs and other audio visual electrical signals and the right to transmit
the same to the inhabitants of the City on such terms and conditions as may be
set forth in the Franchise Agreement. (Ord. No. 186, 8/7/79)
§ 10-801.01 CABLE TELEVISION; GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   The Governing Body has granted to Charter Communications, its successors or
assigns a franchise to own and operate and maintain a cable system within the
City of Wood River, setting forth conditions accompanying the grant of
franchise and providing for the regulation and use of said system. Actual
details of the Franchise Agreement, and the present rates, charges, and fees
are available at the City Clerk's office for inspection during normal business
hours. (Ord. No. 544, 6/6/16)
§ 10-802 CABLE TELEVISION; OCCUPATION TAX.
   There is hereby created an Occupation Tax to be paid by the Franchisee of
the community antenna television service which shall be calculated as follows:
Two (2%) percent times the base rate charged to subscribers times the number of
subscribers for each year of operation. The Tax shall be paid annually
commencing on May 1 of the first (1st) year of operation by the Franchisee and
continuing on May first (1st) of each succeeding year. Each payment of the Tax
shall be accompanied by a statement of an officer of the Franchisee certifying
the number of subscribers served during the preceding year. (Ord. No. 186, 8/7/
79)
§ 10-803 CABLE TELEVISION; THEFT OF SERVICE; VIOLATION, PENALTY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
connect to, tap into any existing service line, or hook up to any community
antenna television service line without having first contracted with the
operator of the community antenna television system for the reception of any
television program or other audio visual electrical signals.
   Every person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions of
this Article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall for each offense, be fined in any sum not to exceed one hundred
($100.00) dollars and may be prosecuted for a separate continuing offense for
each day that any television program or other audio visual electrical signal is
received in violation of this Article. (Ord. No. 186, 8/7/79)
§ 10-804 CABLE TELEVISION; SUBSCRIBER FEES AND RATES.
   A.   It is the intention of the City by the adoption of these provisions, to
follow the regulations established by the Federal Communications Commission for
the regulation of rates for cable TV franchise holders.
   B.   The initial fees to be charged to subscribers for all services,
including installation fees and other one-time charges, shall be specified in
any franchise agreement issued by the City.
   C.   The fees and charges subject to regulation by the City pursuant to
state and federal law shall not be increased without prior review by the City.
   D.   In order to obtain City review for rate increases, the franchise shall
file a revised schedule of rates with the City at least thirty (30) days in
advance of a proposed rate increase. This filing shall specify the rates or
fees to be increased and associated regulations which may affect charges to the
subscriber and the justification for said increases and charges. The franchisee
shall promptly submit any additional supporting information requested by the
City.
   E.   Within thirty (30) days of the rate increase filing, the City shall
schedule two (2) public meetings before the Council to hear a rate payer and
franchisee comment on the proposed increase. Following the public meetings, the
Council may determine whether or not to grant the proposed increase or a
portion thereof prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, unless
the thirty (30) day deadline is tolled by the City for an additional ninety
(90) days to consider the request.
   F.   At least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed rate increase, each
rate payer or subscriber shall be notified in writing by the franchisee of the
changes in rates proposed.
   G.   Rates and charges may be reduced at any time without prior City
approval, provided that the reductions do not result in rates which are
unreasonably discriminatory to any subscriber or class of subscribers. Where
temporary reductions are put into effect for promotional purposes for a
specified time period, the return to the permanent rates shall not be
considered a rate increase for purpose of this Chapter. The City shall be
notified of all reductions in rates, whether permanent or temporary.
   H.   Rates and charges not subject to regulation by the City under state or
federal law or regulation may be changed by the franchisee following a minimum
thirty (30) day prior notice to the City and the subscribers. (Ord. No. 362, 3/
8/94)
ARTICLE 9. NATURAL GAS RATE INCREASE PROCEDURE
[Editor's Note: Unless otherwise noted, the sections of Article 9 were adopted
by Ordinance No. 270, passed on October 22, 1985]
§ 10-901 RATES; REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The FRANCHISEE shall at all times be subject to all rights, power and
authority now or hereafter possessed by the City to regulate and control and
direct the rates and tariffs charged for natural gas service in the City.
§ 10-902 RATE SCHEDULES.
   FRANCHISEE shall provide to the City for informational purposes, copies of
all rate schedules and contracts for all rates charged and the requirements for
service under such schedule within the City. They should also show separately
the base rate and the Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) rate. The base rate shall
exclude all gas supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments. Gas supply costs
and gas supply cost adjustments shall be collected solely through the PGA rate.
§ 10-903 REFUND.
   Any refund including interest thereon, if any, received by the FRANCHISEE
from its supplier related to increased rates paid by the FRANCHISEE subject to
refund and applicable to natural gas purchased for resale within the City shall
be passed on to presently served customers by an appropriate adjustment shown
as a credit on subsequent bills during a period selected by the FRANCHISEE, not
to exceed twelve (12) months, or by a cash refund at the FRANCHISEE'S OPTION or
by such other method as may be established by ordinance.
§ 10-904 OTHER RATE CHANGES.
   In the event the FRANCHISEE desires to change its rates for natural gas
service within the City other then to reflect an adjustment for the cost of
purchased gas, the FRANCHISEE will present to the City copies of present and
proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed rates to be
charged for natural gas service within the City. The rate schedule and
information submitted with the rate schedules shall be referred to as the Rate
Filing. A filing fee in the amount of fifty (50%) percent of the most recent
calendar year FRANCHISE payment shall be paid to the City with the Rate Filing.
Any such Rate Filing shall be deemed filed upon receipt of the same and the
filing fee by the City Clerk. The fee shall be considered as an operating cost
of the FRANCHISEE and shall not be separately itemized on any customer
billings.
   The City Council shall have the right to select and engage rate consultants,
accountants, auditors, attorneys, engineers and other experts as deemed
necessary or desirable by the City Council to advise and represent the City
Council in evaluating any proposed rate change. FRANCHISEE shall reimburse the
City within ninety (90) days of the presentation of a bill by the City for the
reasonable costs of those services only to the extent that said costs exceed
the filing fee for the Rate Filing.
   If the proposed rates sought by the FRANCHISEE in its Rate Filing have not
been passed on final reading by the City Council within ninety (90) days after
it was filed, or as such time may be extended by agreement between FRANCHISEE
and CITY in order to supply additional information if requested by the CITY,
the proposed rates shall be put into effect as interim rates and shall be
collected subject to refund pursuant to Section 18-415 of the Nebraska Revised
Statutes, 1943, as the same may be amended from time to time. Such interim
rates shall remain in effect pending final determination by the CITY, which
determination shall be made within one (1) year, or in the event of litigation,
final rate determination by the courts.
   The rates proposed to be charged for non-contract firm natural gas service
within the CITY shall be based upon the utility's cost of providing service to
the CITY or the representative costs in that part of utility's service area
which includes the CITY. The period for which the cost of service is to be
recognized is to be projected twelve (12) month period commencing not later
than the proposed effective date of the increase. The cost of service shall be
determined in a manner consistent with regulated public utility practices and
shall include (1) appropriate costs as defined and set forth in the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission Uniform System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural
Gas Companies FERC Accounts, and (2) a reasonable return on the utility's rate
base.
   In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be employed
that is representative of the cost of debt, preferred stock, and common equity
capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC Accounts), allowance for working capital,
and such other items as may reasonably be included; less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capitol.
   The FRANCHISEE'S appropriate costs and items of rate base shall include
allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items, when such allocations or
apportionments are reasonably representative of assigned common costs and arise
from the manner in which the FRANCHISEE'S operations are conducted or from an
avoidance of excessive and costly financial recordkeeping.
   Rate filings, not including changes reflecting the cost of gas, shall be
limited to a maximum of one (1) in any twelve (12) calendar month period.
§ 10-905 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   FRANCHISEE shall provide, in its Rate Filing, three (3) copies of its most
recent annual report to the stockholders and the completed and signed copies of
the "SUMMARY OF PROPOSED CHANGES IN NATURAL GAS RATES," a copy of the form is
attached and made a part of this Ordinance. In addition three (3) copies of the
following information shall, on request by CITY, be provided by the FRANCHISEE:
   A.   A financial summary showing aggregate rate base, operating revenues,
operating expenses, return on rate base, and rate of return:
      1.   Actual for the most recent calendar year preceding the date of
submission.
      2.   For the projected twelve (12) month period using natural gas rates
currently in effect.
      3.   For the projected twelve (12) month period using the proposed
natural gas rates.
   B.   Rate base schedules, on an original cost basis, showing for the most
recent twelve (12) month period available and for the projected twelve (12)
month period:
      1.   For utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components - the beginning and end of period balances by account, explanations
of changes in balances during the period, and the calculated rate base amounts.
      2.   For cash working capital - in manner in which rate base amounts are
calculated.
      3.   For other rate base components - beginning and end of period
amounts, explanations of changes in balances during the period, and calculated
rate base amounts.
      4.   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in 1, 2,
and 3 above.
   C.   Operating expense schedules, showing:
      1.   Expenses by FERC accounts for the most recent calendar year
including filing fees and occupation taxes paid to the CITY.
      2.   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in 1.
      3.   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
twelve (12) month period.
      4.   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses.
      5.   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in 3.
   D.   Rate of return/cost of capital schedules showing debt, preferred stock,
and common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the projected twelve (12)
month period, explanations of changes during the period, and methods used to
calculate or otherwise determine cost of capital.
   E.   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
      1.   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year.
      2.   Number of customers and volume of sales by customer classes for the
projected twelve (12) month period.
      3.   Explanation of methods employed to determine data in 2.
      4.   Operating revenues by rate schedules for the projected twelve (12)
month period using current rates.
      5.   Operating revenue by customer classes for the projected twelve (12)
month period using proposed rates.
      6.   Detailed rates and calculations for 4 and 5, including customer
usages (consumption and analysis) data, peak demand and load factor data by
customer class, allocation methods and justifications.
   F.   Informational Schedules showing for the CITY as a whole:
      1.   Cost of utility plant.
      2.   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes.
   G.   FRANCHISEE shall clearly designate as part of its expenses, all
expenditures for business gifts and entertainment, institutional, consumption
inducing, and other advertising or public relations expenses, and legislative-
advocacy expenses. The CITY may not allow its cost of expenses for rate making
purposes any of these expenditures which the CITY determines not to be in the
public interest. FRANCHISEE has the burden of showing these expenses are in the
public interest.
§ 10-906 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   FRANCHISEE shall not make changes in its rates except by filing a Rate
Filing prescribed with the City Clerk at least ninety (90) days prior to the
proposed effective date of the requested change. Notice of the filing shall be
given by publication by placing a notice to the public of the proposed change
in a newspaper having general circulation in the CITY. However, notwithstanding
the above, instead of the publication of newspaper notice contemplated above,
FRANCHISEE may provide notice to the public by mailing such notice by United
States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of each directly affected
customer, or by including the notice in such customer's bill in a conspicuous
form. The notice must be in the following form:
   NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
The (name of the utility) proposes to increase your rates by (amount of total
annual increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase of
(percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year)
percent and is an increase in base rates of (percentage of increase over all
revenues during the applicable test year which are not subject to escalation
through some form of automatic adjustment clause) per cent. Further information
may be obtained from (name and address of utility official) or the application
on file with the Wood River City Clerk.
   An affidavit signed by an official of FRANCHISEE and describing the method
of publication of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
§ 10-907 PROVIDING OF GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The FRANCHISEE shall provide the CITY, at the request of CITY, on a regular
continuing basis, within thirty (30) days of publication, copies of documents,
information and data listed below for the FRANCHISEE or its parent company as
applicable.
   Annual Report to Stockholders
   Quarterly Report to Stockholders
   Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K, as the same may be changed
from time to time.
   Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q, as the same may be changed
from time to time.
   Prospectus for Debt Securities to be Issued.
   Prospectus for Equity Securities to be Issued.
   Distribution System Map of the CITY.
§ 10-908 VALIDITY OF ORDINANCE.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase of portion of this
Article shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
§ 10-909 NATURAL GAS RATE FILING; FILING FEE.
   The Municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from Natural Gas
Companies for a rate filing. The fee shall be three hundred dollars. (Ord. No.
324, 6/5/90)
ARTICLE 10. PENAL PROVISION
§ 10-1001 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL LIMITS
      
2.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
3.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
4.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
5.   PENAL PROVISION
[Editor's Note: Original Chapter 11, except for Sections 11-101 and 11-501, was
repealed by Ordinance Nos. 154, 155, 3/22/77.]
ARTICLE 1. MUNICIPAL LIMITS
§ 11-101 MUNICIPAL LIMITS; DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official Municipal Map, and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the Governing Body or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this Municipality, or having been by the
act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original townsite or as additions to
the Municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said Municipal
Limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Governing Body after
such addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of
this Municipality and the laws of the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 17-405 thru 17-
426, 17-1002, 17-1003 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 2. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 11-201 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Wood River, Nebraska, as
prepared by the Regional Planning Commission, has been adopted by resolution of
the City Council. Three (3) copies of the adopted Plan shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours. (Ord. No. 173, 8/8/78)
ARTICLE 3. ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 11-301 ZONING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the community,
and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and
other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and
other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the City of Wood River,
Nebraska, as prepared by the Regional Planning Commission and published in
pamphlet form, have heretofore been adopted by Ordinance No. 154, on April 5,
1977. Three (3) copies of the adopted Zoning Regulations shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours. (Ord. No. 173, 8/8/78) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 513,
9/2/08; 518, 10/20/09; 521, 7/20/10; 538, 3/17/15; 551, 5/2/17)
§ 11-302 ZONING REGULATIONS; ZONING MAP.
   The Geographic Information System based version of the City of Wood River
zoning map, attached to Ordinance 562 and incorporated by reference as if full
set forth herein, and approved by the Regional Planning Commission on January
8, 2020, is re-adopted as the official City of Wood River zoning map.
(Ord. 560, 12/18/18) (Amended by Ord. No. 562, 2/4/20)
ARTICLE 4. SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 11-401 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   To provide for harmonious development of the City and its environs; for the
integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned streets
or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open spaces for
traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of population and
traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions favorable to health,
safety, welfare, convenience, or prosperity; to insure conformance of
subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the City; and, to
secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and Governing Body, the Subdivision Regulations for the City of Wood
River, Nebraska, as prepared by the Regional Planning Commission and published
in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance No. 155, on April 5, 1977.
Three (3) copies of the adopted Subdivision Regulations shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours. (Ord. No. 173, 8/8/78)
ARTICLE 5. PENAL PROVISION
§ 11-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor, or as the agent, attorney, or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat, or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the Municipality, or
adjoining, and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who
shall sell, transfer, deed or convey, contract, or agree to sell, transfer, or
offer for sale any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of
three (3), or more parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining, and
contiguous thereto, without having first obtained the acceptance, and approval
of the plat, or map thereof by the Governing Body, and any person who shall
violate, or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the
provisions hereinbefore, as now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon
conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding fifty ($50.00) dollars for each
lot or part of lot sold, disposed of, leased, or offered for sale. (Ref. 17-426
RS Neb.)
 
