TOWN OF BROOKNEAL, VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed May 2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
   
§ 1.   [Designation and powers of town.]
   
§ 2.   [Administration and government of town; mayor and council.]
   
§ 3.   [Election of mayor and councilmembers.]
   
§ 4.   [Meetings of council.]
   
§ 5.   [Appointment of officers; creation of boards and departments.]
   
§ 6.   [Borrowing of money; issuance of revenue bonds.]
   
§ 7.   [Appointment of chief of police and other officers.]
   
§ 8.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 9.   [Additional powers of council.]
   
§ 10.   [Operation of waterworks.]
   
§ 11.   [Sewer services.]
   
§ 12.   [Acquisition of property; purposes.]
   
§ 13.   [Regulation of motor vehicles and traffic.]
   
§ 14.   [Exhibitions; license taxes.]
   
§ 15.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 16.   [Prohibition and removal of encroachments.]
   
§ 17.   [Regulation of electric light, telephone and telegraph services.]
   
§ 18.   [Police powers.]
   
§ 19.   Town manager.
   
§ 20.   Subdivisions.
   
§ 21.   [Real estate and personal property tax.]
   
§ 22.   [Business license taxes.]
   
§ 23.   [Motor vehicle, trailer and semitrailer license fees and taxes.]
   
§ 24.   [Ordinances to remain in full force and effect.]
   
§ 25.   [Powers conferred by state statutes.]
Editor’s note:
   Printed herein is Acts 1964, ch. 420, as adopted by the General Assembly,
and approved on March 31, 1964. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by
parenthetical history notes following amended provisions.
    The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains
unchanged from the original Charter.
   Editorial changes made by the previous codifier, the uniform system of
headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes and additions made for
clarity, indicated by brackets, have been retained.
An Act to provide a new Charter for the town of Brookneal, in the County of
Campbell, and to repeal Chapter 60, as amended, of the Acts of Assembly of
1908, approved February 20, 1908, which provided a Charter for the town of
Brookneal.
   1964 Acts of Assembly, Chapter 420
   Approved March 31, 1964
   Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:
§ 1.   [Designation and powers of town.]
   1.   The inhabitants of the territory embraced within the present limits of
the town of Brookneal, or as the same may be hereafter altered or established
by law, shall constitute, and continue a body politic and corporate, to be
known and designated as the town of Brookneal, and as such shall have and may
exercise all powers which are now, or may hereafter be, conferred upon or
delegated to towns under the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth of
Virginia as fully and as completely as though all such powers were specifically
enumerated herein.
Editor’s note:
   The current boundary description is found in the minutes of November 11,
1974, which is the date of the most recent annexation.
§ 2.   [Administration and government of town; mayor and council.]
   The administration and government of the town shall be vested in one
principal officer, denominated the mayor, and a council which shall consist of
six members, all of whom shall be residents and qualified voters of the town.
The council shall elect a vice-mayor from one of their number, who, in the
absence of the mayor, shall be responsible for and perform all duties of the
mayor. Each councilman may receive a salary for his services as such, the
amount thereof to be fixed by the council. The mayor may receive a salary for
his services, the amount to be fixed by the council. In either event no
increase in salary for the mayor or members of council shall take effect until
an election for such offices has been held and the mayor or councilmen so
elected take office. (Acts 1977, ch. 118, § 1)
§ 3.   [Election of mayor and councilmembers.]
   (a)   The mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the town at the
time of the November general election in 2002, and every two years thereafter.
The mayor shall take office on the first day of January, after his election. In
the event of the death, resignation, removal or disqualification of the mayor
for any reason or cause, the vice-mayor shall act as mayor for the remainder of
the term of office or until his successor shall be elected and qualified.
   (b)   Council members shall be elected by the qualified voters of the town
to four-year terms at the time of the November general election of every even-
numbered year in the manner herein provided. Three council members shall be
elected in the municipal election held in November 2002, and in municipal
elections held every four years thereafter. Three council members shall be
elected in the municipal election held in November 2004, and in municipal
elections held every four years thereafter. The members of the council shall
take office on the first day of January, after their election.
   (c)   In the event of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification of a
council member for any reason or cause, the council shall elect a person who is
a resident and a qualified voter of the town to fill the unexpired term of the
said council member.
(Acts 1970, ch. 221, § 1; Acts 1970, ch. 482, § 1; Acts 1973, ch. 46, § 1)
§ 4. [Meetings of council.]
   The council shall, by ordinance, fix the time for its regular meetings.
Special meetings shall be called by the clerk of the council upon the written
request of the mayor or any three councilmen [councilmembers]. At least twelve
hours’ notice shall be given to the other members of the council, of the
purpose, place and time of any such special meeting. Special meetings may also
be held at any time without notice, provided all members of the council are
present. No business shall be transacted at any such special meeting which is
not stated in the notice calling the same, unless all members of the council
attend the meeting or waive notice thereof. However, in case of an emergency,
which is certified to be an emergency by a quorum of the council, a special
meeting may be held to handle emergency matters.
§ 5.   [Appointment of officers; creation of boards and departments.]
   The council shall appoint a clerk and a treasurer [clerk-treasurer], and may
appoint a town attorney and such other officers and create such boards and
departments as it deems necessary or proper, and define their duties and
functions. Such officers so appointed shall hold office during the pleasure of
the council, shall give such bonds as the council requires, and shall receive
such compensation as the council prescribes. The same person may hold two or
more of such offices, in the discretion of the council.
§ 6.   [Borrowing of money; issuance of revenue bonds.]
   The council of the town shall be empowered to borrow such sum or sums of
money as may be requisite or necessary, subject to such limitations that are
now or may be imposed by the Constitution of and the Laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia. The council of the town shall be empowered to issue Revenue Bonds
as may be requisite or necessary, in the manner prescribed by law.
§ 7.   [Appointment of chief of police and other officers.]
   The council shall appoint a sergeant or a Chief of Police, as determined and
designated in the sole judgment of the council, and such other officers as may
be requisite who shall qualify as provided by law, and give bond in such amount
as the council requires. Those appointed shall be conservators of the peace,
and shall have the same powers and perform the same duties within the corporate
limits of the town and to a distance of one mile beyond the same. They shall
perform such other duties and receive such compensation as the council
prescribes, and shall hold office during the pleasure of the council.
(Acts 1977, ch. 118, § 1)
§ 8.   [Reserved.]
Editor’s note:
   Section 8 of the town charter, as amended by Acts 1970, ch. 221, and Acts
1970, ch. 482, was repealed by Acts 1977, ch. 118.
§ 9.   [Additional powers of council.]
   In addition to, and supplementary of the powers conferred upon towns and
town councils by general law, the town of Brookneal and its council shall have
the powers set forth in the following sections of this Charter.
§ 10.   [Operation of waterworks.]
   The town is empowered to acquire, establish, enlarge, maintain and operate
such waterworks and systems as the council deems necessary for the purpose of
providing an adequate supply of water to consumers within the corporate limits
of the town and within such adjacent territory as the council deems it
expedient or proper to serve at such rates as the council prescribes, any or
all of which rates the council may alter at any time without notice.
   The council may discontinue serving water to any consumer who defaults in
payment for such service within the time prescribed by the council for the
payment thereof, for so long as such default continues.
§ 11.   [Sewer services.]
   The town is empowered to establish, construct, enlarge and maintain such
sanitary sewer lines and sewerage disposal systems as the council deems
necessary or expedient, and when the health or development of an area demands,
after a public hearing and ordinance duly enacted, require owners or occupiers
of real estate within the corporate limits of the town, which fronts or abuts
on any such sewer line, to make connection with and use the same; and shall
have power to assess and collect reasonable fees and rates for making sewer
connections and for sewer services, the reasonableness of which the council
shall be the sole judges. Sewer service may be discontinued for default in
payment for such service within the time prescribed by the council for payment
thereof, for so long as such default continues.
§ 12.   [Acquisition of property; purposes.]
   The town is empowered to acquire by purchase, condemnation or otherwise
property, real or personal, either within or without its corporate limits, as
the council deems necessary for the purpose of establishing, enlarging,
maintaining, or operating its water system, sewer system, and for streets,
sidewalks, roads, rights-of-way and recreational purposes.
§ 13.   [Regulation of motor vehicles and traffic.]
   Insofar as not expressly prohibited by general law, the town is empowered[:]
   (a)   to control and regulate the operation upon its streets and alleys, of
motor vehicles carrying passengers or freight for hire, and to require the
owners or operators of such carriers to provide and maintain within the town,
suitable terminals for the convenient loading and unloading of passengers and
freight;
   (b)   to regulate the fares to be charged by operators of taxicabs or other
motor vehicles operating from established stands within the town, for carrying
passengers within its corporate limits, and to require that the drivers of such
vehicles be of such moral character as meets with the approval of the council;
and,
   (c)   to prescribe rules and regulations with respect to motor traffic of
all kinds, within the town, and the parking of motor vehicles on its streets
and alleys.
§ 14.   [Exhibitions; license taxes.]
   The town is empowered[:]
   (a)   to regulate the holding of shows, carnivals, fairs and other similar
public exhibitions, or to prohibit the holding of same, or any of them, within
its corporate limits or within one mile thereof; [and]
   (b)   except as prohibited by general law, to impose and collect a license
tax for the privilege of doing within the town anything upon which the State
imposes a license tax[,] provided that the town may, unless expressly
prohibited by general law, impose a higher license tax on any such thing, than
that imposed by the State on the same thing, the amount of the license tax
imposed by the town to be, in each instance, in the discretion of the council.
§ 15. [Reserved.]
Editor’s note:
   Section 15 of the town charter was repealed by Acts 1977, ch. 118.
§ 16.   [Prohibition and removal of encroach- ments.]
   The town is empowered to prohibit encroachments upon the streets or alleys,
or upon parks or other public places of the town by any fence, building, porch,
or other projection, and to require the removal of any such encroachment
heretofore or hereafter made unless made with the consent and approval of the
council, and to punish for any such encroachment hereafter made without such
consent first obtained; and any such encroachment made without such consent
shall be deemed a nuisance, of which the town may compel the abatement and
removal by and through appropriate court action or proceeding, against which
right of the town, no statute of limitation shall run.
§ 17.   [Regulation of electric light, telephone and telegraph services.]
   The town is empowered to permit and regulate, or to prohibit, the erection
of poles and wires for electric telegraph or telephone service or the laying of
any kinds of pipes in the streets or alleys of the town, and to prescribe,
assess and collect annual or other periodical charges for the doing of any such
things under permits hereafter granted; and the power to require the owners or
operators of any such electric light, telephone or telegraph lines to change
the location of any of their poles whenever the council deems any such change
expedient; and to require all wires or cables carrying electric current,
whether heretofore or hereafter installed to be placed in suitable conduits,
underground, in the discretion of the council; provided that none of the powers
above enumerated shall be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the
provisions of any franchise granted by the town.
§ 18.   [Police powers.]
   The town is empowered to exercise all such police powers as the council
deems reasonably necessary for the promotion and protection of the health,
morals, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town, for the
protection of the property of the town and its inhabitants, for the
preservation of peace and good order, and for the general welfare; and the
council is empowered to make ordinances and bylaws for the purpose of carrying
into effect the enumerated powers conferred upon the town by this Charter,
including police powers, and to prescribe punishments for violations thereof,
provided that no such punishment shall exceed the maximum punishment prescribed
by general law for a misdemeanor, and provided further, that all ordinances,
bylaws and resolutions made and adopted by the council shall become effective
thirty days after their passage, unless a different date is specified in any
such ordinance, bylaws or resolution, upon which the same shall become
effective.
§ 19.   Town manager.
   (a)    The council may appoint a town manager who shall be the chief
administrative officer of the town and shall be chosen solely on the basis of
his executive and administrative qualifications, and shall have some knowledge
of civil, mechanical, and electrical engineering. He need not, when appointed,
be a resident of the State of Virginia, but shall during his term of office,
reside in the State of Virginia, and shall be appointed for such term as he and
the council agree upon, not to exceed two years, but in any event, to end with
the term of the council making the appointment. The town manager may be
suspended or removed by the council for any cause it deems sufficient, provided
that no order of suspension or removal shall be made until after he shall have
been given at least five days notice in writing, stating the cause for such
suspension or removal and fixing a day when he may be heard thereon. The action
of the council, suspending or removing the town manager, shall be final. The
council may place the control and supervision of the police force of the town
under either the mayor or the town manager.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the town manager may,
with the consent of the council, appoint or employ and remove or discharge,
such officers, employees and assistants as he deems necessary to carry on the
work of such departments of the town as are committed to him by the council, in
all their respective details, in an economical and satisfactory manner. The
salary or compensation, and the terms of office or employment of such officers,
employees and assistants shall be fixed by the town manager, subject to
approval by the council; and his actions in all respects shall be subject to
review by the council, and he shall be accountable to the council only.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Residence of officers, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-1505, 15.2-1525, 15.2-1526
§ 20.   Subdivisions.
   The council may provide by ordinance that no plat of any subdivision within
the corporate limits of the town or within one mile thereof shall be recorded
in the Clerk’s Office of Campbell County unless and until it shall have been
approved by the council, and the council shall not approve any plat of any such
subdivision unless the streets, alleys or other roadways provided for therein
conform to the subdivision control ordinance of said town or any amendment
thereto.
§ 21.   [Real estate and personal property tax.]
   The council may annually levy a real estate and personal property tax on the
property located within the corporate limits of said town and may appoint
annually an assessor to assess the real estate and personal property within
said town and said assessor may impose a greater or less valuation than that
made by the State or county. If no assessor is appointed, the assessment made
by the commissioner of revenue of the county of Campbell may be used to
determine the value of real estate and personal property located within the
corporate limits of said town.
§ 22.   [Business license taxes.]
   The council shall have the authority, unless prohibited by general law, to
impose a specific license tax upon all professions, businesses and callings
conducted in any way within the corporate limits; to prescribe all pursuits
which may not be followed within the corporate limits without a license as a
requisite to doing business and to fix the terms upon which the licenses shall
issue.
§ 23.   [Motor vehicle, trailer and semitrailer license fees and taxes.]
   The council may levy and assess taxes and charge license fees upon motor
vehicles, trailers and semitrailers, located within the corporate limits of
said town; the amount of the license fee or tax shall not be greater than that
imposed by the State on vehicles of like class.
§ 24.   [Ordinances to remain in full force and effect.]
   All ordinances now in force in the town of Brookneal not inconsistent with
this Charter, shall be and remain in full force and effect until altered,
amended or repealed by the council of the town after the effective date of this
act.
§ 25.   [Powers conferred by state statutes.]
   The powers set forth in Code of Virginia, §§ 15.1-837–15.1-907 as in force
on July 1, 1964 are hereby conferred on and vested in the town of Brookneal.
   2.   Chapter 60, as amended, of the Acts of Assembly of 1908, approved
February 20, 1908, is repealed.
   3.   An emergency exists and this act is in force from its passage.
Editor’s Note:
   VA Code §§ 15.1-837 - 15.1-907 have been repealed and replaced with VA Code
§§ 15.2-1100 - 15.2-1132
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.13   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.16   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.17   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.18   Historical notes; editor’s notes and references
   
10.19   Supplementation of code
   
10.20   Liability of corporations, unincorporated associations or organizations
and agents for violations
   
10.21   Original jurisdiction of offenses against code
   
10.22   Collection of fines and fees
   
10.23   Procedure on default in deferred payment or installment payment of
fine, costs, forfeiture, restitution or penalty
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code,” for which
designation “code of ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “
§ 10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD. The County Board of Supervisors.
      BOND. When a BOND is required, an undertaking in writing with such
surety, if any, as the Council may direct, shall be sufficient.
      CHARTER. The CHARTER of the town, as it now exists or as it may be
amended in the future.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This CODE as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL.  The Council of the Town of Brookneal, Virginia.
      COUNTY.  The County of Campbell in the State of Virginia.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The County Director of Public Health, or his or her
authorized representative.
      IN THE TOWN.  Any territory, jurisdiction of which for the exercise of
its regulatory power has been conferred on the town by public or private law.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The local government adopting this code of ordinances.
      LOCALITY. The area within the boundaries of the locality as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term LOCALITY when used in this code may also be used to refer
to the governing body of the locality and its authorized representatives.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OCCUPANT OR TENANT. Applied to a building or land, any person who holds a
written or oral lease of or actually occupies the whole or a part of the
building or land, either alone or with others.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this local government unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever particular hours are specified in this
code relating to the time within which any act shall or shall not be performed
by any person, the time applicable shall be Eastern Standard Time or Eastern
Daylight Saving Time, whichever may be in current use in the town.
      OR, AND. The term OR may be read AND, and the term AND may be read OR, if
the sense requires it.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real, personal, both tangible and intangible, or mixed
PROPERTY.
      PUBLIC GROUNDS. The parks and all public lands owned by the town, and
those parts of public places which do not form travelled parts of streets as
defined in this section.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline, or the lateral
line of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write,
his or her name being written near it and being witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Virginia.
      STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares
in the town, and shall mean the entire width thereof between the abutting
property lines. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or footpath, unless
the contrary is expressed or unless the construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Brookneal, Campbell County, Virginia.
      TOWN MANAGER. The person appointed by the Council to the office of town
manager or acting town manager, or his or her designee.
      VA CODE. The Code of Virginia, as now or hereafter amended.
      WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Any representation of words, letters or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see VA Code, §§ 1-210
   Sundays and holidays, see VA Code, § 1-210
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect upon adoption, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.13 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-ways,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.16 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the legislative body that, when adopting this
Code of Ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and
statutes adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to provisions of this code that impose
criminal or traffic penalties.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 1-220
   Traffic laws; authority to adopt by reference, see VA Code § 46.2-1313
§ 10.17 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the ordinances adopted by the Town Council included in this code shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(1997 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL NOTES; EDITOR’S NOTES AND REFERENCES.
   (A)   History notes.  The history notes appearing in parentheses after
sections in this code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely
intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
(1997 Code, § 1-6)
   (B)   Editor’s notes and references. The editor’s notes, Charter references,
cross-references and state law references in this code are not intended to have
any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this code.
(1997 Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.19 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the
supplement.
   (B)   In the preparation of a supplement to this code, all portions of the
code which have been replaced shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive
changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement,
insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For
example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers; and
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections ___ to ___” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code).
(1997 Code, § 1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to supplement code, see VA Code, § 15.2-1433
§ 10.20 LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS, UNINCORPORATED ASSOCIATIONS OR ORGANIZATIONS
AND AGENTS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this code or other ordinance of the town by any officer,
agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or
unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of
his or her office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a
violation of the corporation, association or organization.
(1997 Code, § 1-12)
§ 10.21 ORIGINAL JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AGAINST CODE.
   Exclusive original jurisdiction for the trial of all offenses against the
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the town shall reside in the
appropriate general district court, or appropriate juvenile and domestic
relations district court.
(1997 Code, § 1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of general district court, see VA Code, § 16.1-123.1
§ 10.22 COLLECTION OF FINES AND FEES.
   (A)   Generally.  The appropriate general district court or the appropriate
juvenile and domestic relations district court shall collect all fines and fees
imposed or required to be paid in connection with the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance of the town and pay the fines and
fees to the Clerk of the Circuit Court who shall pay monthly into the treasury
of the town.
(1997 Code, § 1-14)
Statutory reference:
   Fees and fines, see VA Code, § 16.1-69.48
   (B)   By execution. Fines and fees, the collection of which is required
under division (A) above, may be collected by execution issued by the general
district court directed to the Chief of Police and returnable within 30 days
before the general district court. The officer levying the execution shall sell
the property levied upon at auction, for cash, at the front door of the
courthouse of the county, after 10 days’ notice of the time and place of the
sale, which notice shall be posted at the front door of the courthouse of the
county. This section shall not be construed to interfere with the other
remedies of the town in collecting fines and fees.
(1997 Code, § 1-15)
Statutory reference:
   How fines recovered, see VA Code, § 19.2-340
§ 10.23 PROCEDURE ON DEFAULT IN DEFERRED PAYMENT OR INSTALLMENT PAYMENT OF
FINE, COSTS, FORFEITURE, RESTITUTION OR PENALTY.
   (A)   When an individual obligated to pay a fine, costs, forfeiture,
restitution or penalty defaults in the payment or any installment payment, the
court, upon the motion of the attorney for the town or for the commonwealth, or
upon its own motion, may require him or her to show cause why he or she should
not be confined in jail or fined for nonpayment. A show cause proceeding shall
not be required prior to issuance of a capias if an order to appear on a date
certain in the event of nonpayment was issued pursuant to VA Code, § 19.2-354
(A) and the defendant failed to appear.
   (B)   Following the order to show cause or following a capias issued for a
defendant’s failure to comply with a court order to appear issued pursuant to
VA Code, § 19.2-354(A), unless the defendant shows that his or her default was
not attributable to an intentional refusal to obey the sentence of the court,
or not attributable to a failure on his or her part to make a good-faith effort
to obtain the necessary funds for payment, or unless the defendant shows that
any failure to appear was not attributable to an intentional refusal to obey
the order of the court, the court may order the defendant confined as for a
contempt, for a term not to exceed 60 days, or impose a fine not to exceed
$500. The court may provide in its order that payment or satisfaction of the
amounts in default at any time will entitle the defendant to his or her release
from the confinement or, after entering the order, may at any time reduce the
sentence for good cause shown, including payment or satisfaction of the
amounts.
   (C)   If it appears that the default is excusable under the standards set
forth in division (B) of this section, the court may enter an order allowing
the defendant additional time for payment, reducing the amount due or of each
installment, or remitting the unpaid portion in whole or in part.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to alter or interfere with the
collection of fines by any means authorized for the enforcement of money
judgments rendered in favor of the town.
(1997 Code, § 1-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 19.2-358
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the locality for which another penalty is not specifically
provided, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and
punished as set forth in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the locality or any
rule or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the locality, under
authority duly vested in such officer or agency, it is provided that a
violation of any provision thereof shall constitute a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4
misdemeanor, the violation shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $2,500, and by
confinement in jail for not more than 12 months, either or both;
      (2)   Class 2 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $1,000, and by
confinement in jail for not more than 6 months, either or both;
      (3)   Class 3 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $500; and
       (4)   Class 4 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $250.
   (C)   The imposition of any penalty, pursuant to this or any other provision
of this code, shall not prohibit the locality from seeking equitable relief in
any court of competent jurisdiction, to enjoin the violation of any provision
of this code or other ordinance of the locality.
   (D)   Each day any violation of this code or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation referred to in this section shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense, except where otherwise provided.
   (E)   The penalties imposed under this section shall not exceed those
penalties prescribed by state law for like offenses.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for misdemeanors, see VA Code, § 18.2-11
   Penalties for violation of ordinances, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-1429; 15.2-1432 
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
Generally
   
30.01   Title of Council
   
30.02   Composition of Council; terms of members
   
30.03   Council Member vacancy; appointment of new member
   
30.04   Regular meetings
   
30.05   Special meetings
   
30.06   Quorum; adjournment in absence
   
30.07   Standing committees
Meetings
   
30.15   Open door policy
   
30.16   Annual meetings
   
30.17   Public hearings
   
30.18   Adjourned meetings
   
30.19   Place and time
   
30.20   Attendance
   
30.21   Public notice
Business
   
30.35   Agenda
   
30.36   Actions by the Council
   
30.37   Voting
Organization; Rules of Procedure
   
30.45   Purpose
   
30.46   Rules of procedure established
   
30.47   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.48   Suspension and amendment of procedural rules
Order and Decorum
   
30.60   Lawful order
   
30.61   Oaths
   
30.62   Addressing the Chair
   
30.63   Addressing the Council
   
30.64   Offensive language or gestures
   
30.65   Point of order
   
30.66   Appeal to the Council on a point of order
   
30.67   Debate
   
30.68   Question under debate
   
30.69   Citizen participation
   
30.70   Committees
Charter reference:
   Administration, see
§ 2 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal ordinances generally, see VA Code, § 15.2-1427
   Oath of local officers, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-1522, 49-1
   Photographing, recording and the like of records, see VA Code, § 15.2-1412
   State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, see VA Code, §§ 2.2-
3100 - 2.2-3131
   Virginia Freedom of Information Act, see VA Code, §§ 2.2-3700 - 3714
   Virginia Public Procurement Act, see VA Code, §§ 2.2-4300 - 2.2-4377
   Virginia Public Records Act, see VA Code, §§ 42.1-76 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 30.01 TITLE OF COUNCIL.
   The official title of the Council is the “Brookneal Town Council.”
(1997 Code, § 2-74)
§ 30.02 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL; TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The Council will consist of 6 Council Members elected at large by the
qualified voters of the town. The Mayor will serve a term of 2 years, and the
Council will serve a term of 4 years with 3 Council Members elected every 2
years. Terms of office for the Mayor and Council Members will run concurrently
with the town’s fiscal year.
(1997 Code, § 2-75)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions,
§ 3(b)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEMBER VACANCY; APPOINTMENT OF NEW MEMBER.
   In the event of death, resignation, removal or disqualification of a Council
Member for any reason or cause, the remaining Council will elect a qualified
individual to fill the unexpired term.
(1997 Code, § 2-76)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions,
§ 3(c)
§ 30.04 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at 7:00 p.m., unless the Council shall direct that the meeting shall
be held at some other hour. When any regular meeting falls on a legal holiday,
the regular meeting shall then be held upon the next day at the same hour, or
as advertised.
(1997 Code, § 2-31)
Charter reference:
   Regular meetings of Council,
§ 4
§ 30.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Council may be convened at any time upon the call of the Clerk/Treasurer
at the instance of the Mayor or any 3 Council Members, in writing. A minimum of
12 hours’ notice will be given to the other members of the Council of the
purpose, place and time of any special meeting. Special meetings may also be
held at any time without notice, provided that all members of the Council are
present. No business will be transacted at any special meeting which is not
stated in the notice calling the special meeting, unless all members of the
Council attend the meeting or waive notice of the meeting. However, in the case
of an emergency by a quorum of the Council, a special meeting may be held to
handle emergency matters.
(1997 Code, § 2-32)
Charter reference:
   Special meetings of Council,
§ 4
§ 30.06 QUORUM; ADJOURNMENT IN ABSENCE.
   If a quorum of the Council fail to attend within ½ hour after the appointed
time of the meeting, those present may adjourn to such time as they may deem
proper, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall enter the names of those present and
those absent in the journal. At any meeting, a majority of the elected Council
Members or the Mayor and 3 Council Members will constitute a quorum for
transacting business. The temporary absence from the meeting room of members
sufficient to constitute a quorum will not be deemed to prevent the Council
from hearing presentations or discussing matters submitted to the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-33)
§ 30.07 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, at the first regular meeting of the Council after the
new Council Members chosen at any election shall qualify, appoint any standing
committees as are deemed necessary.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each of the committees referred to in division
(A) of this section to exercise general supervision of those matters and things
which belong to, affect or pertain to its department of the public affairs, and
to report thereon to the Council whenever a report is called for by the Mayor
or Council. Each committee shall have the authority, with the approval of the
Mayor, to cause repairs to be made and evils to be remedied affecting those
things belonging to its department, where the repairs or remedies are too
urgent to be delayed.
(1997 Code, § 2-34)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 OPEN DOOR POLICY.
   Council meetings will be open to the public in order to provide free entry
into meetings wherein the business of the people is being conducted. The
Council may, for the purposes identified and provided for in the Virginia
Freedom of Information Act (VA Code, §§ 2.2-3700 et seq.) and upon motion made
and duly adopted, meet in executive or closed meetings. These purposes are
provided in VA Code, § 2.2-3711.
(1997 Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.16 ANNUAL MEETINGS.
   The first meeting held after the newly elected members of the Council have
qualified and the first meeting held of each succeeding year will be known as
the annual meeting. At this annual meeting, the Council will establish the
days, times and places for the regular meeting of the Council for the ensuing
12 months.
(1997 Code, § 2-102)
Charter reference:
   Meetings of Council, see
§ 4
§ 30.17 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Public hearings will be held after proper public notice has been given. This
notice shall specify the time and place of the hearing at which persons
affected may appear and present their views.
(1997 Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of planning matters, see VA Code, § 15.2-2204
§ 30.18 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any regular or special meeting of the Council may be adjourned, upon motion
made and duly adopted, by the Council to a date and time prior to the next
regular meeting.
(1997 Code, § 2-104)
§ 30.19 PLACE AND TIME.
   The Council will assemble for regular meetings at the Town Hall, at a town-
owned office building or at such other public place in the town prescribed by
the Council. If the Council subsequently finds it necessary to hold a regular
meeting at a public place or at a time different from that initially
established, the Council must by resolution set the new place or time and give
public notice. The place and time for special meetings must be designated in a
written request for the meetings.
(1997 Code, § 2-105)
§ 30.20 ATTENDANCE.
   Members of Council unable to attend any scheduled meeting of the Council
will notify either the Town Manager or the Mayor prior to the meeting. After
the name of any member of the Council has been recorded as present at any
meeting, he or she will not absent himself or herself previous to adjournment,
unless by consent of the presiding officer.
(1997 Code, § 2-106)
§ 30.21 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   The Town Manager will notify the general news media of the time and place of
any meeting of the Council and, insofar as practical, will indicate the nature
of business to be conducted at the meetings.
(1997 Code, § 2-107)
BUSINESS
§ 30.35 AGENDA.
   It will be the duty of the Mayor and Town Manager to prepare the agenda
(order of business). An agenda and supporting information and documentation
will be distributed to members of Council 4 days before regular meetings of the
Council. During the meetings, the Mayor will establish the order of business to
be discussed, taking into account the need for staff, public interest and other
presentations, in order to maximize convenience to the public and minimize the
adverse impact on the order of business, insofar as it is practical. Any member
of the Council having matters he or she desires for inclusion on the agenda
will submit them to the Mayor or Town Manager 5 days prior to the regular
meeting of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-126)
§ 30.36 ACTIONS BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Unanimous consent.  Where no formal action is required and no
objection is heard, a request made from a member of Council will be deemed a
request from the Council without further action, when the request is made at a
meeting with a quorum present, and the presiding officer states that the
request will be deemed a request of the Council.
   (B)   Motions. Where actions of the Council are required or deemed required
by any member of the Council on a matter simply stated, action may be taken by
oral motion only. Motions need not be seconded. The presiding officer may make
a motion without leaving the chair. If desired by the presiding officer, the
Clerk/Treasurer or the member making a motion, the motion will be reduced to
writing and submitted to the Clerk/Treasurer for entry into the Council’s
minutes of the meeting.
   (C)   Resolutions. The Council may take action in the form of a resolution
for letting contracts, ordering administrative actions or determining short-
term or temporary policies, expressing the intent of the Council.
   (D)   Ordinances. Where required by law, action by the Council will be by
the adoption of ordinances. Ordinances will be used to establish long-term
policies, effect authoritative measures and enact town codes under the
authority granted to the town by state law.
   (E)   Contracts and sealed bids.  Where action by the Council may require
contracts or sealed bids, contracts and sealed bids will be proposed in writing
to the Town Manager and will be reviewed by the Town Manager and/or Town
Attorney for advisement prior to the proposing of adoption by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-127)
§ 30.37 VOTING.
   (A)   Discussion and debate.  Members of the Council may discuss or debate
items on the agenda where no formal vote or action of the Council is deemed
necessary or required.
   (B)   Question. A vote will be taken if the question is called by a Council
Member. A call for the vote need not be seconded.
   (C)   Voting. All questions submitted to the Council for a decision will be
determined by a voice vote of a majority of the Council Members voting on the
question, unless provided by law.
   (D)   Recording of vote. The name of each member of the Council and how he
or she voted will be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The vote of each
member of the Council will be recorded on each question as a “yes,” “no,”
“abstention” or “not present” vote.
   (E)   Tie vote.  In the event of a tie vote on any question, even though all
members may not be present, the question will be voted on by the Mayor in order
to cast the deciding vote. This is the only instance in which the Mayor will
have a voting privilege on any question before the Council.
   (F)   Reconsideration.  
      (1)   (a)   Any action may be reconsidered only upon a motion by a member
of the Council voting with the prevailing side on the original vote, which
motion will be made in the same meeting, or the immediately subsequent regular
meeting.
         (b)   Action on a question pending reconsideration will be taken only
following notice of not less than that required by law and at least equal to
that given prior to the action being reconsidered, unless the action is taken
at the same meeting as the original action.
      (2)   In instances involving the reconsideration of the adoption of an
ordinance, notice of the proposed adoption of a new ordinance will be given in
accordance with law prior to action in the reconsidered question.
(1997 Code, § 2-128)
ORGANIZATION; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this division is to enable the Council to facilitate the
execution of its powers and duties in accordance with the Charter for the town
and the provisions of VA Code, Title 15.2, as amended.
(1997 Code, § 2-51)
§ 30.46 RULES OF PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED.
   The rules of procedure established in this division will govern meetings of
the Council, insofar as it does not conflict with Charter provisions or state
law.
(1997 Code, § 2-71)
§ 30.47 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Unless otherwise stated in this subchapter, meetings of the Council will be
governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, 10th Edition, insofar as it
does not conflict with the Charter or state law.
(1997 Code, § 2-72)
§ 30.48 SUSPENSION AND AMENDMENT OF PROCEDURAL RULES.
   The rules of procedure may be suspended, in part or whole, or amended, in
part or whole, upon a motion made and duly adopted by a majority vote of the
Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-73)
ORDER AND DECORUM
§ 30.60 LAWFUL ORDER.
   At meetings of the Council, the presiding officer will preserve order and
decorum and may require the Chief of Police or, at his or her option, 1 of his
or her police officers to attend meetings of the Council to preserve order.
(1997 Code, § 2-146)
§ 30.61 OATHS.
   The presiding officer will have the power to administer an oath to any
person concerning any matter submitted to the Council or connected with its
powers and duties.
(1997 Code, § 2-147)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Council to administer oaths, see VA Code, § 15.2-1409
§ 30.62 ADDRESSING THE CHAIR.
   When any person, including a Council Member, speaks to the Council, he or
she will address the Chair and will confine himself or herself strictly to the
question before the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-148)
§ 30.63 ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL.
   No person in attendance at a meeting of the Council will be permitted to
address the Council while members of the Council are considering the question
on any motion, resolution or ordinance preliminary to a vote on the same,
except at the discretion of the Chair.
(1997 Code, § 2-149)
§ 30.64 OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE OR GESTURES.
   No member of the Council will use any language or gesture calculated to
offend or insult another member of the Council. No discussion of a sectarian or
partisan character will be allowed at meetings of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-150)
§ 30.65 POINT OF ORDER.
   At the Council meetings, the presiding officer may give his or her reasons
for any decision made by him or her on any point of order, and the decision
will be made without debate.
(1997 Code, § 2-151)
Editor’s note:
   Similar provisions, see Robert’s Rules, pp. 214, 215.
§ 30.66 APPEAL TO THE COUNCIL ON A POINT OF ORDER.
   Any member of the Council may appeal, by motion, to the Council from the
decision of the presiding officer on any question of order. A majority vote of
those present is necessary to overrule the presiding officer.
(1997 Code, § 2-152)
§ 30.67 DEBATE.
   In any debate before the Council, no member of the Council will speak more
than once on the same question until all members of the Council have spoken who
desire to do so, nor shall any member speak more than twice on the same
question, unless agreed to by the consent of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-153)
Editor’s note:
   Similar provisions, see Robert’s Rules, pp. 23-26.
§ 30.68 QUESTION UNDER DEBATE.
   When a question is under debate at a meeting of the Council, no motion will
be received except for a motion to amend, to commit, to table, to call for the
question, to offer a substitute motion on the previous question or to adjourn.
(1997 Code, § 2-154)
Editor’s note:
   Similar provisions, see Robert’s Rules,
§ 30.69 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Requests to appear before the Council. Any town resident (individual,
firm, corporation, association or business) desiring to appear before the
Council to request the Council’s action on any matter will make the request to
the Mayor or Town Manager or his or her designee; provided, however, that no
request will be required in order to speak to the Council.
   (B)   Speakers. Speakers wishing to address the Council will state their
name and address and will be subject to the time limitation as the presiding
officer may allot unless the Council, by majority consent, will extend that
time.
   (C)   Council Members’ participation. Members of the Council will present
their comments, insofar as possible, at the end of a presentation to avoid
interrupting the speaker and duplicating matters the speaker may present.
   (D)   Cumulative or repetitive presentations or testimony. The presiding
officer will limit presentations or testimony, insofar as practical, to avoid
cumulation or repetition of any matter. Persons of the same position as a
previous speaker may state their names and the positions with which they agree.
(1997 Code, § 2-155)
§ 30.70 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Council committees. The Mayor may, at the annual meeting of the
Council, appoint Council Members to Council committees as he or she may deem
proper or necessary. The Mayor may charge these Council committees with certain
responsibilities to study and to recommend on those matters and things which
belong to, affect or pertain to the effectiveness or efficiency of departments,
projects, programs or services of the town. The Mayor or the Council may call
for a report from the Council committees to the Council.
   (B)   Citizen advisory committees. The Mayor may, at a regular meeting of
the Council, establish such citizen advisory committees as he or she may deem
proper or necessary. The Mayor may charge these citizen advisory committees
with planning, implementing and evaluating community involvement, public
affairs or community improvement programs. The Mayor and Council Members may
recommend or call for the recommendation of town residents or taxpayers for the
citizen advisory committees. The Mayor or the Council may call for a report
from these citizen advisory committees to the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-156)
Cross-reference:
   Standing committees, see
§ 30.07
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Official safety program; composition
Mayor; Vice-Mayor
   
31.015   Mayor; presiding officer of the Council
   
31.016   Mayor’s powers and duties generally
   
31.017   Vice-Mayor; election, duties
   
31.018   Temporary president
   
31.019   Mayor’s vacancy
Town Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.030   Establishment of office
   
31.031   Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.032   Bond
   
31.033   Receipt and deposit of taxes, assessments, revenues and other funds
   
31.034   Right of distress, levy, attachment and all other remedies
   
31.035   Attendance at Council meetings
   
31.036   Journal of Council proceedings; attestation and publication of
ordinances, papers
Town Attorney
   
31.045   Establishment of position; appointment
   
31.046   Powers and duties
   
31.047   Counsel
Director of Public Works
   
31.060   Position established; appointment
   
31.061   Powers and duties
Chief of Police
   
31.075   Position established; appointment
   
31.076   Powers and duties
Town Manager
   
31.085   Appointment; duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 OFFICIAL SAFETY PROGRAM; COMPOSITION.
   For the purposes of participating in the benefits provided by the Line of
Duty Act (VA Code,§§ 9.1-40 - 9.1-405 et seq.), the Council does hereby
recognize that the town police officers, all members of the Town Volunteer Fire
Department, and all members of the Brookneal Rescue Squad, Inc. are integral
parts of the official safety program of the town.
(1997 Code, § 2-181)
Cross-reference:
   Public safety, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances
MAYOR; VICE-MAYOR
§ 31.015 MAYOR; PRESIDING OFFICER OF THE COUNCIL.
   The presiding officer of the Council will be the Mayor. The Mayor will
preside over all meetings, may represent the Council at official functions and
ceremonial events, and may make appointments which are not required by law to
be made by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor to preside over Council, see VA Code, § 15.2-1414.7
§ 31.016 MAYOR’S POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Mayor shall perform the duties prescribed in the Charter and shall
exercise general supervision of all the town’s rights, franchises, properties
and affairs, and shall perform duties and functions as he or she may be
directed to perform by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-202)
§ 31.017 VICE-MAYOR; ELECTION, DUTIES.
   A Vice-Mayor of the Council will be elected from its members at the first
meeting of each fiscal year and may be reelected. The Vice-Mayor shall function
as the Mayor in the event of the disability or absence of the Mayor, and shall
perform any further duties as may be required of him or her by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-203)
Charter reference:
   Vice-Mayor, see § 2
§ 31.018 TEMPORARY PRESIDENT.
   In the event of the absence of the Mayor and Vice-Mayor, the Council may
appoint a president pro tempore from the members remaining to preside over the
meeting.
(1997 Code, § 2-77)
Statutory reference:
   President pro tempore, see VA Code, § 15.1-827
§ 31.019 MAYOR’S VACANCY.
   In the event of death, resignation, removal or disqualification of the
Mayor, the Vice-Mayor will serve as Mayor for the remainder of the term of
office.
(1997 Code, § 2-78)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions, see
§ 3(a)
TOWN CLERK/TREASURER
§ 31.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby established the position of Town Clerk/Treasurer (hereafter
Clerk/Treasurer).
(1997 Code, § 2-221)
§ 31.031 CLERK/TREASURER.
   The Treasurer and Clerk of the Council will be combined as the same officer,
and he or she will perform his or her duties as prescribed by the Council from
time to time.
(1997 Code, § 2-79)
Charter reference:
   Clerk and Treasurer, see
§ 5
§ 31.032 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Clerk/Treasurer
shall execute a bond, the premium for which shall be paid by the town, with
surety approved by the Council with a minimum penalty of $20,000, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office for the proper
collection of and accounting for all moneys which shall come into his or her
hands, or which it shall be his or her duty to collect, and for the payment of
all moneys by him or her, on the proper order of the Council, to those entitled
to receive such payment.
(1997 Code, § 2-222)
§ 31.033 RECEIPT AND DEPOSIT OF TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, REVENUES AND OTHER FUNDS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall receive all taxes, license taxes, assessments and
other money, revenues and funds belonging to the town, and deposit the funds in
a bank as he or she may deem proper or as may be directed by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-223)
§ 31.034 RIGHT OF DISTRESS, LEVY, ATTACHMENT AND ALL OTHER REMEDIES.
   For the purpose of collecting taxes, license taxes, assessments and other
money, revenues and funds due the town, the Clerk/Treasurer shall have the
right of distress, levy, attachment and all other remedies provided by general
law.
(1997 Code, § 2-224)
§ 31.035 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall attend the meetings of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-225)
§ 31.036 JOURNAL OF COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS; ATTESTATION AND PUBLICATION OF
ORDINANCES, PAPERS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep an accurate journal of the proceedings of the
Council. He or she shall file and preserve all papers which may come into his
or her hand as Clerk/Treasurer, and shall attest and publish all ordinances or
other papers or proceedings required by the Council to be published.
(1997 Code, § 2-226)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.045 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established the position of Town Attorney, who shall be
appointed by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-246)
§ 31.046 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Attorney shall have the powers and perform duties as may be granted
to him or her, imposed upon him or her or required of him or her by the
Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-247)
§ 31.047 COUNSEL.
   The Town Attorney will serve as legal counsel to the Council, and he or she
will defend the Council or any member of the Council, and any officer,
employee, trustee or any member of any board or commission appointed by the
Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-80)
Charter reference:
   Town Attorney, see
§ 5
Statutory reference:
   Employment of counsel to defend town, see VA Code, § 15.2-1520
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.060 POSITION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established the position of Director of Public Works, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-266)
§ 31.061 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Director of Public Works shall have the powers and perform duties
as may be granted to him or her, imposed upon him or her or required by him or
her by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-267)
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 31.075 POSITION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established the position of Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 2-276)
Charter reference:
   Chief of Police or Town Sergeant, see
§ 7
§ 31.076 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police shall be a conservator of the peace, and shall have the
same powers and perform the same duties within the corporate limits of the town
and to a distance of 1 mile beyond the same. He or she shall perform such other
duties as the Council prescribes, including those specified in
§ 32.01.
(1997 Code, § 2-277)
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.085 APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Council will appoint a Town Manager, and he or she will perform those
duties set forth in the Charter and as prescribed by the Council from time to
time.
(1997 Code, § 2-81)
Charter reference:
   Town Manager, see
§ 19
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
32.01   Powers and duties of Chief of Police generally
   
32.02   Use of county jail
   
32.03   Working prisoners
Charter reference:
   Control and supervision of police force, see
§ 19
   Law enforcement, see
§ 7
   Police powers, see
§ 18
Cross-reference:
   Official safety program, see
§ 31.001
Statutory reference:
   Destruction of unclaimed weapons, see VA Code, § 15.2-1721
   Disposal of unclaimed property, see VA Code, § 15.2-1719
   Police and public order, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-1701 et seq.
   Powers of governor as to law enforcement agencies in localities, see VA
Code, § 18.2-410
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.01 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce, under the
supervision of the Town Manager, the Mayor and the Committee on Police and Law
Enforcement, the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the town. He
or she shall have such powers and duties as are vested in police officers under
the laws of the state.
(1997 Code, § 42-1)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see
§§ 31.075,
31.076
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police force, see VA Code, § 15.2-1704
§ 32.02 USE OF COUNTY JAIL.
   The county jail may be used as the town jail.
(1997 Code, § 42-2)
Statutory reference:
   When jail of county to be jail for town, see VA Code, § 53.1-73
§ 32.03 WORKING PRISONERS.
   Every person convicted for a violation of this code or other ordinance of
the town and given a jail sentence shall, if physically able, be employed
during the period of the jail sentence or confinement at such community service
or other labor as may be assigned to him or her by the courts. Any community
service shall be monitored by court agencies such as Piedmont Court Services.
In the discretion of the district court, he or she may be sentenced to the
county jail, subject to the Bureau of Correctional Field Units.
(1997 Code, § 42-3)
Statutory reference:
   Work forces, see VA Code, §§ 53.1-128 et seq.
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Execution of checks for disbursement of town funds
   
33.03   Local government employee bonuses
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on July 1 of each year and shall end
on the following June 30.
(1997 Code, § 2-286)
§ 33.02 EXECUTION OF CHECKS FOR DISBURSEMENT OF TOWN FUNDS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer is hereby authorized to sign checks for duly authorized
disbursements of town funds.
(1997 Code, § 2-287)
Charter reference:
   Authority of Council to borrow money and issue revenue bonds, see
§ 6
§ 33.03 LOCAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE BONUSES.
   Bonuses for employees of the Town of Brookneal. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of law, general or special, the governing body of the Town of
Brookneal may provide for payment of monetary bonuses to its officers and
employees. The payment of a bonus shall be authorized by this section.
(Ord. passed 1-12-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Local government employee bonuses, see VA Code, § 15.1-7.4
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
Property Taxes
   
34.001   Annual assessment; valuation of property
   
34.002   Tax rate
   
34.003   Tax tickets; bills for taxes
   
34.004   Due date; late penalty
   
34.005   Interest
Property Tax Exemption for Elderly Persons
   
34.015   Purpose
   
34.016   Definitions
   
34.017   Exemption of taxation on certain real estate; conditions
   
34.018   Filing of affidavit
   
34.029   Granting of exemption
Bank Franchise Tax
   
34.030   Definitions
   
34.031   Tax imposed
   
34.032   Filing of return and payment of tax
   
34.033   Penalty upon bank for failure to comply
Consumer Utility Tax
   
34.045   Definitions
   
34.046   Tax levied; rate
   
34.047   Collection of tax; duty of seller or service provider; reports by
seller/service provider
   
34.048   Collection of tax a duty of Clerk/Treasurer; disposition of revenue
   
34.049   Duty of seller to keep records; authority of town agents to inspect
and transcribe records
   
34.050   Exemptions
   
34.051   Certain telephone services exempted
Meals Tax
   
34.065   Definitions
   
34.066   Levy of tax
   
34.067   Collection of tax by seller
   
34.068   Exemptions; limits on application
   
34.069   Gratuities and service charges
   
34.070   Report of taxes collected; remittance; preservation of records
   
34.071   Interest and penalties for failure to file a report or make
remittances
   
34.072   Obligations upon going out of business
   
34.073   Civil warrant for collection of delinquent tax
   
34.074   Promulgation of subchapter regulations
Businesses
   
34.085   Authority
   
34.086   Definitions
   
34.087   License required
   
34.088   Tax imposed on privilege of doing business; applicability to persons
with no regularly established place of business within the town
   
34.089   Due date of tax
   
34.090   Penalty and interest for late payment
   
34.091   Separate license for each place of business; 1 license for different
types of business in same place
   
34.092   Personal privilege
   
34.093   Display or carrying
   
34.094   Application; information to be furnished by applicant
   
34.095   Calculation of gross receipts
   
34.096   Licensee’s records and reports generally
   
34.097   Investigation of licensee’s books and records
   
34.098   Responsibility for obtaining license; fraudulent failure to secure
   
34.099   Assessment of additional tax
   
34.100   Initial license
   
34.101   Transfer
   
34.102   Proration of tax
   
34.103   Compliance with zoning regulations prerequisite to issuance;
noncompliance as grounds for revocation
   
34.104   Obstructing sidewalks, streets or other public places; nuisance
   
34.105   Refunds
   
34.106   Businesses not enumerated but covered by state law
Tax Rates
   
34.120   Contractors
   
34.121   Merchants
   
34.122   Peddler defined; tax imposed
   
34.123   Itinerant vendor defined; tax imposed
   
34.124   Financial, real estate and professional services
   
34.125   Repair, personal, business or other services
   
34.126   Heat, light, power and gas companies; tax imposed
   
34.127   Telephone and telegraph companies; tax imposed
   
34.128   TV antenna cable service; tax imposed
   
34.129   Alcoholic beverages; taxes imposed
   
34.130   Coin-operated machine operators; taxes imposed
   
34.131   Circuses, carnivals, dog and pony shows or other similar shows
   
34.132   Solicitor
   
34.133   Warehouses for the sale of leaf tobacco; taxes imposed
Cigarette Tax
   
34.140   Definitions
   
34.141   Tax levied; amount
   
34.142   Preparation, sale, etc., of stamps; duties of treasurer generally
   
34.143   Inspection of records, premises, etc.
   
34.144   Seizure and disposition of untaxed cigarettes, etc.
   
34.145   Presumption based upon stamps or markings
   
34.146   Obligation of dealers and agents regarding stamps
   
34.147   Presumptions based on quantity
   
34.148   Disposition of revenue
   
34.149   Illegal acts
   
34.150   Violations and penalty
   
34.151   Each violation a separate offense
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see
§ 21
Statutory reference:
   Amount of municipal taxes and assessments to be collected, see VA Code, §
15.2-11-4
   Enforcement, collection, refunds, remedies and review of local taxes, see VA
Code, §§ 58.1-3900 et seq.
   Local bank franchise tax, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-1208 et seq.
   Local cigarette taxes authorized; use of dual die or stamp to evidence
payment, see VA Code, § 58.1-3830
   Local sales and use taxes, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-605 et seq.
   Local taxes generally, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-3000 et seq.
   Priority of taxes in distribution of assets of person or corporation, see VA
Code, §§ 58.1-6 et seq.
   Setoff Debt Collection Act, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-520 et seq.
   Taxation generally, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-1 et seq.
PROPERTY TAXES
§ 34.001 ANNUAL ASSESSMENT; VALUATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Council shall annually at its regular meeting in the month of
January in each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, not later than a
regular or called meeting in May, fix the tax rate on all real and personal
property for the current calendar year, property subject to taxation within and
by the town, and shall assess such taxes as may be required to provide for the
needs and purposes of the town.
   (B)   In determining the valuation of property in the town, reference shall
be had to the records of the County Commissioner of the Revenue.
(1997 Code, § 62-30)
§ 34.002 TAX RATE.
   The tax rate in the town shall be as established by the Council from time to
time.
(1997 Code, § 62-31)
§ 34.003 TAX TICKETS; BILLS FOR TAXES.
   As soon as practicable after taxes are assessed as provided in
§ 34.002, the Clerk/Treasurer shall make or cause to be made for each taxpayer
a tax ticket substantially in the form prescribed by the State Department of
Taxation, and shall send by mail to each taxpayer a bill for the taxes.
(1997 Code, § 62-32)
§ 34.004 DUE DATE; LATE PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided, all taxes shall be due and payable as soon as
the tax bills referred to in
§ 34.003 are sent. Any person failing to satisfy the tax bill on or before
December 5 following the mailing of the bill shall incur a penalty of 10% of
the total taxes due.
(1997 Code, § 62-33)
§ 34.005 INTEREST.
   Interest at the rate of 10% per annum shall be collected upon the principal
and penalty from July 1 of the year next after taxes are assessed under
§ 34.002.
(1997 Code, § 62-34)
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR ELDERLY PERSONS
§ 34.015 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with VA Code, §§ 58.1-3210 et seq., as amended, the Council
deems those elderly persons who fall within the provisions of this division to
be bearing an extraordinary tax burden on the real estate in relation to their
income and net worth.
(1997 Code, § 62-56)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for subchapter, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-3210 et seq.
§ 34.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. The real estate tax exemption affidavit.
   COMMISSIONER OF THE REVENUE. The County Commissioner of the Revenue, or any
of his or her duly authorized deputies or agents.
   DWELLING.  The full-time residence of the person claiming exemption.
   EXEMPTION.  EXEMPTION from the town real estate tax according to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE.  
      (1)   When applied to real estate, the appraised value and not the
assessed value, as shown on the records of the Commissioner of the Revenue; and
      (2)   When applied to personal property, the term means the actual value
as appraised by the Commissioner of the Revenue.
   PROPERTY. Real property.
   RELATIVE. Any relation by blood or marriage.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year, from January 1 until December 31, for which
exemption is claimed.
(1997 Code, § 62-57)
§ 34.017 EXEMPTION OF TAXATION ON CERTAIN REAL ESTATE; CONDITIONS.
   The dwelling owned by and occupied as the sole dwelling of any person not
less than 65 years of age shall be exempt from taxation, provided the head of
the household occupying the dwelling and owning the title or partial title
thereto is a resident of the county and is exempted, subject to the following
restrictions and conditions:
   (A)   The total combined income during the immediately preceding calendar
year from all sources of the owner of the dwelling living therein and of the
owner’s relatives living in the dwelling does not exceed $5,000, provided that
the first $1,500 of income of each relative, other than the spouse of the owner
who is living in the dwelling, shall not be included in the total;
   (B)   The net combined financial worth, including equitable interests, as of
December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year, of the owner and of the
spouse of any owner shall not exceed $20,000; and
   (C)   The fair market value of the dwelling and the land not exceeding 1
acre upon which the dwelling is situated, not to exceed $20,000, is excluded
from the combined financial worth determined in division (B) of this section.
(1997 Code, § 62-59)
§ 34.018 FILING OF AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   The person claiming the exemption shall file annually with the
Commissioner of the Revenue, on forms to be supplied by the Commissioner of the
Revenue, an affidavit setting forth the names of the related persons occupying
the real estate and that the total combined net worth, including equitable
interests and the combined income from all sources of the person as specified
in
§ 34.017, does not exceed the limits prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   This affidavit shall be filed after February 1 but before March 1 of
each calendar year.
   (C)   The Commissioner of the Revenue shall also make further inquiry of a
person seeking the exemption, requiring answers under oath as may be reasonably
necessary, to determine qualifications therefor as specified in this section.
The Commissioner of the Revenue may in addition require the production of
certified tax returns and any other records to establish the income or
financial worth of any applicant for tax relief.
(1997 Code, § 62-60)
§ 34.019 GRANTING OF EXEMPTION.
   (A)   An exemption may be granted for any year following the date that the
head of the household occupying the dwelling and owning title or partial title
thereto reaches the age of 65 years.
   (B)   If after an audit and investigation the Commissioner of the Revenue
determines that the person is qualified for exemption, the Commissioner shall
so certify the exemption, and shall determine the percentage of exemption
allowable and issue nonnegotiable exemption certificates in the amount of the
exemption determined to be applicable to the claimant’s real estate tax
liability. This exemption certificate shall apply only to the tax year for
which issued. The person to whom an exemption certificate has been issued
shall, on or before the past due date established for the payment of the real
estate tax, acknowledge that he or she is claiming credit under this exemption
certificate to the Clerk/Treasurer, together with the payment of the difference
between the exemption and the full amount of the tax payment then due on the
property for which the exemption was issued. The Clerk/Treasurer shall check
the claim against the list furnished him or her by the Commissioner, and if the
Commissioner’s report shows the issuance of the certificate, credit shall be
allowed. Any person not claiming credit on the taxes on or before the date
specified for payment shall not thereafter be entitled to the credit.
   (C)   Where the person claiming exemption conforms to the standards and does
not exceed the limitations contained in this division, the tax exemption shall
be as shown on a schedule established by the county.
   (D)   Changes in respect to income, financial worth, ownership of property
or other factors occurring during the taxable year for which the affidavit
mentioned in
§ 34.018 is filed and having the effect of exceeding or violating the
limitations and/or conditions provided in this section shall be promptly
reported to the Commissioner of the Revenue by the applicant, and shall nullify
any relief of real estate tax liability for the then-current taxable year and
the taxable year immediately following.
(1997 Code, § 62-61)
BANK FRANCHISE TAX
§ 34.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. As provided in VA Code, § 58.1-1201.
   NET CAPITAL. A bank’s net capital computed pursuant to VA Code, § 58.1-1205.
(1997 Code, § 62-86)
§ 34.031 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of VA Code, §§ 58.1-1200 et seq., there is
hereby imposed upon each bank located within the boundaries of this town a tax
on net capital equaling 80%of the state rate of franchise tax set forth in VA
Code, § 58.1-1204.
   (B)   If any bank located within the boundaries of this town also has
offices that are located outside the corporate limits of the town, the tax
shall be apportioned as provided by VA Code, § 58.1-1211.
(1997 Code, § 62-87)
Statutory reference:
   Bank franchise tax, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-1200 et seq.
   Town tax, see VA Code, § 58.1-1209
§ 34.032 FILING OF RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or after January 1 of each year, but not later than March 1 of any
such year, all banks whose principal offices are located within this town shall
prepare and file with the Commissioner of the Revenue a return as provided by
VA Code, § 58.1-1207, in duplicate, which shall set forth the tax on net
capital computed pursuant to VA Code, §§ 58.1-1200 et seq.  The Commissioner of
the Revenue shall certify a copy of the bank’s return and schedules and shall
forthwith transmit the certified copy to the State Department of Taxation.
   (B)   If the principal office of a bank is located outside the corporate
boundaries of this town and the bank has branch offices located within this
town, in addition to the filing requirements set forth in division (A) of this
section, any bank conducting the branch business shall file with the Clerk/
Treasurer a copy of the real estate deduction schedule, apportionment and other
items which are required by VA Code, §§ 58.1-1207, 58.1-1211 and 58.1-1212.
   (C)   Each bank, on or before June 1 of each year, shall pay into the Clerk/
Treasurer’s office of this town all taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 62-88)
Statutory reference:
   Filing of return and payment of tax, see
    VA Code, § 58.1-1207
§ 34.033 PENALTY UPON BANK FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any bank which fails to file a return or pay the tax required by this
subchapter or fails to comply with any other provision of this subchapter shall
be subject to a penalty of 5% of the tax due. If the Commissioner of the
Revenue is satisfied that the failure is due to providential or other good
cause, the return and payment of tax shall be accepted exclusive of the
penalty, but with interest determined in accordance with VA Code, § 58.1-15.
(1997 Code, § 62-89)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty upon bank for failure to comply with law, see VA Code, § 58.1-1216
CONSUMER UTILITY TAX
§ 34.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. Every person who, individually or through agents, employees,
officers, representatives or permittees, makes a taxable purchase in this
jurisdiction.
   KILOWATT-HOURS (KWH) DELIVERED.  Means 1,000 watts of electricity delivered
in a 1-hour period by an electric provider to an actual consumer, except that
in the case of eligible customer-generators (sometimes called cogenerators) as
defined in VA Code, § 56-594, it means kWh supplied from the electric grid to
the customer-generators, minus the kWh generated and fed back to the electric
grid by these customer-generators.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
combinations of individuals of whatever form and character.
   PURCHASER.  The consumer of every utility service as hereinafter defined.
   RESIDENTIAL CONSUMER. The owner or tenant of property used primarily for
residential purposes, including but not limited to apartment houses and other
multi-family dwellings.
   SELLER. Every person, whether a public service corporation or not, who sells
or furnishes a utility service.
   SERVICE PROVIDER.  The person who delivers electricity to a consumer.
   USED PRIMARILY. Relates to the larger portion of the use for which electric
utility service is furnished.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Electric light and power, telecommunications or gas
services, including without limitation those gas utilities coming within the
provisions of Chapter 26 of Title 58.1 of the VA Code furnished within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1997 Code, § 62-90) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
§ 34.046 TAX LEVIED; RATE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby imposed and levied by the town, upon each and
every purchaser of utility services within the town, a tax in the amount of
9.3% of the monthly gross charge to a consumer of local telecommunications
service, other than mobile local telecommunications service which shall be
taxed at the rate prescribed in division (B) of this section, and consumers of
electric light and power which will be taxed at the rate as prescribed in
division (C) of this section, or gas services, which taxes shall be collected
monthly by the seller of the services from the purchaser thereof.
      (2)   This tax shall not be applicable to any amount so charged in excess
of $15 per month for a residential, commercial business or industrial consumer.
      (3)   The tax levied under this section shall be applicable to charges
first appearing on bills rendered for service provided after July 1, 1998.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed and levied by the town upon each and every
purchaser of utility services within the town, a tax in the amount of 10% of
the monthly gross charge to a consumer of mobile local telecommunications, and
shall not be applicable to any amount so charged in excess of $30 per month for
each mobile service consumer. The tax levied under this division shall be
applicable to charges first appearing on bills rendered for service provided
after July 1, 1999.
   (C)   There is hereby imposed and levied a monthly tax on each purchase of
electricity delivered to consumers by a service provider, classified as
determined by the provider as follows:
      (1)   For residential consumers, the tax shall be $1.40 plus the rate of
$0.014815 on each kWh delivered monthly to residential consumers by a service
provider, not to exceed $3.00 monthly.
      (2)   Nonresidential consumers shall be at rates per month for classes of
nonresidential consumers as set forth below:
         (a)   Commercial consumers: The tax shall be $2.29 plus the rate of
$0.029583 on each kWh delivered monthly to commercial consumers, not to exceed
$3.00.
         (b)   Industrial consumers: The tax shall be $2.29 plus the rate of
$0.029583 on each kWh delivered monthly to industrial consumers, not to exceed
$3.00.
      (3)   The conversion of tax pursuant to this subchapter to monthly kWh
delivered shall not be effective before the first meter reading after December
31, 2000.
(1997 Code, § 62-90) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Consumer utility taxes, see VA Code, § 58.1-3812
§ 34.047 COLLECTION OF TAX; DUTY OF SELLER OR SERVICE PROVIDER; REPORTS BY
SELLER/SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller, in acting as the tax collecting
medium or agency for the town, to collect from the purchaser for the use of the
town the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting the purchase
price charged therefor. The taxes collected during each calendar month shall be
reported by each seller to the Clerk/Treasurer, and each seller shall remit the
amount of the tax shown by the report to have been collected to the Clerk/
Treasurer monthly for the amount of tax billed the previous month, together
with the name and address of any purchaser who has refused to pay his or her
tax. The report shall be in a form prescribed by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The service provider shall bill the electricity consumer tax to
all users who are subject to the tax and to whom it delivers electricity and
shall remit the same to this jurisdiction on a monthly basis. The taxes shall
be paid by the service provider to this jurisdiction in accordance with VA
Code, § 58.1-3814, paragraphs F. and G., and VA Code, § 58.1-2901.
      (2)   If any consumer receives and pays for electricity but refuses to
pay the tax imposed by this section, the service provider shall notify this
jurisdiction of the name and address of the consumer.
      (3)   If any consumer fails to pay a bill issued by a service provider,
including the tax imposed by this section, the service provide must follow its
normal collection procedures, and upon collection of the bill or any part
thereof must apportion the net amount collected between the charge for electric
service and the tax and remit the tax portion to this jurisdiction. Any tax
paid by the consumer to the service provider shall be deemed to be held in
trust by the provider until remitted to this jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 62-92) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
§ 34.048 COLLECTION OF TAX A DUTY OF CLERK/TREASURER; DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be charged with the power and duty of collecting
the taxes levied and imposed hereunder and shall cause the same to be paid into
the treasury of the town.
(1997 Code, § 62-93) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
§ 34.049 DUTY OF SELLER TO KEEP RECORDS; AUTHORITY OF TOWN AGENTS TO INSPECT
AND TRANSCRIBE RECORDS.
   Each seller shall keep complete records showing all purchases in the town,
which records shall show the price charged against each purchaser with respect
to each purchase, the date thereof, the date of payment thereof and the amount
of tax imposed hereunder. This record shall be kept open for inspection by the
duly authorized agents of the town during regular business hours, and the duly
authorized agents of the town shall have the right, power and authority to make
transcripts thereof during that time.
(1997 Code, § 62-94) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
§ 34.050 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The United States of America, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
the political subdivisions, boards, commissions and authorities thereof are
exempt from the tax imposed by this subchapter.
      (2)   Also exempt are public service agencies, meaning a functional
division of any public agency which provides firefighting, police, medical or
other emergency services, or private entity which provides those services on a
voluntary basis.
      (3)   All churches and other organizations listed in VA Code §§ 58.1-3606
through 58.1-3608 of the VA Code are also exempt from the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
   (B)   All entities holding an exemption issued by County Commissioner of
Revenue at the effective date of this subchapter shall likewise be exempt. From
and after the effective date of this subchapter applications for exemption
shall be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer and those which are granted shall be
forwarded to the sellers.
(1997 Code, § 62-95) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
§ 34.051 CERTAIN TELEPHONE SERVICES EXEMPTED.
   The tax imposed and levied by this subchapter on purchasers with respect to
local exchange telephone service shall apply to all charges made for local
exchange telephone service, except local calls or messages which are paid for
by inserting coins into coin-operated telephones.
(1997 Code, § 62-96) (Ord. passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
10-10-2000)
MEALS TAX
§ 34.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CATER.  The furnishing of food, beverages or both on the premises of
another, for compensation.
   FOOD. All FOOD, beverages or both, including alcoholic beverages, purchased
in or from a food establishment, whether prepared in that food establishment of
not, and whether consumed on the premises or not, and without regard to the
manner, time or place of service.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any place in or from which food or food products are
prepared, packaged, sold or distributed in the town, including but not limited
to any restaurant, dining room, grill, coffee shop, cafeteria, café, snack bar,
lunch counter, convenience store, movie theater, delicatessen, confectionery,
bakery, eating house, eatery, drugstore, ice cream/yogurt shops, lunch wagon or
truck, pushcart or other mobile facility from which food is sold, public or
private club, resort, bar, lounge or other similar establishment, public or
private, and shall include private property outside of and contiguous to a
building or structure operated as a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT at which food or food
products are sold for immediate consumption.
   MEAL. Any prepared food or drink offered or held out for sale by a food
establishment for the purpose of being consumed by any person to satisfy the
appetite and that is ready for immediate consumption. All such food and
beverage, unless otherwise specifically exempted or excluded in this
subchapter, shall be included, whether intended to be consumed on the seller’s
premises or elsewhere, whether designated as breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner,
supper or by some other name, and without regard to the manner, time or place
of service.
   SALE (OF A MEAL).  A final sale to the ultimate consumer.
   SELLER.  Any person receiving any payment for food with respect to which a
tax is levied under this subchapter.
   TREASURER. The Town Clerk/Treasurer and/or any duly designated deputy,
assistant or inspector, or any other duly authorized agent, employee or
designee.
(1997 Code, § 62-110) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.066 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)    There is imposed and levied by the town on each person a tax at the
rate of 6.5% on the amount paid for meals purchased from any food
establishment, whether prepared in the food establishment or not, and whether
consumed on the premises or not.  Any fractional cent shall be rounded to the
next higher cent.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this subchapter applies to all sales of meals and
food by a food establishment which place of business is located within the
town, without regard to the locality of delivery or possible use by the
purchaser.
(1997 Code, § 62-111) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
Statutory reference:
   Excise tax on meals, see VA Code, § 58.1-3840
§ 34.067 COLLECTION OF TAX BY SELLER.
   (A)   Every seller shall collect and remit the amount of the tax imposed by
this subchapter from the person on whom the tax is levied or from the person
paying for the food at the time payment for the food is made; provided,
however, that as set forth in VA Code, § 51.5-98, no blind person operating a
vending stand or other business enterprise under the jurisdiction of the State
Department for the Visually Handicapped and located on property acquired and
used by the United States for any military or naval purpose shall be required
to collect or remit these taxes.
   (B)   All amounts collected as taxes by the seller under this subchapter
shall be deemed to be held in trust by the seller collecting the taxes, until
remitted to the town as provided in this subchapter. If the amounts collected
as taxes are not paid as and when due, they shall thereafter become a debt of
the seller due to the town.
(1997 Code, § 62-112) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.068 EXEMPTIONS; LIMITS ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall not be levied on the
following items when served exclusively for off-premises consumption:
      (1)   Factory-prepackaged candy, gum, nuts and other items of essentially
the same nature;
      (2)   Factory-prepackaged doughnuts, ice cream, crackers, nabs, chips,
cookies and items of essentially the same nature;
      (3)   Food sold in bulk. For the purposes of this division, a BULK SALE
shall mean the sale of any item that would exceed the normal, customary and
usual portion sold for on-premises consumption (e.g., a whole cake, a gallon of
ice cream); a BULK SALE shall not include any food or beverage that is catered
or delivered by a food establishment for off-premises consumption;
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages sold in factory- sealed containers and
purchased for off-premises consumption;
      (5)   Any food or food product purchased with food coupons issued by the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Food Stamp Program or drafts
issued thorough the Virginia Special Supplemental Food Program for Women,
Infants and Children; or
      (6)   Any food or food product purchased for home consumption as defined
in the federal Food Stamp Act of 1977, 7 U.S.C. § 2012, as amended, except hot
food or hot food products ready for immediate consumption.
         (a)   For the purposes of administering the tax levied under this
subchapter, the following items, whether or not purchased for immediate
consumption, are excluded from the definition of food in the federal Food Stamp
Act: sandwiches, salad bar items sold from a salad bar, prepackaged single-
serving salads consisting primarily of an assortment of vegetables, and non-
factory-sealed beverages.
         (b)   This division shall not affect provisions set forth in divisions
(C)(3), (4) and (5) of this section.
   (B)   A grocery store, supermarket or convenience store shall not be subject
to the tax except for any portion or section therein designated as a
delicatessen or designated for the sale of prepared food and beverages.
   (C)   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall not be levied on the
following purchases of food and beverages:
      (1)   Food and beverages furnished by food establishments to employees as
part of their compensation when no charge is made to the employee;
      (2)   Food and beverages sold by daycare centers, public or private
elementary or secondary schools, or food sold by any college or university to
its students or employees;
      (3)   Food and beverages for use or consumption and which are paid for
directly by the commonwealth, any political subdivision of the commonwealth or
the United States;
      (4)   Food and beverages furnished by a hospital, medical clinic,
convalescent home, nursing home, home for the aged, infirm, handicapped,
battered women, narcotic addicts or alcoholics, or other extended care facility
to patients or residents thereof;
      (5)   Food and beverages furnished by a public or private nonprofit
charitable organization or establishment or a private establishment that
contracts with the appropriate agency of the commonwealth to offer at
concession prices to elderly, infirm, blind, handicapped or needy persons in
their homes or at central locations;
      (6)   Food and beverages sold on an occasional basis, not exceeding 3
times per calendar year, by a nonprofit education, charitable or benevolent or
religious purposes; or
      (7)   Food and beverages sold through vending machines.
(1997 Code, § 62-113) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.069 GRATUITIES AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Where a purchaser provides a gratuity for an employee of a seller, and
the amount of the gratuity is wholly in the discretion of the purchaser, the
gratuity is not subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, whether paid in
cash to the employee or added to the bill and charged to the purchaser’s
account; provided that, in the latter case, the full amount of the gratuity is
turned over to the employee by the seller.
   (B)   An amount or percent, whether designated as a gratuity, tip or service
charge, that is added to the price of the food and beverages by the seller, and
required to be paid by the purchaser, as a part of the selling price of the
food and beverages is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 62-114) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.070 REPORT OF TAXES COLLECTED; REMITTANCE; PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller required by this subchapter to
pay to the town the taxes imposed by this subchapter to register with the
Clerk/Treasurer providing such information as the Clerk/Treasurer may
prescribe.
   (B)   (1)   Every seller required by this subchapter to pay to the town the
taxes imposed by this subchapter shall file a report with the Clerk/Treasurer
within 20 days after the last day of each calendar month, on forms prescribed
by the Clerk/Treasurer, signed by the person, reporting: all purchases taxable
under this subchapter; the amount charged the purchaser for each purchase; the
date thereof; the taxes collected thereon; and the amount of tax required to be
collected by this subchapter.
      (2)   Each report shall be accompanied by a remittance of the amount of
the taxes due thereon for the preceding month.
   (C)   These records shall be kept and preserved for a period of 5 years. The
Clerk/Treasurer shall have the power to examine the records at reasonable times
and without unreasonable interference with the business of the person, for the
purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, and
to make transcripts of all or any parts thereof. In the administration and
enforcement, the Clerk/Treasurer shall also have the powers set forth in
§§ 31.030 et seq. and this chapter.
   (D)   For the purpose of compensating the persons required by this
subchapter to pay the taxes for accounting for and remitting the tax levied
under this subchapter, the person shall be allowed a commission of 2% of the
amount of tax due and accounted for in the form of a deduction of that amount
in submitting his or her monthly report and remittance, provided that the
amount paid was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(1997 Code, § 62-115) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004 ; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.071 INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO FILE A REPORT OR MAKE
REMITTANCES.
   (A)   When any seller shall fail to make any report or remit the tax
required by this subchapter there shall be imposed, in addition to any other
penalties provided in this section, a specific penalty to be added to the tax
in the amount of 10%; provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be
less than $10, and the minimum penalties shall apply whether or not any tax is
due for the period for which the report was required.
   (B)   Interest shall accrue at the rate of 10% per annum which shall be
computed on the taxes and penalty commencing 30 days from the date the report
or remittance is due.
(1997 Code, § 62-116) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004 ; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 34.072 OBLIGATIONS UPON GOING OUT OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any person required to collect and pay to the town a tax under this
subchapter shall cease to operate or otherwise dispose of his or her business,
any tax payable to the town shall become immediately due and payable through
that date, and the person shall make a report and remittance thereof within 10
days of that date.
(1997 Code, § 62-117) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 34.073 CIVIL WARRANT FOR COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAX.
   The Clerk/Treasurer is authorized, when any tax becomes delinquent under
this subchapter, to cause a civil warrant to be issued for the collection of
the tax, penalty and interest as soon as the tax becomes delinquent against the
seller or person liable for payment of the tax.
(1997 Code, § 62-118) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004 ; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.074 PROMULGATION OF SUBCHAPTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall monitor and oversee the accuracy, timeliness
and completeness of the filing of reports and payment of taxes levied under
this subchapter. The Clerk/Treasurer shall adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter
as deemed necessary for the effective administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   In administering the provisions of this subchapter, the Clerk/
Treasurer may give any seller 10 days’ notice to appear before the Clerk/
Treasurer, with such books, records and papers as the Clerk/Treasurer may
require relating to the seller’s business for the taxable period in question.
The Clerk/Treasurer may require that the seller or its agents and employees
give testimony or answer interrogatories under oath administered by the Clerk/
Treasurer respecting the meals provided and the revenues therefrom which are or
may be subject to the tax imposed hereby, or the failure to make a report
thereof as provided in this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 62-119) (Ord. passed 6-8-2004 ; Am. Ord. passed 5- -2022)
BUSINESSES
§ 34.085 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted in VA Code, §§
58.1-3700 et seq., as amended. To that end it is intended that the guidelines
promulgated by the State Department of Taxation, pursuant to VA Code, § 58.1-
3701, for the purpose of defining and explaining the separate tax categories,
govern in administering the taxes imposed in this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 18-31) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Charter reference:
   License taxes, see §§
14,
22
Statutory reference:
   Licenses, permits and fees, see VA Code, § 15.2-1125
   Local license taxes, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-3700 et seq.
   Municipal franchises, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2100 et seq.
§ 34.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS EXPENDITURES. All expenditures incurred in connection with the
acquisition or lease of real property, including cash, credits, fees,
commissions, brokerage charges and rentals, and all expenditures incurred in
connection with the improvements or development of the property, including the
cost of all labor involved in the improvement or development, cost of materials
and supplies, equipment rental or an equivalent charge therefor, if equipment
is owned by the builder or developer, and any other expenditure of whatever
description incurred in connection with the improvement or development of the
property. The term GROSS EXPENDITURES shall not include amounts expended for
interest on or payment of the principal of debt, incurred in connection with
the improvement or development work.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  
      (1)   The GROSS RECEIPTS from any business, profession, trade,
occupation, vocation, calling or activity, including cash, credits, fees,
commissions, brokerage charges and rentals, property of any kind, nature or
description from either sales made or services rendered, without any deduction
therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of material,
labor or services or other costs, interest or discounts paid, or any expense
whatsoever, and shall include, in the case of merchants, the amount of the sale
price of supplies and goods furnished to or used by the licensee or his or her
family or other person for which no charge is made; provided, however, that the
term GROSS RECEIPTS, with respect to manufacturers, wholesale merchants and
retail merchants manufacturing or dealing in articles upon which there is
levied a direct excise tax or gasoline tax by the United States or the state,
shall not include the excise tax or gasoline tax by the United States or the
state governments. For the purpose of this subchapter, the term shall not
include any amount paid to the state or any county, city or town for the state
retail sales or use tax, or any local sales tax or excise tax on cigarettes.
      (2)   The term GROSS RECEIPTS, when used in connection with or in respect
to financial transactions involving the sale of notes, stocks, bonds or other
securities or the loan, collection or advance of money or the discounting of
notes, bills or other evidences of debt, shall mean the gross interest, gross
discount, gross commission or other gross receipts earned by means of or
resulting from such financial transactions, but the term shall not include the
amount received as payment of the debt.
      (3)   The term shall include the GROSS RECEIPTS from all sales or
services rendered or activities conducted within the town, both to persons
within the town and to persons outside the town; provided, however, that the
term shall not include dues collected by trade, business, professional services
or civic associations or other similar organizations. In this connection, the
word “person” shall be construed to include governmental agencies.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company,
association or joint stock association.
      (1)   The term shall include any trustee, receiver, assignee or personal
representative thereof carrying on or continuing a business, profession, trade
or occupation, but shall not include a court-appointed trustee, receiver or
personal representative, in the liquidation of assets for immediate
distribution, or a sergeant, sheriff or any deputy, selling under authority of
process or writ of a court of justice.
      (2)   The term for the purposes of
§ 34.087 shall not include a volunteer fire department, a volunteer rescue
squad or a nonprofit organization operating a community center, swimming pool,
tennis court or other educational, cultural, recreation and athletic facilities
and facilities for the welfare of the residents of the area.
(1997 Code, § 18-32) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.087 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a business or to engage in a
profession, trade or occupation within the town, without first procuring a
license as required under the provisions of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 18-34) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   License requirement, see VA Code, § 58.1-3700
§ 34.088 TAX IMPOSED ON PRIVILEGE OF DOING BUSINESS; APPLICABILITY TO PERSONS
WITH NO REGULARLY ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   All of the taxes imposed in this subchapter are in all cases imposed upon
the privilege of doing business or engaging in a profession, trade or
occupation in a regularly established place of business or office located in
the town. Those businesses, professions, trades or occupations having no
regularly established place of business or office within the town are not taxed
by this subchapter but are subject to tax in the locality in which their
regularly established place of business or office is located.
(1997 Code, § 18-35) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.089 DUE DATE OF TAX.
   (A)    All license taxes imposed by this subchapter, except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter, shall become due and payable on or before March 1
of the license tax year (January 1 through December 31) of each calendar year.
   (B)   In all cases where the person shall begin a business, profession,
trade or occupation upon which a license tax is imposed under this subchapter
after March 1 of a license tax year, the license shall be applied for prior to
commencement of the business, profession, trade or occupation, and payment of
the appropriate license tax shall be made within 30 days of the time the person
commences the activity.
(1997 Code, § 18-36) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983; Am. Ord. passed 3-10-2020)
§ 34.090 PENALTY AND INTEREST FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If any person fails to pay a license tax when the same is due
and payable, he or she shall be subject to a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the license tax which was due and payable at the beginning of the period when
the tax should have been paid, in addition to the license tax imposed by this
subchapter. The penalty shall be assessed with the license tax and shall become
a part of the license tax, but the penalty shall in no case be less than $10.
      (2)    Interest at the rate of 10% per annum, from April 1 of the license
year, upon the license tax, plus penalties, shall be collected and accounted
for by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The payment of any penalty or interest under this section shall not
relieve any person from prosecution for engaging in any business, occupation,
trade, profession or calling without a license, in violation of §
34.087.
(1997 Code, § 18-37) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983; Am. Ord. passed 3-10-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties, interest, see VA Code, § 58.1-3916
§ 34.091 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS; 1 LICENSE FOR DIFFERENT
TYPES OF BUSINESS IN SAME PLACE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this subchapter to cover more than 1
place of business.
   (B)   If any applicant is engaged in 2 or more businesses, professions,
trades or occupations, all subject to the same rate and conducted at the same
location, all information for each such business, profession, trade or
occupation shall be given to the Clerk/Treasurer. The applicant may obtain 1
license for all the businesses, professions, trades or occupations, but
information for each shall be given and shall appear on the license application
form.
(1997 Code, § 18-38) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.092 PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   Every license issued under this subchapter shall be deemed to confer a
personal privilege to transact, carry on or conduct a business, profession,
trade or occupation in the town, and the privilege shall not be exercised
except by the person licensed. Transfer of the license, except as authorized in
this subchapter, shall be invalid and shall not relieve the transferee from the
obligation of procuring a license in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 18-39) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.093 DISPLAY OR CARRYING.
   (A)   The license form or sign issued to show payment of the license taxes
imposed by any section of this subchapter shall be displayed in a conspicuous
place at the regular place of business of the licensee and shall be produced by
the licensee on the request of any authorized enforcement officer of the town.
   (B)   Any licensee who maintains no regular place of business shall carry,
on or about his or her person, the license form or sign issued to show payment
of the license tax, which license form shall be produced by the licensee on
request of any authorized enforcement officer of the town.
   (C)   No license measured by the volume of business shall be required to be
displayed publicly.
(1997 Code, § 18-40) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.094 APPLICATION; INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   All persons embraced by this subchapter shall make application for a
license in the town office. The Clerk/Treasurer shall furnish the necessary
forms and the applicant shall complete the forms fully.
   (B)    All applications for licenses must be filed by March 1.  When any
person required by the provisions of this subchapter to make an application to
the Clerk/Treasurer shall fail to do so at the time designated, he or she shall
be fined according to the provisions of
§ 10.99.
   (C)   Every applicant for a license to conduct any business, profession,
trade or occupation under the provisions of this subchapter shall furnish the
Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, with his or her correct residence address, the
nature of the business, profession, trade or occupation to be pursued; the name
of the business; the place where it is to be pursued; and, where specified in
this subchapter, a record of gross receipts or expenditures, verified by oath,
for the next preceding year, on forms prescribed by the Clerk/Treasurer. In the
event of a failure or refusal to file with the Clerk/Treasurer the information
necessary to enable him or her to assess a license tax on the basis provided by
this subchapter, the Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue the license or assess the
tax until all necessary information has been filed to enable him or her to
assess the tax.
(1997 Code, § 18-41) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983; Am. Ord. passed 3-10-2020)
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 34.095 CALCULATION OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   The calculation of gross receipts, for the purposes of this subchapter,
shall be on either a cash or accrual basis, determined by the accounting system
of the taxpayer.
(1997 Code, § 18-42) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.096 LICENSEE’S RECORDS AND REPORTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every person liable for a license tax under this subchapter, which is
based on gross receipts or gross expenditures, shall keep all records and
accounts necessary to compute and to verify the gross receipts or gross
expenditures. All these records and accounts shall be open for audit and
inspection by the Clerk/Treasurer or his or her authorized representative, and
shall be maintained for 4 years.
   (B)   Each licensee whose license is based on gross receipts or gross
expenditures shall submit to the Clerk/Treasurer, not later than  March 1  of
each year, a report of gross receipts or gross expenditures for the preceding
calendar year. This report shall be taken from the records and accounts kept in
accord with division (A) of this section.
   (C)   In those cases in which the conduct of a business, profession, trade
or occupation involves operations subject to more than 1 rate, or computed on
more than 1 base, the licensee is hereby required to maintain separate accounts
for each operation; provided, however, that the licensee may elect to maintain
a single account for all operations taxed on gross receipts or gross
expenditures, in which case the entire business taxed on gross receipts or
gross expenditures shall be computed at the highest rate applicable to any part
of the business taxed on gross receipts or gross expenditures.
   (D)   If any licensee shall fail or refuse to maintain the records and
accounts required in this section, regularly supported by customary vouchers,
the Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue or renew any license until the records of
the gross receipts or gross expenditures have been supplied to the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 18-43) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983; Am. Ord. passed 3-10-2020)
§ 34.097 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSEE’S BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   If the Clerk/Treasurer has reason to believe that any report or statement
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to this subchapter is incorrect, he or she shall
require an investigation of the taxpayer’s books and records to be made and
shall ascertain whether the person has made a true and correct report or
statement. To that end, the officer is expressly authorized and empowered, when
necessary, to summon books and papers which he or she has reasonable cause to
believe will clarify the matter under investigation. He or she shall also be
empowered to make any further investigation and examination as he or she may
deem necessary and proper in order to determine accurately the proper report to
be made by the person. In such investigations and examinations, the Clerk/
Treasurer is specifically authorized to place the applicant under oath.
(1997 Code, § 18-44) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.098 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBTAINING LICENSE; FRAUDULENT FAILURE TO SECURE.
   (A)   Each business, profession, trade or occupation required by the
provisions of this subchapter to purchase a license for the privilege of doing
business within this town shall be responsible for obtaining the license.
Failure of the business, profession, trade or occupation to purchase the
required license can be considered as prima facie evidence of an intent to
evade the payment of the license taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   If the Clerk/Treasurer shall ascertain that any person has
fraudulently failed or refused to obtain the proper license as required by the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be taken as prima facie evidence of
intention to evade the taxes, and he or she shall be fined according to
§ 34.094(B).
(1997 Code, § 18-45) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.099 ASSESSMENT OF ADDITIONAL TAX.
   Whenever the Clerk/Treasurer shall ascertain that any person shall be
assessed with any additional license tax pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be his or her duty to assess the person, in writing, by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, with any additional
license tax as may be due. If this additional assessment shall be paid within
30 days from the date the person shall have received notice of the additional
assessment, no penalty shall accrue. If the additional assessment shall not be
paid within the 30 days, interest at the rate of 10% per annum shall accrue
thereon, from the date of the additional assessment until the time of payment.
(1997 Code, § 18-46) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.100 INITIAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person beginning a business, profession, trade or occupation
which is subject to a license tax, based in whole or in part on gross receipts
or gross expenditures, shall estimate the amount of gross receipts he or she
will receive or the gross expenditures he or she will incur between the date of
beginning business and the end of the then-current license year. The license
for the then-current license year shall be computed on the estimate.
   (B)   Whenever a license tax is computed on the estimated gross receipts or
gross expenditures, any erroneous estimate shall be subject to corrections and
the Clerk/Treasurer shall assess the person after the end of that license year
with any additional license tax determined to be due. Also, he or she shall, at
the same time, correct the estimate for the then-current license year until a
full year of operation shall have been completed. In case of an overestimate,
the taxpayer shall be entitled to a credit upon his or her license tax payable
the following year or a refund.
(1997 Code, § 18-47) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.101 TRANSFER.
   (A)   A license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable, except
where provided otherwise, only where the business for which the license was
issued has been sold or disposed of, but is to be continued by the purchaser or
transferee at the same or at some other location within the town. In no case
shall the license transfer be legal or valid unless and until notice in writing
be given to the Clerk/Treasurer. The notice shall contain the name, trade name,
if any, and the address of the proposed transferee, the proposed new location,
if any, and the time of proposed transfer. Failure to notify the Clerk/
Treasurer of the transfer of the license within 30 days after the transfer
shall invalidate the license. The Clerk/Treasurer shall give written approval
of the transfer of the license, if the transfer is approved.
   (B)   It is specifically provided, however, that if the transferor’s license
for the current license year has been based on an estimate of gross receipts,
or gross expenditures, the transferor shall reveal his or her gross receipts or
gross expenditures for the period he or she was in business during the current
license year and, if the accumulation of gross receipts by transfer shall
exceed the original estimate, the transferee shall be required to amend the
license by an estimate of the gross receipts or gross expenditures he or she
will incur between the day of beginning business and the end of the current
license year.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of all license transfers. No
person shall transfer or attempt to transfer a license contrary to the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall collect $10 for each license transfer, which
sum shall be used to pay administrative costs incurred by the license transfer.
(1997 Code, § 18-48) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.102 PRORATION OF TAX.
   Every flat rate license, except as otherwise specifically provided, for the
unexpired portion of a license tax year shall be charged on a quarterly basis.
In no case shall proration reduce the cost of the license below the minimum tax
as prescribed by this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 18-49) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Proration of license taxes, see VA Code, § 58.1-3710
§ 34.103 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE;
NONCOMPLIANCE AS GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue a license for conducting any business,
profession, trade or occupation at a location where the conduct of the
business, profession, trade or occupation is prohibited by the zoning
regulations of the town. All the licenses shall be subject to verification to
ascertain compliance with the zoning regulations. Failure to comply shall be
just cause for refusal to issue or immediate revocation of the license by the
Clerk/Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 18-50) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.104 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS, STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PLACES; NUISANCE.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as giving the right
to any person to obstruct sidewalks, streets or other public places, or to
commit or maintain a nuisance.
(1997 Code, § 18-51) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.105 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer is empowered to certify, after an audit of the
gross receipts or expenditure records of the taxpayer, any refund that may be
due either because of an overassessment of license taxes against the
individual; because the person overestimated anticipated gross receipts or
gross expenditures; or because the person, prior to the end of the expiration
of the license tax year, has ceased to engage in the business for which the
license tax was paid. Upon this certification, the Clerk/Treasurer shall make
the required refund.
   (B)   Refunds allowable under this section shall be calculated according to
the following formulae:
      (1)   Overassessment of license taxes.  Any overassessment shall be
refunded.
      (2)   Overestimation of anticipated gross receipts or gross expenditures.
The taxes shall be recomputed, payable on the basis of actual gross receipts or
actual gross expenditures. The resulting amount shall be subtracted from the
original assessed amount. The difference shall equal the amount to be refunded.
      (3)   Persons ceasing to engage in business prior to the end of the
license tax year. For persons who cease to engage in business prior to the end
of the license tax year, divide the assessed amount of the license tax by 12
months. The resulting amount shall be multiplied by the number of months
remaining in the license tax year. This shall be the amount to be refunded,
provided that when the license is based on estimated gross receipts or gross
expenditures, the tax due for the current year shall be computed on the actual
gross receipts or gross expenditures to the date of the cessation of business.
The difference shall equal the amount to be refunded or assessed, but in no
case shall the refund reduce the tax below the minimum annual tax in the
appropriate license tax schedule.
   (C)   No refund shall be allowable until all debts owed to the town are
paid.
(1997 Code, § 18-52) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Proration of license taxes, see VA Code, § 58.1-3710
§ 34.106 BUSINESSES NOT ENUMERATED BUT COVERED BY STATE LAW.
   For the privilege of engaging in any profession, occupation or business
assessable with a license tax under the state law, and not enumerated in this
subchapter, the license tax assessable and collectible by the town shall be the
same as that assessed by the state.
(1997 Code, § 18-53) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
TAX RATES
§ 34.120 CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTRACTOR.  Any person who accepts or offers to accept:
         (a)   Orders or contracts for doing any work on or in any building or
structure, requiring the use of paint, stone, brick, mortar, wood, cement,
structural iron or steel, sheet iron, galvanized iron, metallic piping, tin,
lead or other metal or any other building material;
         (b)   Contracts to do any paving, curbing or other work on sidewalks,
streets, alleys or highways, on public or private property, using asphalt,
brick, stone, cement, concrete, wood or any composition;
         (c)   An order for or contract to excavate earth, rock or other
material for foundation or any other purpose or for cutting, trimming or
maintaining rights-of-way;
         (d)   An order or contract to construct any sewer of stone, brick,
terra cotta or other material;
         (e)   Orders or contracts for doing any work on or in any building or
premises involving the erecting, installing, altering, repairing, servicing or
maintaining electric wiring, devices or appliances permanently connected to the
wiring, or the erecting, repairing or maintaining of lines for the transmission
or distribution of electric light and power;
         (f)   An order or contract to remodel, repair, wreck or demolish a
building;
         (g)   An order or contract to bore or dig a well; or
         (h)   An order or contract to install, maintain or repair air
conditioning apparatus or equipment.
   (B)   Tax imposed. The license tax imposed upon a person engaged in
contracting whose business is located in the town, or out-of-town contractors
doing $25,000.00 per year in the town, is $0.13 per $100.00 of gross receipts,
but not less than $30.00.
   (C)   Enumeration of contractors.  The contracting classification generally
includes but is not limited to persons engaged in the following occupations,
businesses or trades:
      (1)   Air conditioning;
      (2)   Brick contracting and other masonry;
       (3)   Building;
      (4)   Cementing;
      (5)   Dredging;
      (6)   Electrical contracting;
      (7)   Elevator installation;
      (8)   Erecting signs which are assessed as realty;
      (9)   Floor scraping or finishing;
      (10)   Foundations;
      (11)   House moving;
      (12)   Paint and paper decorating;
      (13)   Plastering;
      (14)   Plumbing, heating and steamfitting;
      (15)   Refrigeration;
      (16)   Road, street, bridge, sidewalk or curb and gutter building;
      (17)   Roofing and tinning;
      (18)   Sewer drilling and well digging;
      (19)   Sign painting;
      (20)   Structural metal work;
      (21)   Tile, glass, flooring and floor covering; and
      (22)   Wrecking, moving or excavating.
(1997 Code, § 18-71) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Contractors, see VA Code, § 58.1-3714
§ 34.121 MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RETAIL MERCHANT.  Any person who sells to others at retail and not for
resale.
      RETAIL SALES. The sale of goods, wares and merchandise for any purpose
other than resale.
      WHOLESALE MERCHANTS.  Any person with a definite place of business or
store in the town who sells to others for resale or who sells at wholesale to
institutional, commercial or industrial users.
   (B)   Taxes imposed. All wholesale merchants with a definite place of
business or store in the town shall pay an annual license tax equal to $0.05
per $100.00 of purchases, but not less than $30.00. The local license tax
imposed on a person engaged in retail sales in a permanent place of business
within the town is $0.13 per $100.00 of gross receipts, but not less than
$30.00.
   (C)   Conducting both wholesale and retail businesses. When a merchant
conducts both a wholesale and a retail business, that person may elect to pay
separate license taxes on the wholesale and retail parts of the business;
provided, however, that any wholesale merchant who desires to do a retail
business as well may elect to do so under a retailer’s license by paying the
license taxes as a retailer on both the retail and wholesale business.
(1997 Code, § 18-72) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Wholesale merchants, see VA Code, § 58.1-3716
§ 34.122 PEDDLER DEFINED; TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PEDDLER.  
         (a)   Any person who carries from place to place any goods, wares or
merchandise and offers to sell or actually sells them;
         (b)   Any person who does not keep a regular place of business but
offers to sell goods, wares and merchandise; and
         (c)   Any person who keeps a regular place of business, with regular
business hours at the same place, who other than at that regular place of
business, personally or through agents, offers for sale or sells and, at the
time of the offering for sale, delivers goods, wares and merchandise.
   (B)   The local tax imposed is $50 per year.
(1997 Code, § 18-73) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.123 ITINERANT VENDOR DEFINED; TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person who engages in, does or transacts any
temporary or transient business in this state, either in 1 locality or in
traveling from place to place in the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and
who for this uses or occupies any building or structures, motor vehicle, tent,
car, boat or public room or any part thereof, including rooms in hotels,
lodging houses or houses of private entertainment, or in any street, alley or
public place in any city or town, or in any public road in any county, for a
period of less than 1 year, for the exhibition of or sale of the goods, wares
or merchandise.
   (B)   The local license tax is $500 per year.
(1997 Code, § 18-74) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Peddlers, itinerant vendors, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-3717 et seq.
§ 34.124 FINANCIAL, REAL ESTATE AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FINANCIAL SERVICE. Any person rendering a service for compensation in the
form of a credit agency, an investment company, a broker or dealer in
securities and commodities or a security or commodity exchange, unless that
service is specifically provided for under another section of this subchapter.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICE. Any service specifically enumerated in division (C)
of this section and any occupation or vocation in which a professed knowledge
of some department of science or learning, gained by a prolonged course of
specialized instruction and study, is used by its practical application to the
affairs of others, either advising, guiding or teaching them, and in serving
their interests or welfare in the practice of an art or science founded on it.
The word “profession” implies attainments in professional knowledge as
distinguished from mere skill, and the application of knowledge to uses for
others as a vocation.
      REAL ESTATE SERVICE.  Any person rendering a service for compensation as
lessor, buyer, seller, developer, agent or broker, unless the service is
specifically provided under another section of this subchapter.
      SUBDIVIDERS AND DEVELOPERS. Those engaged in subdividing real property
into lots, including cemetery lots, and developing it for resale on their own
account or for others.
   (B)   Taxes imposed. The local license taxes imposed on a person engaged in
a financial, real estate or professional service with a permanent place of
business within the town is $0.13 per $100.00 of gross receipts, but not less
than $30.00.
   (C)   Enumeration of financial, real estate and professional services. Those
deemed to be engaged in rendering financial, real estate and professional
services include but are not limited to those engaged in the following:
      (1)   Financial services. 
         (a)   Professions classified as financial services are as follows:
            1.   Buying installment receiv- ables;
            2.   Chattel mortgage financing;
            3.   Consumer financing;
            4.   Credit card services;
            5.   Credit unions (nonfederal), maximum license tax, $50;
            6.   Factors;
            7.   Financing accounts receivable;
            8.   Industrial loan companies;
            9.   Installment financing;
            10.   Inventory financing;
            11.   Loan or mortgage brokers;
            12.   Loan or mortgage companies;
            13.   Safety deposit box companies;
            14.   Security and commodity brokers and services;
            15.   Stockbroker; and
            16.   Working capital financing.
         (b)   Any person other than a national bank or bank or trust company
organized under the laws of this state, or any duly licensed practicing
attorney-at-law who engages in the business of buying or selling for others, on
commission or for other compensation, shares in any corporation, bonds, notes
or other evidences of debt is a stockbroker. The fact that orders are taken
subject to approval by a main office does not relieve the broker from local
license taxation. Also an insurance company engaged in selling mutual funds is
a broker as to that portion of its business.
      (2)   Real estate services. Those deemed to be rendering real estate
services include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Appraisers of real estate;
         (b)   Escrow agents, real estate;
         (c)   Fiduciaries, real estate;
         (d)   Real estate agents, brokers or managers;
         (e)   Real estate selling agents; and
         (f)   Rental agents for real estate.
      (3)   Professional services.  
         (a)   Those deemed to be engaged in rendering a professional service
include but are not limited to:
            1.   Architects;
            2.   Attorneys-at-law;
            3.   Certified public accountants;
            4.   Dentists;
            5.   Engineers;
            6.   Land surveyors;
            7.   Pharmacists;
            8.   Practitioners of the healing arts;
            9.   Surgeons; and
            10.   Veterinarians.
         (b)   The performing of services dealing with the conduct of business
itself, including the promotion of sales or services of the business and
consulting services, even though the services involve the application of a
specialized knowledge.
   (D)   Liability for local license taxation.  
      (1)   Certification as a professional by itself is not sufficient to
establish liability for local license taxation. Also, the fact that a
professional is compensated by means of a salary is not sufficient by itself to
relieve that professional from local license tax liability.
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of local license taxation as a
professional include only those gross receipts obtained from the practice of
that profession as a business, whether it be on a full-time or part-time basis,
incorporated, partnership, sole proprietorship or association form.
(1997 Code, § 18-75) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.125 REPAIR, PERSONAL, BUSINESS OR OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS SERVICE. Any service rendered for compensation to any business,
trade, occupation or governmental agency, unless the service is specifically
provided for under another section of this subchapter.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. Any service rendered for compensation either upon or
for persons, animals or personal effects, unless the service is specifically
provided for under another section of this subchapter.
      REPAIR SERVICE. The repairing, renovating, cleaning or servicing of some
article or item of personal property for compensation, unless the service is
specifically provided for under another section of this subchapter.
   (B)   Taxes imposed. The local license taxes imposed on a person engaged in
a repair, personal or business service or any other business or occupation not
specifically listed or excepted from VA Code, § 58.1-3706, is $0.13 per $100.00
of gross receipts, but not less than $30.00.
   (C)   Enumeration of repair, personal, business or other services.  
      (1)   Those deemed to be rendering a repair, personal or business service
or other service as provided in division (B) of this section include but are
not limited to the following:
         (a)   Advertising agencies, services and representatives;
         (b)   Airports;
         (c)   Ambulance services;
         (d)   Amusements and recreation services (all types);
         (e)   Animal hospitals, grooming services, kennels or stables;
         (f)   Auctioneers;
         (g)   Auditoriums;
         (h)   Automobile driving schools;
         (i)   Barber shops, beauty parlors and hairdressing establishments,
schools and services;
         (j)   Bid or building reporting service;
         (k)   Billiard or pool establishments or parlors;
         (l)   Blacksmith or wheelwright;
         (m)   Bondsperson;
         (n)   Booking agents or concert managers;
         (o)   Bottle exchanges;
         (p)   Bowling alleys;
         (q)   Brokers and commission merchants, other than real estate or
financial brokers;
         (r)   Business research and consulting services;
         (s)   Chartered clubs;
         (t)   Childcare attendants or schools;
         (u)   Collection agents or agencies;
         (v)   Commercial photography, art and graphics;
         (w)   Commercial sports;
         (x)   Dancehalls (maximum license tax, $600.00), studios and schools;
         (y)   Data processing, computer and systems development services;
         (z)   Developing or enlarging photographs;
         (aa)   Detective agency and protective services;
         (bb)   Drafting services;
         (cc)   Engraver;
         (dd)   Erecting, installing, removing or storing awnings;
         (ee)   Extermination services;
         (ff)   Freight traffic bureaus;
         (gg)   Fumigating or disinfecting;
         (hh)   Funeral services and crematories;
         (ii)   Golf courses, driving ranges and miniature golf courses;
         (jj)   Hauling of sand, gravel or dirt;
         (kk)   Hotels, motels, tourist courts, boardinghouses and rooming
houses, trailer parks and campsites;
         (ll)   House cleaning services;
         (mm)   Impounding lots;
         (nn)   Information bureaus;
         (oo)   Instructors, tutors, schools and studios of music, ceramics,
art, sewing, sports and the like;
         (pp)   Interior decorating;
         (qq)   Janitorial services;
         (rr)   Laundry cleaning and garment services including laundries, dry
cleaners, line supply, diaper service, coin-operated laundries and carpet and
upholstery cleaning;
         (ss)   Mailing, messenger and cor- respondent services;
         (tt)   Marinas and boat landings;
         (uu)   Movie theaters and drive-in theaters;
         (vv)   Nickel-plating, chromizing and electroplating;
         (ww)   Nurses and physicians registries;
         (xx)   Nursing and personal care facilities, including nursing homes,
convalescent homes, homes for the retarded, old age homes and rest homes;
         (yy)   Packing, crating, shipping, hauling or moving goods or chattels
for others;
         (zz)   Parcel delivery services;
         (aaa)   Parking lots, public garages and valet parking;
         (bbb)   Pawnbrokers;
         (ccc)   Personnel supply services, labor agents and employment
bureaus;
         (ddd)   Photographers and photographic services;
         (eee)   Piano tuning;
         (fff)   Picture framing and gilding;
         (ggg)   Porter services;
         (hhh)   Press clipping services;
         (iii)   Private hospitals;
         (jjj)   Promotional agents or agencies;
         (kkk)   Public relations services;
         (lll)   Realty multiple listing services;
         (mmm)   Renting or leasing any items of tangible personal property;
         (nnn)   Reproduction services;
         (ooo)   Secretarial services;
         (ppp)   Septic tank cleaning;
         (qqq)   Shoe repair, shoeshine and hat repair shops;
         (rrr)   Sign painting;
         (sss)   Speculative builders;
         (ttt)   Storage, all types;
         (uuu)   Subdividers and developers;
         (vvv)   Swimming pool maintenance and management;
         (www)   Tabulation services;
         (xxx)   Taxidermist;
         (yyy)   Telephone answering services
         (zzz)   Theaters;
         (aaaa)   Theatrical performers, bands and orchestras;
         (bbbb)   Towing services;
         (cccc)   Transportation services, including buses and taxis;
         (dddd)   Travel bureaus;
         (eeee)   Tree surgeons, trimmers and removal services;
         (ffff)   Turkish, Roman or other like baths or parlors;
         (gggg)   Wake-up services; and
         (hhhh)   Washing, cleaning or polishing automobiles.
      (2)   Any person buying or selling any kind of goods, wares or
merchandise for another is a commission merchant and the profession is
classified as a business service.
(1997 Code, § 18-76) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.126 HEAT, LIGHT, POWER AND GAS COMPANIES; TAX IMPOSED.
   All persons furnishing heat, light, power and gas for domestic, commercial
and industrial consumption in the town shall pay for the privilege an annual
license tax equal to 0.5% of the gross receipts of the business derived from
within the town during the preceding calendar or fiscal year.
(1997 Code, § 18-77) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, see VA Code, § 58.1-3731
§ 34.127 TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANIES; TAX IMPOSED.
   All persons engaged in the business of providing telephone communications in
the town shall pay for the privilege an annual license tax equal to 0.5% of the
gross receipts during the preceding year from local telephone exchange service,
including flat rate service and message rate service, but excluding long
distance telephone calls.
(1997 Code, § 18-78) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, see VA Code, § 58.1-3731
§ 34.128 TV ANTENNA CABLE SERVICE; TAX IMPOSED.
   All persons furnishing cable TV service shall pay for the privilege an
annual license tax of 3% of the gross income from the town.
(1997 Code, § 18-79) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
§ 34.129 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TAXES IMPOSED.
   Retail on-premises and off-premises licensees shall pay the following
license taxes:
   (A)   Retail on-premises beer or wine only license, $20 per annum; and
   (B)   Retail off-premises beer or wine only license, $20 per annum.
(1997 Code, § 18-80) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverage licenses, see VA Code, § 4.1-233
§ 34.130 COIN-OPERATED MACHINE OPERATORS; TAXES IMPOSED.
   (A)   An annual license tax of $200 shall be imposed on any operator
leasing, renting or otherwise furnishing or providing 10 or more coin-operated
machines or devices operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle, and $175 on 3
to 9 machines; provided, however, that the term “operator” shall not include a
person owning less than 3 coin machines and operating the machines on property
owned or leased by the person.
   (B)   A tax based on gross receipts actually received by the operator shall
be paid for the privilege of operating coin-operated machines or devices within
the town.
   (C)   Gross receipts from machines vending merchandise or postage stamps
shall be deemed gross receipts from retail sales and taxed at the same rate as
retail sales.
(1997 Code, § 18-81) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Merchants, see
§ 34.121
Statutory reference:
   Coin-operated machines, see VA Code, §§ 58.1-3720 et seq.
§ 34.131 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, DOG AND PONY SHOWS OR OTHER SIMILAR SHOWS.
   (A)   Tax imposed. Every person operating a circus, carnival, dog or pony
show, or similar type of show in the town shall pay a license tax of $175 per
day; provided, however, that no such show or performance shall be exhibited
anywhere in the town where the Council deems it improper to do so.
   (B)   Exemption.  No license fee shall be charged under the provisions of
this section when the whole or net proceeds of any performance are applied to
religious, charitable, educational or benevolent purposes.
(1997 Code, § 18-82) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Carnivals, circuses and the like, see VA Code, § 58.1-3728
§ 34.132 SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Permit required; tax imposed. Every person who goes from place to
place soliciting orders for the sale of goods or merchandise of any
description, or soliciting money or other things of value for any cause, shall
prior to such soliciting obtain a permit from the Clerk/Treasurer. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall issue the permit, which is nonassignable, upon the application
of the solicitor. Every solicitor must state his or her name, address,
employment or the cause which he or she represents and pay a license fee of
$20.
   (B)   Exemption.  The provision of this section will be waived for
solicitors who are soliciting for the sole benefit of a nonprofit religious,
charitable, educational or civic organization.
(1997 Code, § 18-83) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 34.133 WAREHOUSES FOR THE SALE OF LEAF TOBACCO; TAXES IMPOSED.
   There shall be a license tax of $20.00, plus $0.02 per $100.00 of gross
receipts imposed on warehouses for the sale of tobacco leaf.
(1997 Code, § 18-84) (Ord. passed 5-31-1983)
CIGARETTE TAX
§ 34.140 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AGENT. Every dealer and other person who shall be authorized by the
treasurer to purchase and affix stamps to packages of cigarettes under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   DEALER. Every manufacturer, distributor, jobber, wholesale dealer or other
person who supplies a seller with cigarettes.
   PACKAGE. Every package, box, can or other container of any cigarettes to
which the internal revenue stamp of the United States government is required to
be affixed by and under federal statutes and regulations and in which retail
sales of such cigarettes are normally made or intended to be made.
   SALE. Every act or transaction, irrespective of the method or means
employed, including the use of vending machines and other mechanical devices,
whereby title to any cigarettes shall be transferred from the seller, as
defined in this section, to any other person within the town.
   SELLER. Every person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes at retail
within the town, in whose place of business title to any such cigarettes is
transferred to any other person and not for the purpose of resale.
   STAMP. The small gummed piece of paper or decal to be sold by the treasurer
and to be affixed by the agent to every package of cigarettes; it shall also
denote any insignia or symbol printed by a meter machine upon any such package
under authorization of the treasurer.
   TREASURER. The town treasurer and every person duly authorized by him/her to
serve as his/her representative.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.141 TAX LEVIED; AMOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed by the town, in addition to any
other taxes which may be or have been imposed, a tax to be paid and collected
as provided in this subchapter on each and every sale of cigarettes made in the
town. The tax is to be paid by the seller, dealer or other agent by affixing a
stamp, or causing a stamp to be affixed to every package of cigarettes, in the
kind and manner required in this subchapter and at the applicable rates as
follows: The rate or amount of tax levied or imposed on cigarettes shall be at
the rate of $0.27 for each 20 cigarettes or fractional part thereof.
   (B)   In the event that the rate stated herein is increased by act of the
Town Council, any person with unsold inventory to pay the tax increase on the
unsold inventory by filing a return within one calendar year after the increase
rather than requiring the use of a stamp or meter impression. Such return shall
identify the amount of unsold inventory, the amount of tax paid on such unsold
inventory, and the amount of tax due as a result of the tax rate increase. Such
return shall be due 6 calendar months after the effective date of the tax rate
increase. For purposes of this subsection, UNSOLD INVENTORY means cigarettes
held prior to the tax rate increase.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.142 PREPARATION, SALE, ETC., OF STAMPS; DUTIES OF TREASURER GENERALLY.
   (A)   The treasurer shall acquire, keep and sell necessary stamps to dealers
and other agents, the stamps to be of such denominations and quantities as may
be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed in this subchapter.
   (B)   In the sale of such stamps to a dealer or other agent, the treasurer
shall allow a discount of $0.02 per stamp of the face value thereof to cover
the cost which will be incurred by such dealer or agent in affixing the stamps
to packages of cigarettes.
   (C)   The treasurer may, from time to time and as often as he/she deems
advisable, provide for the issuance and exclusive use of stamps of a new design
and forbid the use of stamps of any other design. The treasurer is empowered to
make and carry into effect such reasonable rules and regulations relating to
the preparation, furnishing, sale and redemption of stamps as he/she may deem
necessary. In redeeming stamps or making refunds for destroyed stamps, he/she
shall not in any case refund more than 90% of the face value of such redeemed
or destroyed stamps. He/she is further authorized and empowered to prescribe
the method to be employed, the conditions to be observed, and any other
necessary requirements not contrary to this subchapter in the use of meter
machines for printing upon packages of cigarettes an insignia to represent the
payment of the tax and in lieu of stamps.
   (D)   The treasurer may require every dealer, agent or seller to cancel
stamps upon all packages of cigarettes in his/her possession.
   (E)   In addition to powers granted in divisions (A) through (C) of this
section, the treasurer is further authorized and empowered to:
      (1)   Prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations
relating to the method and means to be used in the implementation of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Delegate his/her powers to agents or others, including the police
officers of the town;
      (3)   Act in any other matters pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.143 INSPECTION OF RECORDS, PREMISES, ETC.
   The treasurer, or his/her duly authorized agent, is empowered to examine
books, records, invoices and papers related to purchases, sales, etc., of
cigarettes, and to examine all cigarettes in and upon any premises where
cigarettes are placed, sold, stored, offered for sale or displayed for sale by
a seller.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.144 SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF UNTAXED CIGARETTES, ETC.
   (A)   If the treasurer or his/her agent discovers any cigarettes subject to
the tax imposed under this subchapter, but upon which such tax has not been
paid and upon which stamps have not been affixed or evidence of payment is not
shown thereon by printed markings of a meter machine in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, then the treasurer or duly authorized agents or
officers, any of them, may seize and take possession forthwith of such
cigarettes, which shall thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the town. Such
cigarettes may, within a reasonable time thereafter, and after written notice
is posted at the front door of the town hall at least 5 days before the date
given therein for sale, shall sell such cigarettes in the place designated in
such notice.
   (B)   Any property, other than motor vehicles, used in the furtherance of
any illegal evasion of the tax may be seized, confiscated and disposed of as
provided in division (A) of this section. No credit from any sale or other
disposition shall be allowed toward any tax or penalties owed.
   (C)   The seizure and sale of any property shall not be deemed to relieve
any person of any other penalties provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.145 PRESUMPTION BASED UPON STAMPS OR MARKINGS.
   If any package of cigarettes is found in the possession of a seller without
proper stamps or authorized printed markings thereon, and the seller is unable
to submit evidence establishing that he/she received such packages, containers
or items within the immediately preceding 48 hours, and that he/she has not
offered the same for sale, then it shall be presumed that such packages,
containers, or items are being kept in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, and the seller shall be subject to the tax and a penalty in the
amount of 50% thereof, even though such seller is also an agent.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.146 OBLIGATION OF DEALERS AND AGENTS REGARDING STAMPS.
   (A)   Every dealer in cigarettes and every agent appointed under this
section shall purchase necessary stamps from the town treasurer to pay the tax
imposed under this subchapter and shall affix or cause to be affixed a stamp of
the monetary value provided by this subchapter to each package of cigarettes
prior to delivery or furnishing such cigarettes to any seller who is not also
an agent.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to preclude any
dealer from employing an agent, so long as such agent is duly authorized by the
treasurer, to purchase and affix such stamps on his/her behalf or to have a
stamp meter machine used in lieu of stamps to effectuate the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Stamps or printed markings of a meter machine shall be placed upon
each package of cigarettes in such a manner as to be readily visible to the
purchaser.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of every seller to determine that each
package of cigarettes offered for sale has a proper stamp affixed thereto in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   If inspection by the treasurer or his/her agents discloses unstamped
or improperly stamped packages of cigarettes, the seller, when such cigarettes
were obtained from a dealer, shall immediately notify such dealer and upon such
notification such dealer shall forthwith either affix to the unstamped or
improperly stamped package, container or item with proper amount of stamps or
he shall replace such package, container or item with others to which stamps
have been properly affixed. If a seller, who is not also an agent, acquires or
has in his/her possession unstamped or improperly stamped cigarettes, the
seller shall forthwith notify the treasurer of such fact. The treasurer shall
thereupon affix or cause to be affixed the proper stamps to such cigarettes.
The cost of such stamps at face value shall be advanced by such seller.
   (F)   Every dealer and seller shall maintain and keep for a period of at
least 2 years such records of cigarettes received and sold by him/her as may be
required by the treasurer; such records shall be made available for examination
in the town by the treasurer upon demand, and the means, facilities and
opportunities for making any such examination shall be made available at all
reasonable times.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.147 PRESUMPTIONS BASED ON QUANTITY.
   Cigarettes found in quantities of more than 6 cartons within the town shall
be conclusively presumed for sale therein and may be seized and confiscated if:
   (A)   They are in transit, and are not accompanied by a bill of lading or
other document indicating the true name and address of the consignor or seller
and of the consignee or purchaser, and the brands and quantity of cigarettes so
transported, or they are in transit and accompanied by a bill of lading or
other document which is false or fraudulent, in whole or in part;
   (B)   They are in transit and are accompanied by a bill of lading or other
document indicating:
      (1)   A consignee or purchaser in another state or the District of
Columbia who is not authorized by the law of such other jurisdiction to receive
or possess such cigarettes on which the taxes imposed by such other
jurisdiction have not been paid, unless the tax of the state or district of
destination has been paid and the products bear the tax stamps of that state or
district; or
      (2)   A consignee or purchaser in the commonwealth but outside the town
who does not possess a state sales and use tax certificate, a state retail
cigarettes license and, where applicable, both a business license and retail
cigarettes license issued by the local jurisdiction of destination; or
   (C)   They are not in transit and the tax has not been paid, nor have
approved arrangements for payment been made, provided that this section shall
not apply to cigarettes in the possession of distributors or public warehouses
which have filed notice and appropriate proof with the town that those
cigarettes are temporarily within the town and will be sent to consignees or
purchasers outside the jurisdiction in the normal course of business.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.148 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   Revenue derived from the tax imposed in this subchapter shall be deposited
by the treasurer to the credit of the general fund of the town for utilization
for such legal purposes as the council of the town may from time to time
determine.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.149 ILLEGAL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any dealer or
other person liable for the tax to:
   (A)   Perform any act or fail to perform any act for the purpose of evading
the payment of any tax imposed by this subchapter or of any part thereof, or to
fail or refuse to perform any of the duties imposed under him/her under the
provisions of this subchapter or to fail or refuse to obey any lawful order
which may be issued under this subchapter;
   (B)   Falsely or fraudulently make, or cause to be made, any invoices or
reports, or to falsely or fraudulently forge, alter or counterfeit any stamp,
or to procure or cause to be made, forged, altered or counterfeited any such
stamp or knowingly and willfully to alter, publish, pass or tender as true any
false, altered, forged or counterfeited stamp or stamps;
   (C)   Sell, offer for sale or authorize or approve the sale of any
cigarettes upon which the town stamp has not been affixed;
   (D)   Possess, store, use, authorize or approve the possession, storage or
use of any cigarettes in quantities of more than 60 cigarettes upon which the
town stamp has not been affixed;
   (E)   Transport, authorize or approve the transportation of any cigarettes
in quantities of more than 60 packages into or within the town upon which the
town stamp has not been affixed, if they are:
      (1)   Not accompanied by a bill of lading or other document indicating
the true name and address of the consignor or seller and the consignee or
purchaser and the brands and quantity of cigarettes transported;
      (2)   Accompanied by a bill of lading or other document which is false or
fraudulent in whole or part; or
      (3)   Accompanied by a bill of lading or other document indicating:
         (a)   A consignee or purchaser in another state or District of
Columbia who is not authorized by the law of such other jurisdiction to receive
or possess such tobacco products on which the taxes imposed by such other
jurisdiction have not been paid unless the tax on the jurisdiction of
destination has been paid and such cigarettes bear the tax stamps of the
jurisdiction; or
         (b)   A consignee or purchaser in the state but outside the taxing
jurisdiction who does not possess a state sales and use tax certification, a
state retail tobacco license and, where applicable, a business license and a
retail tobacco license issued by the local jurisdiction of destination;
   (F)   Reuse or refill with cigarettes any package from which cigarettes have
been removed, for which the tax imposed has been theretofore paid; or
   (G)   Remove from any package any stamp with intent to use or cause the
package to be used after such package has already been used or to buy, sell or
offer for sale or give away any used, removed, altered or restored stamps to
any person, or to reuse any stamp which had therefore been used for evidence of
the payment of any tax prescribed by this subchapter or to sell, or offer to
sell, any stamp provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
§ 34.150 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   Any persons violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Any fine and/or imprisonment pursuant to
conviction of a Class 1 misdemeanor shall not relieve any such person from the
payment of any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5- 2022)
§ 34.151 EACH VIOLATION A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   The sale of any quantity or the use, possession, storage or transportation
of more than 60 packages of cigarettes upon which the town stamp has not been
affixed shall be and constitutes a separate violation. Each continuing day of
violation shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5- -2022)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Civic and Cultural Facilities and Affairs; Community Building
   
35.01   Charge for use; cleanup
   
35.02   Responsibility for damages
   
35.03   Inspection for damages; repairs
   
35.04   Liability for damage forms
   
35.05   Jurisdiction over use; committee appointed
   
35.06   Charge for use by commercial organizations
   
35.07   Admission charges or collections; special permission required
   
35.08   Cleaning and damage deposit
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition and housing of works of art, see VA Code, § 15.2-945
   Donations for commemorating historical events, see VA Code, § 15.2-953
   Living historical farm museums, see VA Code, § 15.2-943
   Portrayal of historical or cultural events, see VA Code, § 15.2-942
   Regulation of tour guides and tourist guides, see VA Code, § 15.2-946
CIVIC AND CULTURAL FACILITIES AND AFFAIRS; COMMUNITY BUILDING
§ 35.01 CHARGE FOR USE; CLEANUP.
   The charge established by the Council from time to time for the use of the
community building auditorium shall be made. Each organization using it shall
clean it up afterwards. This cleaning shall be done by 9:00 a.m. the following
morning. The building shall be inspected and left in good condition.
(1997 Code, § 26-31)
§ 35.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person or organization using the community building shall be responsible
for any damage done to the building.
(1997 Code, § 26-32)
§ 35.03 INSPECTION FOR DAMAGES; REPAIRS.
   (A)   Any person or organization using the community building shall
designate some person from the organization to inspect the community building
before use. This shall be done in the company of the Police Chief or his or her
deputy.
   (B)   A similar inspection shall be made after use to determine whether
damage has been done to the building or equipment. If it is found that any
damage has been done to the building or equipment on the occasion in question,
the person or organization shall be required to pay for damage and to replace
any property that may be so badly injured that it cannot be repaired.
(1997 Code, § 26-33)
§ 35.04 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE FORMS.
   There shall be printed forms to be signed by the organization or individual
using the building, binding themselves to pay for any damage that may be done
to the community building or equipment while in the custody, care or control of
the person or organization.
(1997 Code, § 26-34)
§ 35.05 JURISDICTION OVER USE; COMMITTEE APPOINTED.
   A committee composed of 2 Council Members and 1 citizen shall be appointed
to have jurisdiction over the use of the building, and to have full authority
over the building except in case of emergency, at which time the Council as a
body will be consulted.
(1997 Code, § 26-35)
§ 35.06 CHARGE FOR USE BY COMMERCIAL ORGANIZATIONS.
   All commercial organizations shall pay a charge of $50 for the use of the
auditorium.
(1997 Code, § 26-36)
§ 35.07 ADMISSION CHARGES OR COLLECTIONS; SPECIAL PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No person, group of persons, corporation or others using this community
building of the town for any type of program, religious or otherwise, shall
charge admission thereto or take up any collection in connection therewith, or
receive contributions in connection with the program or service, except upon
special permission being asked for and approved by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 26-37)
§ 35.08 CLEANING AND DAMAGE DEPOSIT.
   Any person or organization making use of the community building pursuant to
the provisions of this subchapter shall be required to make a deposit with the
Clerk/Treasurer, as established by the Council from time to time, which sum or
part of a sum may be retained for any cleaning expense or damage as determined
by the committee established in
§ 35.05; provided, however, that the deposit required in this section may be
waived by the committee upon a showing of financial responsibility by the
person or organization requesting use of the community building.
(1997 Code, § 26-38)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Water and Sewer Service; Rates and Charges
   
50.01   Water and sewer connection procedure
   
50.02   Water and sewer rate schedule
   
50.03   Metered rates; water rate schedule
   
50.04   Metered rates; sewer rate schedule
   
50.05   Billing policy
   
50.06   Use of service and billing date
   
50.07   Out-of-town rates
   
50.08   Charges due and payable upon vacation of premises
   
50.09   Responsibility for sewer service charges
Charter reference:
   Utilities, see §§
10 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Health regulations pertaining to public water supplies, see VA Code, current
statute
   Local sewage disposal, see VA Code, current statute
   Local water supply systems, see VA Code, current statute
   Water-saving ordinances, see VA Code, current statute
   Water supply emergency ordinances, see VA Code, current statute
   The State Corporation Commission (SCC) does not regulate municipal
utilities. The Commonwealth of Virginia has not enacted any type of winter rate
policies related to service termination due to non-payment for natural gas and
electricity customers. The Town of Brookneal only operates water, sewer and
solid waste services and has not enacted any winter rate policies.
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE; RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for brand new connection, where no previous physical
connection exists. Anyone who wishes to be connected to the town water or sewer
system must first complete an application at the town office to provide the
necessary information for town staff to develop cost estimates. If an applicant
fails or refuses to supply the town with the information needed to establish a
new physical connection to the system, no new connection can be established.
   (B)   Cost estimates for availability fee, connection fee, new account fee,
materials and labor.  
      (1)   Where a new connection to an existing town water or sewer main is
feasible, as determined by town staff and in compliance with other parts of
town code, a written cost estimate will be prepared which includes availability
flat fee, new account setup fee, and variable connection fees: new water meter,
estimates for the cost of materials to extend town main lines to the customer’s
water and/or sewer laterals from the most convenient location on the existing
mains. And an estimate for the town labor costs, to physically connect to the
main line.
      (2)   Lines will only be installed after the property owner agrees to pay
for the costs and only after the property owner provides proper documentation
to the town for any and all easements and rights-of-way needed for connection.
      (3)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to acquire easements or
right-of-way necessary for connections. It is the responsibility of the
property owner to install at the owner’s expense either water and/or sewer
lines from the structure to the water meter and/or sewer main. If connection to
town main lines requires work under a road, or sidewalk, or some other
structure or impediment; the property owner must contract with a qualified
construction company to install the necessary pipes, lines, drains, pumps,
electricity etc. in order to reach the town main lines.
      (4)   The town may not have adequate resources for example to cut roads,
sidewalks, etc., install piping, tubing, plumbing, pumps, electricity, etc. and
rebuild in accordance with state regulations. It shall be the responsibility of
the private contractor selected by the property owner to interact with VDOT in
order to obtain any permits needed for work conducted within the state right-
of-way. The Town of Brookneal is only responsible for making the final tie-in
connections of the owner’s lateral lines directly to the water meter, or sewer
main line. The work to perform the actual, physical connection of private
lateral lines to the public main shall be scheduled in advance to be performed
during normal town workdays and not before or after hours, on weekends, or
holidays.
      (5)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to select a qualified
contractor of their choice to perform work in the state right-of- way. It is
the owner’s responsibility to understand the costs that will be charged by the
private, specialty contractor. It is the owner’s responsibility to pay for the
costs of contracted work in the state right-of-way. The charges assessed by the
town are only for those activities directly performed by the town and do not
include the costs of specialty contracting, which again are separate expenses
to be paid by the property owner.
   (C)   Connection fees definition. Connection fees are not the same as
availability or any other fees. Connection fees are variable and are the
charges the customer pays to the town to have water and sewer main lines
physically extended (where possible) to a point where the customer’s private
water and sewer laterals can be connected to the public main lines. Connection
fees shall be the cost of the materials and labor. The town will create and
present to the property owner a good faith, written cost estimate of connection
fees. The customer will only be charged for actual labor and material expenses.
If the project requires more labor and materials than estimated, the customer
must pay those extra charges. The town works in good faith to do the job
safely, efficiently, and professionally.
   (D)   The town is not responsible for installing water and/or sewer main
lines under any road, sidewalk, railroad track, foundation, slab etc. for the
purpose of supplying water and/or sewer service to any property. It is the
property owner’s responsibility to install their private lines from their
structure to the new water meter, and up to and within 3 feet of the town sewer
main line even if such connections are on the opposite side of the road from
the structure to be served. The town will strive to assist the property owner
with developing the most direct route to tie in to the existing town main
lines.
   (E)   New sewer laterals from property owner’s structure must connect to the
town main line at or slightly above the grade of the town main line. The town
will not connect any private sewer lateral to the main sewer line, when the
private lateral is below the grade of the town sewer main line. Where necessary
forced pumps may be permissible when authorized by the town. Forced pumps shall
be installed and maintained at the expense of the property owner. All new sewer
laterals installed shall have backflow prevention devices installed by a
licensed plumbing contractor to prevent sewerage/waste water from backing up
into the structure being served. All property owners are responsible for taking
every precaution to protect their property from a water/sewer backup/overflow.
The town shall not be responsible for any sewerage/waste water backup except in
cases of intentional and willful neglect. Sewer backups are rare but can occur
due to no fault of the town. All property owners are encouraged to talk to a
licensed property and casualty insurance agent to make sure water/sewer backups
will be covered should such event occur. It is not the town’s responsibility to
clean up a sewer or water backup in a structure unless the backup was caused,
and can be proven to have resulted from intentional and willful neglect.
   (F)   Payment of costs. Payment for the connection of water and/or sewer
service to the town’s main water and sewer line shall be done in the following
manner:
      (1)   All fixed fees and known expense amounts shall be paid prior to the
town starting any work to extend service to the property in question.
      (2)   Payment for variable connection fees including but not limited to
materials and labor shall be due upon completion of work, but must be received
prior to any water or sewer service actually being provided.
      (3)   In circumstances where the customer seeking service has a limited,
fixed income and can show that strict adherence to this schedule would create
undue financial hardship, an alternate payment schedule may be developed upon
approval by either the Council or staff. A request for this alternate method
for payment must be made in writing to either the Council or staff, give
sufficient evidence of hardship and be only for the provision of service to a
single-family dwelling which a single family resides. The town Clerk/Treasurer
or Director of Public Works shall draw up a schedule of monthly payments.
Failure by the customer to make payments according to the schedule will be
considered sufficient grounds by the town to discontinue service. Decision by
the Council or staff in these cases as to the existence of any financial
hardship shall be final.
(1997 Code, § 70-31) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Availability fees. Availability fees are 1-time fees that are
collected and used to offset capital expenditures (water filtration plant,
pumps, motors, filters, tanks, hydrants, reservoir, all waste water filtration
equipment, etc.). They do not include variable connection costs for materials
or labor or specialty contracting services. Listed below are the fees. The
sewer availability fee is equal to the total water availability fee.
      (1)   Residential connections. Residential availability fees are as
follows:
 
Type of New Physical Service Connection/Water Only                Availability
                                                                  Fee
Single-family dwelling (per dwelling)                             $600.00
   Type of New Physical Service Connection/Water Only          Availability
                                                                  Fee
Duplex dwelling, 2-family building, separate water meter          $300.00/unit
Multi-family dwellings (more than 2 units/separate meter):        $250.00/unit
   Condominiums, townhouses, apartments and the like, per unit
Mobile homes (only where existing mobile home exists):            $600.00
   Single home, single lot
Mobile home park (per space) (existing mobile homes only)         $250.00
 
      (2)   Commercial and industrial rates.  
 
Business, commercial, industrial, institutional/water only $600.00
 
   (B)   New account administrative fee. There will be an administrative fee
for establishing a new utility account (see Treasurer for current fee
schedule). This fee shall be paid by a new customer requiring water or sewer
service. This cost is charged to offset expenses to the town for inspecting the
meter box, obtaining the initial meter reading, establishing a new billing
account in the utility billing system and actually turning water service on. An
administrative fee shall be assessed for transferring an account from one
property to another property, or for switching an inactive account back to
active, or for a prior account holder in good standing who needs to re-
establish service in town (“good standing” means no delinquent water or sewer
debts from prior service) (see Treasurer for current fee schedule).
      (1)   To open a new account, the town requires current, valid,
identification, and proof that the person wishing to open the new account is
the person who will be living at the structure being served by the utility
services (lease, deed, electric bill, internet, phone, cable bill etc.). In
special and unique situations where the person living at the location being
served by the utilities is not capable due to physical, financial, or mental
limitations, a new account may be opened if an authorized person places the
service in their own name and agrees to be designated as the responsible person
managing the utility services account and is personally liable for all water
account charges, fees, penalties, costs of collections.
      (2)   No new account will be opened at any location in town, by any other
person, when that same location already has an existing account. This is to
prevent intent to defraud the town and is especially necessary when the
existing account holder has a past due balance that has not been paid.
      (3)   Additionally, no new account will be opened in the name of another
person who is also a resident at the same location where an active water and/or
sewer account already exists.
   (C)   Reconnection fee. The reconnection fee of not less than $50.00 shall
be paid by existing customer requiring water service reconnection, after
service has been discontinued for nonpayment of the account.
   (D)   Inactive account fee. 
      (1)   An inactive account fee shall be paid by the account owner to
offset the cost of providing capacity which is not being utilized, meter
maintenance, and maintenance of underground mainlines servicing the property.
This charge is applicable for all utility services, water or sewer (see
Treasurer for current fee schedule).
      (2)   An inactive account is an account which has remained unused for
more than 4 months, no usage or consumption recorded at the meter. The town can
place such accounts on the inactive list. The account holder will not be billed
at the current minimum monthly water use charge, but will instead be charged
the lesser inactive fee amount per month (see Treasurer). An account holder
though may request to place their account on inactive status at any time for
example an extended period of time when the account holder will not be
occupying the structure.
(1997 Code, § 70-32) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.03 METERED RATES; WATER RATE SCHEDULE.
    Water service rates shall be periodically set by the Town Council, and
shall be available for public inspection at the town office during regular
business hours. (See Treasurer).
(1997 Code, § 70-33) (Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.04 METERED RATES; SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)    Sewer service rates shall be periodically set by the Town Council,
and shall be available for public inspection at the town office during regular
business hours. (See Treasurer).
   (B)   When connection involves only sewer service, the sewer rate shall be
based upon the current minimum monthly sewer fee paid by all account holders. A
deposit up to 6 months of sewer charges may be required prior to opening as
sewer only account.
   (C)   If sewer bill is not paid when due and the account becomes delinquent,
the Public Works Department is authorized to install a cap or plug in the
wastewater/sewer discharge line at the main to prevent further discharge of
waste into the public sewer system.
(1997 Code, § 70-34) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.05 BILLING POLICY.
    Fees and charges for water and sewer services provided to a tenant or
lessee of the property owner.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of law, general or special, the
provisions of this section apply to any locality or authority, as such term is
defined in VA Code § 15.2-5101.
   (B)   (1)   The Town of Brookneal, when providing water or sewer services to
a lessee or tenant of the property owner shall do so directly to the tenant
after:
         (a)   Obtaining from the property owner a written or electronic
authorization to obtain water and sewer services in the name of such lessee or
tenant; and
         (b)   The town shall use the lien rights afforded under VA Code §
15.2-2119(G), collecting a security deposit from the lessee or tenant as
reasonably determined by the locality to be sufficient to collateralize the
locality or authority for 5 months of water and sewer charges.
      (2)   When the property owner has provided the lessee or tenant with
written authorization to obtain water and sewer services in the name of such
lessee or tenant, nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the town to
require:
         (a)   The property owner to put water and sewer services in the name
of such property owner, except in the case where a single meter serves multiple
tenant units; or
         (b)   A security deposit or a guarantee of payment from such property
owner.
   (C)   (1)   The property owner may open, or activate a new utility service
account in their own name on behalf of the tenant if so desired so long as the
property owner does not owe the town money for any other delinquent utility
accounts also in the name of the property owner. If this election is made by
the property owner (in order to help their tenant get utility services
activated) and under their own volition as the case may be, the property owner
becomes responsible for the costs of utility services.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a written or electronic authorization
from the property owner to obtain water and sewer services in the name of such
lessee or tenant substantially in the form as follows, or a copy of the lease
or rental agreement, shall be sufficient compliance with this section:
DATE:
[Town of Brookneal Municipal Water and Sewer Service 215 Main St. Brookneal VA
24528]
RE: [INSERT FULL TENANT NAME AND ADDRESS]
                                                                              
To Whom It May Concern:
[INSERT TENANT NAME] has entered into a lease for the property located at:
                                                                              
[INSERT ADDRESS]
                                                                              
and is authorized to obtain services at this address as a tenant of [INSERT
PROPERTY OWNER NAME]
                                                                              
Signed:
PROPERTY OWNER: I hereby acknowledge the Town of Brookneal in accordance with
local and state law has the power and authority to attach a lien to my real
estate for up to three months delinquent water and/or sewer charges accrued by
my tenant(s). I understand that if a lien is placed on my real estate, and
after reasonable collection efforts have been undertaken, the Town of Brookneal
may refuse water service to any subsequent tenant until all past due fees,
charges, collection expenses etc. have been paid in full and the lien has been
removed.
   (D)   (1)   If the fees and charges charged for water service or the use and
services of the sewage disposal system by or in connection with any real estate
are not paid when due, (first business day of each month), a penalty and
interest shall be owed, as provided for by general law by the lessee or tenant
and will be charged by the Treasurer to the account holder on the 16th calendar
day of each month, or next business day if the 16th falls on a holiday or
weekend.
      (2)   If such lessee or tenant does not pay the full amount of charges,
penalty, and interest for water provided or cease such disposal within 30 days
after the due date (the first day of each month), the locality, (Town of
Brookneal), shall notify such lessee or tenant of the delinquency. A copy of
the delinquency notice may also be communicated by appropriate means to the
property owner.
      (3)   This notice of delinquency shall also state the date of service
termination should the outstanding amounts owed to the town not be paid by the
service termination (cut-off date). This notice shall satisfy the 10 business
day requirement prior to service termination.
      (4)   If such lessee or tenant does not pay the full amount of charges,
penalty, and interest for water provided or cease such disposal within 60 days
after the due date, the Town of Brookneal may cease supplying water and sewage
disposal services (service will be termination/cut-off).
   (E)   (1)   If the lessee or tenant does not pay the full amount of charges,
penalty, and interest for water or the use and services of the sewage disposal
system in a timely manner as set out herein, in addition to cessation of such
service, the Town of Brookneal shall employ reasonable collection efforts and
practices to collect amounts due from the lessee or tenant prior to sending
written notice to, or taking any collection or legal action against, the
property owner regarding the delinquency of payment of such lessee or tenant.
Costs of collection up to 20% of the outstanding charges may be added to any
unpaid amounts.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, "reasonable collection efforts
and practices" include:
         (a)   Applying the security deposit paid by the lessee or tenant to
the payment of the outstanding balance; and
         (b)   Either filing for the Setoff Debt Collection Program (VA Code §
58.1-520 et seq.) or placing the account with a debt collection service.
   (F)   Only after the town has taken the reasonable collection efforts set
forth in VA Code § 15.2-2119(E) and practices to collect such fees and charges
from the lessee or tenant may the town proceed to notify the property owner of
such outstanding lien obligation of such lessee or tenant and thereafter to
record a lien against the property owner by using the lien recordation and
release of lien processes as set out in VA Code § 15.2-2119 and only after
notice to the property owner as required in VA Code § 15.2-2119. Such a lien,
up to 3 months of delinquent water and sewer charges, shall constitute a lien
against the property ranking on a parity with liens for unpaid taxes.
   (G)   If a lien is recorded against the property owner and the property
owner pays any of the delinquent obligations of such former lessee or tenant,
upon payment of the outstanding balance, or any portion thereof, or of any
amounts of such fees and charges owed by the former tenant, the property owner
shall be entitled to receive any refunds and shall be subrogated against the
former tenant in place of the locality or authority in the amount paid by the
property owner. The locality or authority shall execute all documents necessary
to perfect such subrogation in favor of the property owner. (Example: tenant
fails to pay bill; town places lien on property; property owner pays tenant's
outstanding bill; later the town through whatever collection activities are
implemented does in fact collect from the tenant; the town must refund the
property owner's money paid to cover the delinquent account)... (the town
cannot collect twice on the same debt.)
   (H)   Unless a lien has been recorded against the property owner, the
locality or authority shall not deny service to a new tenant who is requesting
service at a particular property address based upon the fact that a former
tenant has not paid any outstanding fees and charges charged for the use and
services in the name of the former previous tenant.
   (I)   In addition, the town shall provide information relative to a former
tenant or current tenant to the property owner upon request of the property
owner. If the property owner provides the town a request to be notified of a
tenant's delinquent water or sewer bill and provides an email address, the town
shall send the property owner notice when a tenant's water or sewer bill has
become 30 days delinquent.
   (J)   The town shall not require a security deposit from the lessee or
tenant to obtain water and sewer services in the name of such lessee or tenant
if such lessee or tenant presents to the locality or authority a landlord
authorization letter that has attached documentation showing that such lessee
or tenant receives need-based local, state, or federal rental assistance, and
the absence of a security deposit shall not prevent a locality from exercising
its lien rights as authorized under this section. All other provisions of this
section shall apply.
   (K)   Service disconnect.
      (1)   (a)   Payment in full for utility bills are due and must be
received in the Treasurer's office by 5:00 p.m. on the cut-off day in order to
be paid prior to cut-off.
         (b)   At 5:00 p.m. on the cut-off day, town officials begin water cut-
offs.
         (c)   Town officials conducting cut-off duties are not obligated to
accept payment of bills while out in the field.
         (d)   If paying by mail, the check must be received in the town office
before 5:00 p.m. on the cut-off date. The town will not accept postmarked mail
containing utility payment checks after 5:00 p.m. on cut-off day.
         (e)   If paying by online, or telephone payment system, your payment
must be placed prior to 5:00 p.m. on the cut-off date. Any payments made after
5:00 p.m. are considered late and utility service will be terminated due to
non-payment.
         (f)   If service is terminated because of non-payment the account
holder may visit the town office the following day, or any day the town office
is open thereafter to take care of the matter.
         (g)   Only town officials are authorized to access water meters to
turn service on or off; any tampering with a meter is a criminal offense and
will be prosecuted as outlined elsewhere in town code.
      (2)   (a)   Within 15 days from the issue date of the bill, if any
account holder disputes the correctness of their bill, the account holder shall
have a right to a timely hearing. When a hearing is scheduled, the account
holder may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of their
choosing and may present orally or in writing their dispute to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's dispute.
         (b)   Billing disputes shall not be for the purpose of requesting
delays or waivers of payment; only questions or disputes related to proper and
correct billing will be considered. In the absence of payment of the bill
rendered or resorting to the hearing procedure provided herein to determine if
a billing adjustment needs to be made, service will be discontinued at the time
specified.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with the current
reconnection fee, and the deposit must be restored to its full amount in cases
where the town had to use deposit money to cover unpaid utility charges.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.06 USE OF SERVICE AND BILLING DATE.
   New service applicants are expected to begin use of water within 30 days of
the date from which the service is made available. Therefore, billing will
commence at the end of this 30-day period in accordance with prescribed rates,
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter and set forth in town
ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 70-36) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.07 OUT-OF-TOWN RATES.
    This section is not applicable.
(1997 Code, § 70-37) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.08 CHARGES DUE AND PAYABLE UPON VACATION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Whenever any premises are vacated, all water and sewer charges to date
will be immediately due and payable by the account holder. The account holder
must state the day for services to be terminated and must provide the town with
a forwarding address for the sending of any final or outstanding charges.
Unless the account holder is deceased, hospitalized, or some other rare and
unique circumstance exists, the account holder is the only person authorized to
terminate services and no one else. If the account holder is not able to
contact the town directly, and any other agent acting on behalf of the account
holder intercedes, such intercessor shall provide properly authorized
documentation stating the account holder has designated such intercessor as
their duly appointed representative.
   (B)   Documentation such as a notarized statement, power of attorney, estate
executor, last will and testament, terminated lease agreement, etc. will be
accepted. Utility services will not be terminated on any account based solely
on hearsay. No new accounts will be established in another person's name until
the current account has been properly closed as stated herein.
   (C)   To reduce the occurrence of utilities fraud and uncollectable debts,
service at rental property shall be activated in the name of only 1 person
named on the lease. No new account will be established to place utility
services in the name of another person who is also a resident at the same
address as the account holder or in the name of another person who lives
someplace else other than the service location.
(1997 Code, § 70-38) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 50.09 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   When connection involves only sewer service to a house or to a
building, and even if more than 1 family or tenant is served by the sewer
connection, the property owner shall be responsible for payment of all charges
for sewer service upon the rates set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Water/sewer bills are not pro-rated each month. For example: If a
customer wants to terminate water service and not go into a new billing cycle,
the customer must notify the town no later than the day of the month that water
meters are read by town staff, usually on or about the 19th or 20th of each
month.
   (C)   Water billed on each month’s invoice is not for water used from the
first day of each month to the last day of each month.
   (D)   In order for the town to read, audit, verify, print and mail the water
bills by the first day of each new month, the water meters must be read usually
ten days prior to the first day of each month. The 10 days gives our
administrative staff time to process all of the meter readings and calculate
the billing amount for each customer.
   (E)   In reality, when a customer pays their water bill for a 30/31 day
consumption period, they are paying for water that was used between the 19th or
20th of the prior month, through the 19th or 20th of the current month.
Example: Customer gets their water bill in the mail on or near September 1. The
charges on that bill are actually from July 20 through August 20.
   (F)   If a tenant leaves their rental property for example on the last day
of any given month, a final water bill will still be owed by the tenant because
a new metering/billing cycle began back on or about the 20th day of the prior
month.
   (G)   When a tenant leaves at the end of a month, that means the tenant has
already consumed water in a new billing period, usually about 10 days of
consumption (19th or 20th day of current month to the last day of the same
month when tenants usually leave the rental property).
   (H)   Since the town does not pro-rate water/sewer bills, the tenant even
though they left the last day of the month, the tenant is still 10 days into a
new billing cycle and therefor the final bill is due and payable at the then
current minimum monthly billing rate.
   (I)   If water/sewer service is terminated because of non-payment, the
security deposit will be applied to the amount owed to the town.
   (J)   The full amount of the initial deposit must be maintained by the
account holder at all times.
   (K)   If the bill is not paid for any amounts up to, or in excess of the
deposit amount, the water/sewer service will not be restored until the required
deposit is fully restored and any other outstanding balance plus penalties plus
interest plus the reconnect fee have been paid.
   (L)   All deposits are held from the date the account is activated, until
the date the account is closed.
   (M)   When an active account is properly closed any remaining deposit after
past due bills, final bills, and/or any other charges have been paid in full,
will be returned to the customer in the form of a town issued check within 30
days of account closure.
   (N)   No interest is payable to account holders for required amounts held in
deposit by the town.
(1997 Code, § 70-39) (Ord. passed 8-17-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Health and Sanitation; General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
   
51.15   Collection schedule
   
51.16   Disposal fees
   
51.17   Damaging, molesting or interfering with containers
   
51.18   Disposal of refuse
   
51.19   Prohibited materials
   
51.20   Dumpster policy
Condition of Premises
   
51.30   Accumulations on premises or vacant lots prohibited
   
51.31   Removal by owners or by town
Charter reference:
   Police powers, see §
18
Statutory reference:
   Inspection warrant for inspecting or testing for toxic substances, see VA
Code, §§ 19.2-393 et seq.
   Local contracts for the supply of solid waste to resource recovery
facilities, see VA Code, § 10.1-1412
   Local recycling and waste disposal, see VA Code, § 15.2-923
   Municipal garbage and refuse disposal, see VA Code, § 15.2-927
   Prohibiting placement of leaves or grass clippings in landfills, see VA
Code, § 15.2-935
   Regulation of garbage and refuse pickup and disposal services, certain local
contracts for such services, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-931, 15.2-932, 15.2-930
   Removal of trash, garbage, weeds and the like, see VA Code, § 15.2-901
   Separation of solid waste, see VA Code, § 15.2-937
   Solid waste management facility siting approval, see VA Code, § 15.2-929
HEALTH AND SANITATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible material.
   CONTAINER. A lightweight galvanized metal, rubber or plastic container
having a capacity of not more than 30 gallons and not less than 10 gallons and
measure not over 22 inches in diameter and 30 inches in height, equipped with
handles and provided with a cover that will fit so as to prevent the emission
of odors, the gathering of insects, the blowing of contents and interference by
dogs or other animals.
   DISPOSAL. The storage, collection, disposal or handling of refuse.
   FILTH.  Any unwholesome substance, offal, litter, including human and animal
waste.
   GARBAGE.  Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
   REFUSE. All solid waste, except body waste, and shall include garbage,
ashes, rubbish, filth and trash.
   RUBBISH. Glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood, nonputrescible solid
waste, or as determined by the Council.
   TRASH. Debris and litter.
(1997 Code, § 38-1)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   The Town Manager is hereby vested with the duty of preparing a schedule for
the collection of refuse, providing for collection at least once each week in
all sections of the town. The schedule is available to anyone requesting a
copy.
(1997 Code, § 38-31)
§ 51.16 DISPOSAL FEES.
   All refuse disposal fees and rates shall be as set from time to time by
resolution of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 38-32)
§ 51.17 DAMAGING, MOLESTING OR INTERFERING WITH CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor for anyone to
damage, molest or otherwise interfere with garbage containers or the contents
of garbage containers placed for collection.
(1997 Code, § 38-33) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 51.18 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, burn, bury, destroy or
otherwise dispose of any refuse anywhere in the town, except in a lawfully
established refuse dump, or in accordance with the requirements of the Virginia
Uniform Statewide Building Code and the State Department of Environmental
Quality; and except the burning of leaves from yards, provided that all laws in
connection with burning are complied with and provided no burning is done on
street surfaces.
   (B)   This material, when not properly disposed of, shall be placed in
containers for collection by the town in the following manner:
      (1)   The containers shall be placed adjacent to alley or sidewalk on the
normally traveled garbage collection route. Multiple cans under 1 ownership
shall be placed together and accessible for convenient pickup;
      (2)   Business establishments shall place containers to the rear of their
establishments, on scheduled collection days, except on holidays;
      (3)   All containers from residences shall be placed adjacent to the
street, sidewalk or alley, as the case may be, on the day on which collection
is scheduled to be made, and empty containers shall be removed from the
sidewalk during the same day on which collections are made;
      (4)   Containers shall not be placed so as to interfere with traffic,
foot, vehicular or otherwise;
      (5)   All refuse shall be drained free of liquids before placing in the
container;
      (6)   All cans, bottles or other food containers shall be rinsed free of
liquids before placing in the container;
      (7)   Rubbish shall be either placed in approved containers or cut and
stacked, or packaged in bundles not exceeding 5 feet in length and not
exceeding 50 pounds in weight, and shall be made compact by packing small units
into large units. Rubbish placed in approved containers will be collected on
regular collections, but all other rubbish from residences will be collected
only by contact with the town office;
      (8)   Containers shall be kept clean by a thorough rinsing and draining
as often as necessary to prevent the accumulation or residue of material on the
bottom or sides of the containers; and
      (9)   The total weight of the container and its contents shall not exceed
50 pounds.
(1997 Code, § 38-34) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 51.19 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   No large rocks, logs, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than 5 feet in length,
waste building materials, or any kind of material from structures under
construction, being reconstructed or recently completed will be collected by
the town, and the placing of this refuse for collection shall be and is hereby
prohibited.
(1997 Code, § 38-35) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 51.20 DUMPSTER POLICY.
   (A)   Patrons exceeding 4 cubic yards of total waste or unable to subscribe
to §§
51.18 and
51.19 may be required to employ dumpsters. The policy and requirements for
dumpster patrons are as follows:
      (1)   For the purpose of garbage pickup service to businesses using the
dumpster form of garbage containers, referred to in this subchapter as “garbage
containers” or “containers,” the following types of containers are available:
4-yard containers, 6-yard containers and 8-yard containers. Approved garbage
containers are available at cost from the town. Businesses desiring to purchase
their own containers shall check with the town to determine if the garbage
containers selected are approved for pickup service.
      (2)   The town will provide free garbage pickup service twice weekly
during weekdays. Should the regular garbage pickup be interrupted because of a
holiday, garbage pickup will be on the following regular weekday. Service
recipients will be notified of any changes in scheduling regular garbage
pickup. Pickup service in excess of twice weekly will be available at a fee
established by the Council from time to time.
      (3)   Garbage containers will be situated in a suitable and accessible
location permitting ease in pickup service by the town. Garbage containers will
be situated on a graveled, paved or concrete surface which is capable of
supporting the garbage containers and which meets a proper and true height
requirement for pickup service. Containers shall be placed at the rear of the
establishment or, when not applicable, shall be fenced or screened.
      (4)   Maintenance, upkeep and replacement of garbage containers are the
responsibility of the service recipient. The town assumes no responsibility or
liability associated with the storage or use of garbage containers and is held
harmless of any incidences of accidental injury or illness of any persons
involving garbage containers. Containers will be maintained by the service
recipient in accordance with any Health Department rules or regulations, and
will, at the request of the town, provide for any maintenance, upkeep or
replacement of garbage containers. Repair or replacement of containers may be
provided by the town at the request of the service recipient; however, the
service is subject to cost for repair or replacement.
      (5)   Garbage containers will contain only garbage, trash or debris which
can be easily compacted by a garbage truck and will not contain any metal, wood
or plastic materials greater than 2 feet in length, width or depth which might
interfere in the loading or compacting. Cardboard boxes shall be broken down in
order to permit the full loading capacity of garbage containers and in order to
provide ease in unloading containers. No garbage, trash or debris will be
picked up that is not contained in a garbage container. Service recipients
shall evaluate the need of additional containers should this situation occur.
Service recipients will not permit any garbage, trash or debris to be placed in
containers by another person.
      (6)   This section, and any portion of this section, is subject to change
by the town. Service recipients will be notified of policy changes in advance
of implementing the policy changes.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term BUSINESSES means noninstitutional or
industrial patrons generating less than 40 cubic yards per week.
(1997 Code, § 38-36)
CONDITION OF PREMISES
§ 51.30 ACCUMULATIONS ON PREMISES OR VACANT LOTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trash, garbage, refuse,
machinery, appliances, abandoned vehicles, filth, obnoxious or offensive matter
or thing whatsoever to accumulate upon his or her premises or any vacant lot in
the town.
(1997 Code, § 38-56) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 51.31 REMOVAL BY OWNERS OR BY TOWN.
   (A)   Removal by owners; failure; removal by town; charges; lien;
collection.  The owners of any property within the town shall remove trash,
garbage, refuse, filth and other substances which might endanger the health of
other residents of the town from the property at intervals to be designated by
the Town Council, and upon their failure to do so the Town Manager may have the
trash, garbage and the like removed and may charge the owner with the cost of
the removal. Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of
the property shall have been assessed, which remains unpaid, shall constitute a
lien against the property and may be collected by the town as taxes and levies
are collected.
   (B)   Notice to owner; failure to remove; additional notice containing
deadline; removal by Manager; costs. Reasonable notice of the date fixed by the
Council for the removal of the trash, garbage and the like shall be given by
newspaper publication, mail or by delivery of a written notice to each property
owner. Upon the failure of the property owner to remove the trash, garbage and
the like by the date fixed, the Town Manager shall notify the property owner by
certified mail that he or she has 15 days from the date of the notice to remove
the trash, garbage and the like and that upon his or her failure to so remove
the same the Town Manager shall have the same removed and shall charge the
costs to the owner.
   (C)   Bill for costs after removal; failure to pay; perfection of lien;
recording of lien; collection procedures. Upon the completion of the removal
the Town Manager shall send by certified mail to the owner a bill for the costs
of the removal, with the notation thereon that the charges are collectible by
the town as taxes and levies, and that failure to pay the bill within 60 days
of the date of the bill will result in a lien being perfected against the
property and the institution of other collection procedures. Upon the owner’s
failure to pay the bill by the date set thereon the Town Manager shall perfect
the lien by recording the lien in the Clerk’s office of the County Circuit
Court and may, pursuant to law, institute collection procedures as he or she
may deem necessary.
(1997 Code, § 38-57)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of trash, garbage and the like from property, see VA Code, § 15.2-
901
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Charges
   
52.02   Installation of supply lines and connections where not previously
installed
   
52.03   Individual meters to be established for each family or tenant
   
52.04   Tampering with meters
   
52.05   Water system required; specifications to be approved by Health
Department
   
52.06   Permit required for construction, maintenance or repair of water system
   
52.07   Connection to public water lines required
Water Supply Drought Conditions
   
52.15   Authority to declare water emergencies
   
52.16   Publication of declaration
   
52.17   Water use considerations
   
52.18   Limitation of restrictions
   
52.19   Water conservation measures
   
52.20   Notification of end of water emergency
 
   
52.99   Penalty and enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CHARGES.
   The water charge will be in accordance with
Chapter 50.
(1997 Code, § 70-61) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 52.02 INSTALLATION OF SUPPLY LINES AND CONNECTIONS WHERE NOT PREVIOUSLY
INSTALLED.
   In any case where public water supply lines or water connections have not
been previously installed for the services in question, the lines and
connections will be installed after compliance with the procedures described in
§ 50.01.
(1997 Code, § 70-62) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 52.03 INDIVIDUAL METERS TO BE ESTABLISHED FOR EACH FAMILY OR TENANT.
   All houses, buildings and establishments that are connected to the public
water supply lines will have an individual, separate meter for 1 or more
families or tenants.
(1997 Code, § 70-63) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 52.04 TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the town authorities
to open, close or tamper with any water supply stop valve or water meter used
in connection with the town’s water system.
(1997 Code, § 70-64) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 52.05 WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS TO BE APPROVED BY HEALTH
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Every house used as a human habitation, every warehouse, every public
building, every recreation or tourist camp, transient lodging house, or other
place where human beings congregate, or are employed in the town, will be
provided by the owner with a water system for human consumption.
   (B)   A water system will be built, maintained, repaired and replaced in
accordance with specifications approved by the County Health Department. A
water system will mean water source, distribution and transmission lines,
facilities, and equipment in or by means of which water is made available for
human consumption.
(1997 Code, § 70-65) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 52.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR OF WATER
SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or repair a water
system in the town without first obtaining a permit from the County Health
Department.
(1997 Code, § 70-66) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 52.07 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER LINES REQUIRED.
   Every house or building used as a human habitation which abuts on a street
or an alley in which there are public water lines, or is within 200 feet of a
public water line, will be connected with water by the owner of the premises in
the most direct manner prescribed by the Director of Public Works, and with a
separate connection for each house or building and with a separate connection
for each tenant or family.
(1997 Code, § 70-67) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
WATER SUPPLY DROUGHT CONDITIONS
§ 52.15 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE WATER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   During the continued existence of climatic, hydrological and other
extraordinary conditions the protection of the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the Town of Brookneal may require that certain uses of water,
not essential to public health, safety and welfare, be reduced, restricted or
curtailed. As the shortage of raw or potable water becomes increasingly more
critical, conservation measures to reduce consumption or curtail nonessential
water use may be necessary.
   (B)   The Town Manager or Mayor is authorized to declare a water emergency
in the town restricting the use of water in any area of the town. All water
stages are built upon and require compliance with previous water stages. For
example when a drought emergency is declared all provisions of a drought
warning are in effect. Also the Town Manager or Mayor may declare any of the 3
stages; they do not have to be declared sequentially.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 52.16 PUBLICATION OF DECLARATION.
   Upon the declaration of a water emergency, the Town Manager or Mayor shall
immediately post a written notice of the emergency at the front door of the
town hall and shall place a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
area in which such emergency has been declared and shall have declaration
posted on town website.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 52.17 WATER USE CONSIDERATIONS.
   Upon the declaration of a water shortage or emergency, the Town Manager or
Mayor is authorized and directed to implement conservation measures by ordering
the restricted use or absolute curtailment of the use of water for certain
nonessential purposes for the duration of the water shortage or emergency in
the manner hereinafter set out. In exercising this discretionary authority, and
making the determinations set forth hereof, the Town Manager or Mayor shall
give due consideration to water levels, available/usable storage on hand, draw
down rates and the projected supply capability; system purification and pumping
capacity; daily water consumption and consumption projections of the system's
customers; prevailing and forecast weather conditions; fire service
requirements; pipeline conditions including breakages, stoppages and leaks;
supplementary source data; estimates of minimum essential supplies to preserve
public health and safety and such other data pertinent to the past, current and
projected water demands.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 52.18 LIMITATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any governmental
activity, institution, business or industry which shall be declared by the Town
Manager or Mayor, upon a proper showing, to be necessary for the public health,
safety and welfare or the prevention of severe economic hardship or the
substantial loss of employment. Any activity, institution, business or industry
aggrieved by the finding of the Town Manager or Mayor may appeal that decision
to the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 52.19 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon a determination by the Town Manager or Mayor of the existence of the
following conditions, the Town Manager or Mayor shall take the following
actions that shall apply to any person whose water supply is furnished from the
public water system:
   (A)   Drought watch. When moderate but limited supplies of water are
available and a drought watch is declared in accordance with the Drought
Response and Contingency Plan, the Town Manager or Mayor shall, through
appropriate means, call upon the general population to employ prudent restraint
in water usage, and to conserve water voluntarily by whatever methods
available.
   (B)   Drought warning. When very limited supplies of water are available and
a drought warning is declared in accordance with the Drought Response and
Contingency Plan, the Town Manager or Mayor shall order curtailment of less
essential usages of water, including, but not limited to, 1 or more of the
following:
      (1)   The watering of shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, plants, or any
other vegetation, except indoor plantings, greenhouse or nursery stocks and
except limited watering for new lawns and watering by commercial nurseries of
freshly planted plants upon planting and once a week for 5 weeks following
planting. Athletic fields are also exempt but shall only be watered to match
the evaporation-transpiration rate. In all cases where the above exceptions
apply, the watering is not to occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. Watering with buckets that have a capacity of 5 or fewer gallons is
permitted at any time.
      (2)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, buses,
airplanes, or any other type of mobile equipment, except in facilities
operating with a water recycling system. The facility shall post a notice in
public view that a recycling system is in operation. Exceptions are for vactor
trucks, refuse trucks, septage haulers and buses. Other exceptions must be
approved by the director of utilities or a designee and be demonstrated to be
necessary for health and safety purposes.
      (3)   The washing of sidewalks, streets, driveways, parking lots, service
stations aprons, office buildings, exteriors of homes or apartments, or other
outdoor surfaces, unless the use is approved by the director of utilities for
health and safety.
      (4)   The operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making
a similar use of water.
      (5)   The use of water from fire hydrants for any purpose other than fire
suppression unless the use has been approved by the town.
      (6)   Water service lines from the meter box to the home or structure
shall be maintained and have no visible leaks.
      (7)   Restaurants may serve water to customers only upon request.
   (C)   Drought emergency. When a drought emergency is declared in accordance
with the Drought Response and Contingency Plan, the Town Manager or Mayor shall
restrict the use of water to purposes which are absolutely essential to life,
health and safety.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 NOTIFICATION OF END OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   The Town Manager or Mayor shall notify the Town Council when, in their
opinion, the water emergency situation no longer exists. Upon concurrence of
the Town Council, the water emergency shall be declared to have ended. When
this declaration is made, the information shall be conveyed to the general
public through the news media.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 52.99 PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.20 shall be subject to the following civil penalties:
      (1)   For the first offense, violators shall receive a written warning
delivered in person or posted by a representative of the town.
      (2)   For the second offense, violators shall be fined $50.00, the fine
to be imposed on the violator's next water bill, or in the case of violators
not on the public water system, in a written notice.
      (3)   For the third and each subsequent offense, violators shall be fined
$100.00 for each offense, the fine to be imposed on the violator's next water
bill, or in the case of violators not on the public water system, in a written
notice.
      (4)   Each violation by a person shall be counted as a separate violation
by that person, irrespective of the location at which the violation occurs.
      (5)   The Town Manager or Mayor may suspend water service to any person
continuing to violate the provisions of this subchapter or the regulations
promulgated thereunder. If such water service is terminated, the person shall
pay a reconnection fee of $50.00 before service is restored.
   (B)   Persons who have been assessed a penalty shall have the right to
challenge the assessment by providing a written notice to the Town Manager or
Mayor within 10 days of the date of the assessment of the penalty. The Town
Manager or Mayor or their designee shall determine whether the penalty was
properly assessed and notify the complaining person in writing of his
determination.
   (C)   The Town Manager or Mayor or their designee may waive the penalty if
determined that the violation occurred due to no fault of the person.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 53: SEWAGE
Section
   
53.01   Sanitary devices required; specifications to be approved by County
Health Department
   
53.02   Disposal of human or livestock excreta; facilities
   
53.03   Excreta on ground or any place endangering water or attracting flies
and other animals
   
53.04   Connection to public sanitary sewer required
   
53.05   Construction, maintenance or repair of septic tanks and privies; permit
required; inspection
   
53.06   Prohibited discharges in public sewer
   
53.07   Sewer charges
   
53.08   Installation of sewer lines and connections where not previously
installed
   
53.09   Connection of groundwater to building sewers
§ 53.01 SANITARY DEVICES REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS TO BE APPROVED BY COUNTY
HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Every house used as a human habitation, every warehouse, every public
building, every recreation or tourist camp, transient lodging house, or other
place where human beings congregate or are employed in the town will be
provided by the owner with a sanitary device.
   (B)   A sanitary device will be built in accordance with specifications
approved by the County Health Department. A sanitary device will mean toilets,
privies, drains, systems, facilities, septic tank or equipment used for the
catchment, transfer, storage, treatment, discharge or disposal of human
excreta.
(1997 Code, § 70-91) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 53.02 DISPOSAL OF HUMAN OR LIVESTOCK EXCRETA; FACILITIES.
   No person will construct, maintain or permit on any premises owned by him or
her facilities for the disposal of human or livestock excreta which may
possibly endanger any source of drinking water, or which may allow flies or
other animals to have access to the excreta.
(1997 Code, § 70-92) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 53.03 EXCRETA ON GROUND OR ANY PLACE ENDANGERING WATER OR ATTRACTING FLIES
AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   No person will deposit any human or livestock excreta upon the surface of
the ground or in any place where it may endanger any source of drinking water
or which may allow flies or other animals to have access to the excreta.
(1997 Code, § 70-93) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 53.04 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   Every house or building used as a human habitat which abuts on a street or
an alley in which there is a public sanitary sewer, or is within 200 feet of a
public sanitary sewer, will be connected with a sewer by the owner of the
premises in the most direct manner prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
There shall be a separate connection for each house or building and a separate
connection for each tenant or family.
(1997 Code, § 70-94) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 53.05 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR OF SEPTIC TANKS AND PRIVIES; PERMIT
REQUIRED; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or repair a
septic tank or privy in the town without first obtaining a permit from the
County Health Department. The County Health Department will decide the capacity
and design and will approve the location of the septic tank and drainfield,
subject to any and all subdivision ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Septic tanks or privies will be inspected by the County Health
Department and will be approved before they are permitted to be covered or
used.
(1997 Code, § 70-95) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 53.06 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES IN PUBLIC SEWER.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person or corporation will
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150º Fahrenheit;
   (B)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million,
by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle these
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (J)   Any discharge from septic tank trucks containing matter taken from
septic tanks;
   (K)   Any dye or dye materials of sufficient amount to materially prevent
penetration of sunlight, thereby causing interference with the operation of the
sewage lagoon; or
   (L)   Any waters or wastes that contain harmful radioactive materials.
(1997 Code, § 70-96) Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 53.07 SEWER CHARGES.
   The sewer charge will be in accordance with
Chapter 50.
(1997 Code, § 70-97) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 53.08 INSTALLATION OF SEWER LINES AND CONNECTIONS WHERE NOT PREVIOUSLY
INSTALLED.
   In any case where public sewer lines or sewer connections have not been
previously installed for the service of the property in question, the lines and
connections will be installed after compliance with the procedures described in
§ 50.01.
(1997 Code, § 70-98) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 53.09 CONNECTION OF GROUNDWATER TO BUILDING SEWERS.
   No persons will maintain, operate or make a connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1997 Code, § 70-99) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of state law
   
70.02   Powers and duties of Mayor relative to traffic and parking
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Mayor relative to stop intersections and yield
intersections
   
70.04   Fees not allowed town police officer
   
70.05   Authority of Fire Department officials to direct traffic
Local Vehicle Licenses
   
70.15   Vehicles required to be licensed -- situs; student owners; exemptions
   
70.16   Assessment of license fee
   
70.17   Amount of fee -- passenger motor vehicles; trucks; motorcycles;
transitional provisions for 2006 license year only
   
70.18   Amount of fee -- other motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, etc.;
transitional provisions for 2006 license year only
   
70.19   Amount of fee -- exemptions and reductions
   
70.20   License fees; disposition
   
70.21   Payment of personal property taxes prerequisite
   
70.22   License year
   
70.23   Failure to pay license fee, personal property tax, etc.; penalty
   
70.24   For-hire license plates
   
70.25   License taxes on owners of certain motor vehicles
Pedestrians
   
70.30   Soliciting rides or business
   
70.31   To obey signs and signals
Charter reference:
   Power of town to regulate traffic and parking, see §
13
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see VA Code, §§ 46.2-1200 et seq.
   General powers of local governments as to motor vehicles, see VA Code, §§
46.2-1300 et seq.
   Identification of handicapped parking spaces by above-grade signage, see VA
Code, § 36-99.11
     Inoperable motor vehicles and the like on residential or commercial
property in certain localities, see VA Code, § 15.2-905
   Limited access streets, see VA Code, § 15.2-2026
   Local vehicle license, see VA Code, §§ 46.2-752 et seq.
   Municipal regulation of traffic, see VA Code, § 15.2-2028
   Parking regulations in cities, towns and certain counties, see VA Code, §
46.2-1220
   Removal or immobilization of motor vehicles against which there are
outstanding parking violations, see VA Code, § 46.2-1216
   Removal of vehicles involved in accidents, see VA Code, § 46.2-1212
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of VA Code, § 46.2-1313, as amended, all of
the provisions and requirements of the laws of the state contained in VA Code,
Title 46.2, §§ 18.2-266, and 18.2-266.1 et seq., as in effect on July 1, 1987,
except those provisions and requirements the violation of which constitutes a
felony, and except those provisions and requirements which by their very nature
can have no application to or within the town, are hereby adopted and
incorporated in this chapter by reference and made applicable within the town.
   (B)   References to “highways of the state” contained in the provisions and
requirements hereby adopted shall be deemed to refer to the streets, highways
and other public ways within the town. These provisions and requirements are
hereby adopted, mutatis mutandis, and made a part of this chapter as fully as
though set forth at length in this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any persons within the town to violate or
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any provision of VA Code, Title 46.2 or
§§ 18.2-266 et seq., which are adopted by this section; provided, however, that
in no event shall the penalty imposed for the violation of any provision or
requirement hereby adopted exceed the penalty imposed for a similar offense
under VA Code, Title 46.2 or §§ 18.2-266 et seq.
(1997 Code, § 66-1) (Ord. passed 12-8-1987) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 70.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR RELATIVE TO TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   (A)   The Mayor, except as otherwise provided by this chapter and except as
otherwise directed from time to time by the Council, shall have the power and
is hereby authorized to regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within
the corporate limits of the town by the erection or placing of proper signs or
markers indicating prohibited or limited parking; angle parking; the parking of
buses, trucks and other vehicles of various weights; U-turns; turning at
intersections; hazardous intersections; school zones; loading and unloading
zones; quiet zones, traffic- control signals exhibiting colored lights; and
other signs or markers indicating the place and manner of operating or parking
vehicles in the town.
   (B)   The Mayor shall also have the power and is hereby authorized to
regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and sidewalks of the town
by the erection or placing of proper signs or markers indicating the flow of
pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   The Mayor shall also have the power to designate bus stops and to
erect signs prohibiting the parking of vehicles other than buses at those
stops.
   (D)   The Mayor is further empowered and authorized to mark off traffic
lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and directing the flow of
traffic.
   (E)   The Mayor shall further have power and is hereby authorized to secure
all the necessary signs, signals or markers to be erected or placed on any
street or part of a street.
   (F)   The existence of these signs, signals or markers at any place within
the corporate limits of the town shall be prima facie evidence that the signs,
signals or markers were erected or placed by and at the direction of the Mayor
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1997 Code, § 66-2)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of local governments as to motor vehicles, see VA Code, §§ 46.2-1300
et seq.
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR RELATIVE TO STOP INTERSECTIONS AND YIELD
INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, except as otherwise provided by this chapter and except as
otherwise directed from time to time by the Council, may designate
intersections, other than intersections at which 1 or more of the intersecting
streets has been designated as a part of the state highway system, at which
vehicles shall come to a full stop or yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   The Mayor shall further have the power and is hereby authorized to
secure all the necessary signs, signals or markers to be erected or placed on
or at any such intersection, so that an ordinarily observant person, who may be
affected by the regulation, may be aware of the regulation.
   (C)   The existence of these signs, signals or markers at any place within
the corporate limits of the town shall be prima facie evidence that the signs,
signals or markers were erected or placed by and at the direction of the Mayor
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1997 Code, § 66-3)
§ 70.04 FEES NOT ALLOWED TOWN POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the Code of Virginia, as amended, to
the contrary, no court in this town shall, in any case in which a fine is
assessed for the violation of any law of this town, or any subdivision of this
town, assess as part of the cost of the case any fee for arrest, or as a
witness, for the benefit of any police officer; nor shall any police officer
receive any such fee. Any police officer who accepts or receives any such fee
shall be subject to the provisions of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   However, these officers are not prohibited from accepting or receiving
rewards.
(1997 Code, § 66-4) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions as to certain state law enforcement officers, see VA
Code, § 46.2-218
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the Fire Department may direct or assist the police in directing
traffic at or in the immediate vicinity of a fire, and while so acting, shall
have all the authority of peace officers.
(1997 Code, § 66-5)
LOCAL VEHICLE LICENSES
§ 70.15 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED -- SITUS; STUDENT OWNERS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person who shall own or lease a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer normally garaged, stored or parked in the town shall pay an annual
town license fee for such vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer as required herein.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   The situs for the imposition of licensing fees under this subchapter
shall in all cases, except as hereinafter provided, be the locality in which
the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer is normally garaged, stored, or
parked. If it cannot be determined where the personal property is normally
garaged, stored, or parked, the situs shall be the domicile of its owner. In
the event the owner of the motor vehicle is a full-time student attending an
institution of higher education, the situs shall be the domicile of such
student, provided the student has presented sufficient evidence that he has
paid a personal property tax on the motor vehicle in his domicile.
   (D)   Reserved.
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   The license fee imposed by this section shall not apply to any vehicle
personally owned or leased, in whole or in part, by a member of the armed
services of the United States on active duty. For the purposes of this section
"the armed services of the United States" includes active duty service with the
regular Armed Forces of the United States or the National Guard or other
reserve component.
   (G)   The Town of Brookneal shall not impose any license fee upon any daily
rental vehicle, as defined in VA Code § 58.1-2401, the rental of which is
subject to the tax imposed by VA Code § 58.1-2402(A)(4).
   (H)   The Town of Brookneal shall not impose a license fee upon any new
resident of the town, previously a resident of Campbell County, who has
previously paid a license fee for the same tax year to Campbell County.
   (I)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(A) and (I), and VA
Code § 46.2-755(C). But see also VA Code §§ 46.2-656, 46.2-657, and 46.2-662.
See also VA Code § 46.2-221.4.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
   Cross-reference: For exemptions and reductions  regarding local licensing
fee, see §
70.19.
§ 70.16 ASSESSMENT OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby assessed to any person owning or leasing a motor
vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer, normally garaged, stored or parked in the
Town of Brookneal on January 1 of each year a Town of Brookneal motor vehicle
license fee.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   The chief of each volunteer fire department and volunteer emergency
rescue squad will prepare and certify a list of active members of his
department or squad who regularly respond to calls or perform other duties for
the department or squad and who reside in the town. The certified list will
include the complete name of each individual, his residence address, and the
identification number, and description of the car owned or leased by such
active member and to be certified for exemption. Each individual so certified
will complete the required application form, submit it to his chief who will
attach all individual applications to the certified listing and submit to the
Treasurer of the town. After reviewing and comparing the certified listing and
applications with the personal property tax rolls, the Treasurer will issue an
exemption certificate to each certified member without charge. No member of a
volunteer rescue squad or volunteer fire department shall be issued an
exemption certificate for more than 1 vehicle free of charge.
   (D)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(A)(4), (A)(5) and (A)
(11).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
   Cross-reference: For related provisions, see § 70.19(G). For provisions
providing that no motor vehicle license shall be issued by the Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles to an owner of a motor vehicle as to which a fee
is required to be paid pursuant to this subchapter qualified under the
provisions of this subchapter to a waiver of that fee until applicant produces
evidence that all currently due and delinquent personal property taxes on the
vehicle to be licensed have been paid, see § 70.21(C).
§ 70.17 AMOUNT OF FEE -- PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES; TRUCKS; MOTORCYCLES;
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR 2006 LICENSE YEAR ONLY.
   (A)   On each and every passenger vehicle and truck there shall be an annual
license fee of $25.00; and on each and every motorcycle, with or without a
sidecar, a license fee of $9.00.
   (B)   The amount of the license fee imposed by the town under this
subchapter shall not be greater than the amount of the license fee imposed by
the Commonwealth on said vehicle.
   (C)   Transitional provisions effective for 2007 license year only.
Notwithstanding the preceding divisions, in order to adjust the amount of the
vehicle license fee for the 2007 license year in recognition of the transition
from the former April 15, 2007 due date for decals to the new December 5, 2006
due date for vehicle license fees, the vehicle license fee for the 2007 license
year only is hereby reduced by 33% such that the fee shall be $10.00 on each
and every passenger vehicle and truck, and is hereby reduced by a corresponding
33% on motorcycles and all other motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, etc.
that are subject to the town license fee. This division shall automatically
expire on or before December 5, 2007 and all annual town vehicle license fees
for the 2008 license year and thereafter shall be imposed at the full amounts
specified in the preceding divisions of this section and such fees shall be
payable on or before December 5 of each year, beginning December 5, 2007.
   (D)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752. For state fees, see
VA Code § 46.2-694, especially subdivisions (1) through (13) of (A).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
   Cross-reference: For exemption for daily rental vehicles, see §
70.15(G) and §
70.19(J) of this Code, as well as VA Code § 46.2-755(C).
§ 70.18 AMOUNT OF FEE -- OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAILERS, SEMITRAILERS, ETC.;
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR 2006 LICENSE YEAR ONLY.
   (A)   Reserved.
   (B)   On each trailer or semitrailer: (i) not designed and used for the
transportation of passengers on the highways of the Commonwealth and (ii)
having a registered gross weight of 1,500 pounds or less, there shall be no
license fee assessed by the Town of Brookneal.
   (C)   In the case of a combination of a truck or tractor truck and a trailer
or semi-trailer, each vehicle constituting a part of such combination shall be
licensed as a separate vehicle and a separate fee shall be assessed therefor.
   (D)   On each and every motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer upon which
well-drilling machinery is attached and which is permanently used solely for
transporting such machinery, there shall be a license fee of $18.00.
   (E)   On each and every bus owned and operated by a person, firm, or
corporation: (1) used or intended to be used for transporting persons to and
from school; or (2) used exclusively for transportation to and from church
school, for the purpose of religious instruction, or to and from church, for
the purpose of divine worship, there shall be a license fee of $27.00.
   (F)   Transitional provisions effective for 2007 license year only.
Notwithstanding the preceding subsections, in order to adjust the amount of the
vehicle license fee for the 2007 license year in recognition of the transition
from the former April 15, 2007 due date for decals to the new December 5, 2006
due date for vehicle license fees, the vehicle license fee for the 2007 license
year only is hereby reduced by 33% such that the fee shall be $10.00 on each
and every passenger vehicle and truck, and is hereby reduced by a corresponding
33% on motorcycles and all other motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, etc.
that are subject to the town license fee. This division shall automatically
expire on or before December 5, 2007 and all annual town vehicle license fees
for the 2008 license year and thereafter shall be imposed at the full amounts
specified in the preceding divisions of this section and such fees shall be
payable on or before December 5 of each year, beginning December 5, 2007.
   (G)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752. See also VA Code §
46.2-694; VA Code § 46.2-694.1, and VA Code § 46.2-700, and VA Code § 46.2-701.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
§ 70.19 AMOUNT OF FEE -- EXEMPTIONS AND REDUCTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as to impose
a license fee upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer when:
      (1)   A similar tax or license fee is imposed by another county, city or
town wherein such motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is normally garaged,
stored or parked;
      (2)   The motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is owned by a nonresident
of the town and is used exclusively for pleasure or personal transportation and
not for hire or for the conduct of any business or occupation other than that
set forth in division (A)(3) of this section;
      (3)   The motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is owned by a nonresident
and is used for transporting into and within the town for sale in person or by
his employees of wood, meats, poultry, fruits, flowers, vegetables, milk,
butter, cream or eggs produced or grown by him, and not purchased by him for
sale;
      (4)   The motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer is owned by an officer
or employee of the Commonwealth of Virginia who is a nonresident of the town
and who uses the vehicle in the performance of his duties for the Commonwealth
under an agreement for such use;
      (5)   The motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer is kept by a dealer or
manufacturer for sale or for sales demonstration; or
      (6)   The motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer is operated by a common
carrier of persons or property operating between cities and towns in this
Commonwealth and not in intracity transportation or between cities and towns on
the one hand and points and places without cities and towns on the other and
not in intra-city transportation;
      (7)   Any vehicle that is exempt under provisions of state law.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   Motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers owned by the Commonwealth,
political subdivisions of the Commonwealth, and regional jail authorities
created pursuant to VA Code §§ 53.1-95.2 et seq. and used solely for
governmental purposes in accordance with the provisions of VA Code § 46.2-750
shall display license plates or decalcomania inscribed either "Official State
Use Only" or "Official Local Government Use Only," respectively, and shall be
subject to a license fee equal to the cost incurred either by the Commonwealth
or by the town, respectively, in the purchase or manufacture of such
decalcomania, but which town fee shall, in no event, exceed the fee imposed by
the state under VA Code § 46.2-750(A); such licensing requirements shall be
subject to exceptions set forth in VA Code § 46.2-750 and VA Code § 46.2-750.1.
   (D)   One motor vehicle, owned and used personally by any recipient of the
Medal of Honor who holds a current state motor vehicle registration card
establishing that he has received Medal of Honor state license plates as
prescribed and limited in VA Code § 46.2-745 or 1 motor vehicle owned and used
personally by the unremarried surviving spouse of such Medal of Honor recipient
shall be exempt from the payment of the license fee levied and imposed by this
subchapter.
   (E)   The fire-fighting trucks, trailers or semitrailers on which
firefighting apparatus is permanently attached, or other vehicles, when any
such vehicle is owned or under exclusive control of a chartered volunteer fire
department in this town shall be exempt from payment of the license fee imposed
by this subchapter, provided that such vehicles comply with all of the
provisions of VA Code § 46.2-649.1:1 and VA Code § 46.2-752(A).
   (F)   Ambulances or other vehicles owned or used exclusively by chartered
volunteer fire departments or volunteer lifesaving or first aid crews or rescue
squads in the town, provided any such vehicle is used exclusively as an
ambulance or lifesaving and first aid vehicle and is not rented, leased, or
lent to any private individual, firm, or corporation, and no charge is made by
the organization for the use of the vehicle, shall be exempt from payment of
the license fee imposed by this subchapter, provided that such vehicles comply
with all of the provisions of VA Code § 46.2-649.1:1 and VA Code § 46.2-752(A).
   (G)   One vehicle owned or leased, and used personally in the performance of
duties by each active member of the volunteer fire departments and volunteer
emergency rescue squads who lives in the town is exempt after proper
certification as indicated in §
70.16.
   (H)   One motor vehicle, owned, and used personally by any veteran who holds
a current state motor vehicle registration card establishing that he has
received a disabled veteran's exemption from the Department of Motor Vehicles,
and has been issued a disabled veteran's motor vehicle license plate, as
prescribed in VA Code § 46.2-739, or 1 motor vehicle owned and used personally
by the unremarried surviving spouse of such disabled veteran shall be exempt
from the payment of the license fee levied and imposed by this subchapter.
   (I)   One passenger vehicle, pickup or panel truck, as defined in VA Code §
46.2-100, owned and used personally by any former prisoner of war who holds a
current state motor vehicle registration card establishing that he has received
prisoner of war state license plates as prescribed in VA Code § 46.2-746 or 1
motor vehicle owned and used personally by the unremarried surviving spouse of
a person eligible to receive such special license plates shall be exempt from
the payment of the license fee levied and imposed by this subchapter.
   (J)   Daily rental vehicles as defined in VA Code § 58.1-2401, the rental of
which are subject to the tax imposed by VA Code § 58.1-2402(A)(4), shall be
exempt from the payment of the license fee levied and imposed by this
subchapter.
   (K)   Passenger vehicles and pickup or panel trucks, as defined in VA Code §
46.2-100, owned and used personally by a member of the National Guard who has
received special metal state license plates pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-744,
shall be partially exempt from the payment of the license fee levied and
imposed by this subchapter to the extent of 50% of said fee, provided that such
reduced town fee shall not exceed the reduced state tax or fee imposed under VA
Code § 46.2-744 and VA Code § 46.2-694.
   (L)   (1)   Antique motor vehicles and antique trailers, as defined in VA
Code § 46.2-100, registered and licensed by the state in accordance with VA
Code § 46.2-730(A) shall be exempt from the payment of the license fee levied
under this subchapter, provided that other conditions prescribed herein are
met.
      (2)   In order to qualify for exemption hereunder, an antique motor
vehicle and antique trailer registered and licensed under VA Code § 46.2-730
shall not be used for general transportation purposes, including, but not
limited to, daily travel to and from the owner's place of employment, but shall
only be used:
         (a)   For participation in club activities, exhibits, tours, parades
and similar events; and
         (b)   On the highways of the Commonwealth for the purpose of testing
their operation, obtaining repairs or maintenance, transportation to and from
events as described in division (a) of this division, and for occasional
pleasure driving not exceeding 250 miles from the residence of the owner.
   (M)   For state law reference for individual subsections, see as follows:
(a)(1)-VA Code § 46.2-752(H) and VA Code § 46.2-755(A)(1); (a)(2)-VA Code §
46.2-755(A)(2); (a)(3)-VA Code § 46.2-755(A)(3); (a)(4)-VA Code § 46.2-755(A)
(4); (a)(5)-VA Code § 46.2-755(A)(5); (a)(6)- VA Code § 46.2-755(A)(6); (a)(7)-
VA Code § 46.2- 752(A) and VA Code § 46.2-694; (b)-VA Code § 46.2-752(A); (c)-
VA Code § 46.2-750(A); (d)-VA Code § 46.2-745; (e) and (f)-VA Code § 46.2-
649.1:1 and VA Code § 46.2-752(A), but see also VA Code § 46.2-736 and VA Code
§ 46.2-735; (g)-VA Code § 46.2-752(A)(4) and (A)(5); (h)-VA Code § 46.2-739 and
VA Code § 46.2-755(B); (i)-VA Code § 46.2-746; (j)-VA Code § 46.2-755(C); (k)-
VA Code § 46.2-744; and (1)-VA Code § 46.2-730. See also VA Code § 46.2-752(A)
(12).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
   Statutory reference:
   For provisions regarding exemption from personal property taxation of
"antique motor vehicles" as defined in VA Code § 46.2-100 which may not be used
for general transportation purposes, see VA Code § 58.1-3504(A)(8)
   Cross-reference:
   For provisions providing that no motor vehicle license shall be issued by
the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles to a person otherwise entitled to a
waiver of the local license fee until applicant produces evidence that all
currently due and delinquent personal property taxes on the vehicle to be
licensed have been paid, see §
70.21(C).
§ 70.20 LICENSE FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All fees collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be deposited by
the Treasurer in the general fund of the town.
   (B)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(B).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
§ 70.21 PAYMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES PREREQUISITE.
   (A)   No motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer shall be licensed by the
Department of Motor Vehicles until such applicant for such license has paid all
personal property taxes and the license fee assessed hereunder upon the motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer to be licensed and until the Department of
Motor Vehicles has been provided satisfactory evidence by the Treasurer of the
Town of Brookneal that any delinquent motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
personal property taxes or license fees which have been properly assessed or
are assessable against the applicant by the town have been paid.
   (B)   No motor vehicle license shall be issued by the Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles unless the tangible personal property taxes properly assessed or
assessable by the town on any tangible personal property used or usable as a
dwelling titled by the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and owned by the
taxpayer have been paid.
   (C)   No motor vehicle license shall be issued by the Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles to an owner of a motor vehicle as to which a fee is required to
be paid pursuant to this subchapter, qualified under the provisions hereof to a
waiver of that fee, until the applicant for such license or registration from
the Department of Motor Vehicles has produced before the Town of Brookneal
Treasurer, or his agent, satisfactory evidence that all personal property taxes
upon the motor vehicle licensed have been paid and satisfactory evidence that
any delinquent personal property taxes due with respect to the vehicle which
have been properly assessed or are assessable against the owner have been paid.
   (D)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(C) and (A)(12).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
   Cross-reference:
   For state law provisions regarding payment of taxes on leased property by
lessee and requirement that certain information re taxes to be furnished to
lessee by lessor, see VA Code § 58.1-3516.2.
   For provisions regarding proration of personal property tax, see VA Code §
58.1-3516.
§ 70.22 LICENSE YEAR.
   (A)   The license year with respect to which the fee required to be paid
under this subchapter is assessed shall be January 1 through December 31 of
each year. The fee assessed under this subchapter shall be assessed to the
owner of each motor vehicle as provided in this subchapter for motor vehicles
owned on January 1 of each year. The fee shall be payable on or before December
5 of each year and with respect to any fees not paid at that time there is
hereby imposed a $20.00 fee to reimburse the Town of Brookneal for costs
associated with administration of the Vehicle Registration Withholding Program
with the Commonwealth of Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) if a DMV
stop order has been issued prior to payment. The fee herein assessed will be
based upon ownership of vehicles on fee day, that is, January 1 of each year,
and the period for which the license fee is effective shall be January 1
through December 31 of the next ensuing year.
   (B)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(A).
   (C)   Editor's note: Transitional provisions effective for 2007 license year
only. In order to adjust the amount of the vehicle license fee for the 2007
license year in recognition of the transition from the former April 15, 2007
due date for decals to the new December 5, 2006 due date for vehicle license
fees, the vehicle license fee for the 2007 license year only is reduced by 33%
such that the fee shall be $10.00 on  each and every passenger vehicle and
truck, and is reduced by a corresponding 33% on motorcycles and all other motor
vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, etc. that are subject to the town license
fee. The transitional provisions in §
70.17(C) and §
70.18(A) of this Code shall automatically expire on or before December 5, 2007
and all annual town vehicle license fees for the 2008 license year and
thereafter shall be imposed at the full amounts specified in those sections and
such fees shall be payable on or before December 5 of each year, beginning
December 5, 2007.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
§ 70.23 FAILURE TO PAY LICENSE FEE, PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX, ETC.; PENALTY.
   (A)   Reserved.
   (B)   In the event that the license fee required by this subchapter is not
paid, or if any personal property taxes, properly assessed against such
vehicle, are not paid on or before December 5 of each year, with respect to
each owner or co-owner of any motor vehicle as to which the license fee has not
been paid, or any personal property taxes have not been paid, the Town
Treasurer shall mail to the owner/co-owner by first class mail a notice of
intent to request the Commonwealth of Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles
under the Vehicle Registration Withholding Program to deny his or her
registration renewal with respect to the vehicle which is subject to the
license fee or personal property tax herein. In the event of payment of that
vehicle license fee and/or delinquent personal property taxes, the Town
Treasurer shall provide to the vehicle owner/co-owner an approved numbered
receipt that clearly indicates that the vehicle owner/co-owner has paid in full
all outstanding local vehicle fees and delinquent taxes to the locality,
together with the penalty, interests and administrative fee hereinabove set
forth.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer to fail to pay the local license fee or personal property taxes
assessed with respect to each motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer after
December 5 of each year.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine of $100.00.
   (E)   A violation of this section by the registered owner of the vehicle
shall not be discharged by prepayment of a fine or by payment of a fine imposed
by the court except upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the
required license has been obtained.
   (F)   For state law reference, see VA Code § 46.2-752(J). See also VA Code §
18.2-11.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2006)
§ 70.24 FOR-HIRE LICENSE PLATES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or for the owner of a
vehicle to knowingly permit the operation of, upon the streets or highways of
the town, any resident for-hire motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer without
having first obtained for the motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer a local
for-hire license plate in accordance with this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 66-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Failure to display license plate or decal, see VA Code, § 46.2-613
§ 70.25 LICENSE TAXES ON OWNERS OF CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a license tax of $100 annually upon the owners
of motor vehicles which do not display current license plates and which are not
exempted from the requirements of displaying the license plates under the
provisions of VA Code §§ 46.2-662 et seq., 46.2-1554 and 46.2-1555, are not in
a public dump, in an automobile graveyard as defined in VA Code, § 33.1-348, or
in the possession of a licensed junk dealer or licensed motor vehicle dealer.
      (1)   Any vehicles which are stored on private property for a period not
in excess of 60 days, for the purpose of removing parts for the repair of
another vehicle shall be exempt from this tax.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be applicable to any vehicle being
held or stored by or at the direction of any governmental authority, to any
vehicle owned by a member of the armed forces on active duty or to any vehicle
regularly stored within a structure.
   (B)   The license tax shall be paid to the town on or before January 31 of
each calendar year. The license decal which shall be issued by the town shall
be affixed at a prominent place on the subject vehicle. It shall be presumed
that the owner of a motor vehicle is the person on whose land the motor vehicle
is located unless shown otherwise.
(1997 Code, § 66-46)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, see VA Code, § 15.2-973
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.30 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand in the vehicular travel portion of any street or
roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride, employment or business from the
occupant of any vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 66-136) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians soliciting rides, see VA Code, § 46.2-929
§ 70.31 TO OBEY SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall obey signs and signals erected on highways or streets for
the direction and control of traffic, and they shall obey the orders of law
enforcement officers engaged in directing traffic on the highways and streets.
Violations of this section shall be punished according to the provisions of
§ 10.99.
(1997 Code, § 66-137) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, see VA Code, § 46.2-935
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Vehicle Operation
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Blocking intersections
   
71.03   Noise in the operation of motor vehicles
Parades and Processions
   
71.15   Permits
   
71.16   Driving through funeral or other processions; manner of driving in
funeral processions
   
71.17   Identification of vehicles in funeral processions; right-of-way
Obstructions of Streets
   
71.30   Railroad cars obstructing street or road; standing vehicle on railroad
track
   
71.31   Temporary removal and disposition of vehicles involved in accidents
 
   
71.99   Penalty
VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limits on the highways of this town are as follows:
   (A)   Twenty-five miles per hour on highways in business or residential
districts, except on limited access highways with divided roadways, or as
otherwise posted; and
   (B)   Thirty-five miles per hour on other highways, except on limited access
highways with divided roadways and in business or residential districts, or as
otherwise posted.
(1997 Code, § 66-71) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, §§ 46.2-874, 46.2-875
§ 71.02 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS.
   No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space beyond the intersection or crosswalk in the
direction in which the vehicle is proceeding to accommodate the vehicle without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwith- standing any
traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(1997 Code, § 66-72) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.03 NOISE IN THE OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be loaded with materials likely to create loud noises
by striking together, without using every reasonable effort to deaden the
noise.
   (B)   (1)   The use in, upon or attached to any motor vehicle operating on
any street of the town of any radio, phonograph, musical instrument, bell,
whistle, loudspeaker, amplifier or device of any kind whatsoever, whereby sound
therefrom is cast upon any street to promote or advertise the sale of goods,
wares or merchandise, or for the purpose of advertising auction sales, sporting
events or other business or things advertised thereby, or for purposes of
entertainment or any other purpose, with a sound level greater than the level
allowed by law, is prohibited, except in accordance with a permit issued by the
Mayor.
      (2)   The provisions of this division shall not apply to motor vehicles
driven in a duly authorized parade; and provided further, that the use of a
loudspeaker on a motor vehicle for making auction sales in streets directly in
front of the property then being sold, and entirely outside of the business
districts of the town, shall not be construed as a violation of this division
when the use is limited strictly to the selling at auction of the property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motorcycle within the
town to create in its operation any unreasonably loud or disturbing noise.
   (D)   In operating a motorcycle, the following acts among others, are
declared to create loud and disturbing noises in violation of this section, but
the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The use of a motorcycle so out of repair as to cause loud grating,
grinding, rattling or any of these noises, or any other noise;
      (2)   The practice of racing the motor of a motorcycle while standing or
moving, causing noise from the motor;
      (3)   The practice of retarding the spark to the motor causing loud and
explosive noise from the motor;
      (4)   In starting a motorcycle off from a starting position, the practice
of gaining speed quickly, causing loud noise from the motor; and
      (5)   The practice of coming to an unreasonably quick stop with a
motorcycle causing grinding of brakes and screeching of tires or either of
these noises.
(1997 Code, § 66-9) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 71.15 PERMITS.
   No parade, except the armed forces of the United States, the armed forces of
the state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments of the town, shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Mayor and other regulations as are set forth in this chapter
which may apply.
(1997 Code, § 66-6)
§ 71.16 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS; MANNER OF DRIVING IN
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer. This section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles as defined by law.
(1997 Code, § 66-7) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.17 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES IN FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   All motor vehicles participating in a funeral procession, when
proceeding to any place of burial, shall display illuminated headlamps thereon.
   (B)   All motor vehicles so designated shall have the right-of-way over all
other vehicles, except fire apparatus, ambulances and police vehicles, at any
street or highway intersection within the town, and may proceed through a stop
street or signalized intersection with proper caution and safety.
(1997 Code, § 66-8)
OBSTRUCTIONS OF STREETS
§ 71.30 RAILROAD CARS OBSTRUCTING STREET OR ROAD; STANDING VEHICLE ON RAILROAD
TRACK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, or any receiver or
trustee operating a railroad, to obstruct for a longer period than 5 minutes
the free passage on any street or road by standing cars or trains across the
street or road, except a passenger train while receiving or discharging
passengers. A passageway shall be kept open to allow normal flow of traffic.
Nor shall it be lawful to stand any wagon or other vehicle on the track of any
railroad which will hinder or endanger a moving train; provided, however, that
when a train has been uncoupled, so as to make a passageway, the time
necessarily required, not exceeding 3 minutes, to pump up the air after the
train has been recoupled shall not be included in considering the time the cars
or trains were standing across the street or road.
   (B)   This section shall not apply when the train is stopped due to
breakdown, mechanical failure or emergency.
(1997 Code, § 66-11) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, § 56-412.1
§ 71.31 TEMPORARY REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES INVOLVED IN ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer involved in an
accident is so located as to impede the orderly flow of traffic, the police
may:
      (1)   At no cost to the owner or operator remove the motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer to some point in the vicinity where it will not impede
the flow of traffic; or
      (2)   Have the vehicle removed to a storage area for safekeeping and
shall report the removal to the State Department of Motor Vehicles and to the
owner of the vehicle as promptly as possible.
   (B)   If the vehicle is removed to a storage area under division (A)(2) of
this section, the owner shall pay to the parties entitled thereto all costs
incidental to its removal and storage.
(1997 Code, § 66-12)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, see VA Code, § 46.2-1212
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating
§ 71.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided in
§ 10.99.
(1997 Code, § 66-71)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of
§ 71.03 shall be guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 66-10)
   (D)   Any railroad company, receiver or trustee violating the provisions of
§ 71.30 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
however, that the fine may be $100 for each minute beyond the permitted time,
but the total fine shall not exceed $500.
(1997 Code, § 66-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, § 56-412.1
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.01   Parking prohibited in specific places
   
72.02   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.03   Parking vehicles without license on public streets
   
72.04   Parking on private property
   
72.05   Backing up to curbs
   
72.06   Stopping on highways to discharge cargo or passengers; school buses
   
72.07   Manner of using loading zones
   
72.08   Unattended or immobile vehicles
   
72.09   Contracts with private persons for removal and storage of vehicles
   
72.10   Removal and disposition of vehicles unlawfully parked on private
property
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Town parking regulations, see VA Code, § 46.2-1220
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   Enumeration. No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by official signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
      (10)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      (15)   Where limited to a specified class and the person is not a member
of that class;
      (16)   Parking at the recreational park beyond barriers without a town-
issued permit to do so; and
      (17)   Parking by an unauthorized person in a space reserved for persons
with disabilities.
   (B)   Moving parked vehicles. No person other than a police officer shall
move a vehicle into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance that is
unlawful; start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle; or
shift, change or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other
mechanism of a parked motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it
was left by the owner or driver, or attempt to do so.
   (C)   Method of procurement. The town police or other law enforcement
officers with jurisdiction shall issue a town parking violation which
prescribes the date, time, violation nature and fines payable to the town
within 30 days. Upon nonpayment of prescribed fines to the town, the town
police or law enforcement officers shall secure warrants of the violation for
adjudication by the appropriate district court.
(1997 Code, §§ 66-101) (Ord. passed 10-12-1999) Penalty, see
§ 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking in certain locations, see VA Code, § 46.2-1239
§ 72.02 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place any
automobile, truck, trailer or other vehicle upon or in any street, alley or
parkway for the purpose of selling or offering the vehicle for sale or rent. No
sign or lettering shall be attached or placed upon any automobile, truck,
trailer or other vehicle parked in or upon any public street, alley or parkway
of the city indicating that the vehicle is offered for sale or for rent.
      (2)   It shall also be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street in a
business district from which any merchandise is being sold.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to stop a vehicle at any time upon the highway
for the purpose of advertising any article of any kind, or to display thereupon
advertisements of any article or advertisement for the sale of the vehicle
itself.
(1997 Code, § 66-102) Penalty, see
§ 72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING VEHICLES WITHOUT LICENSE ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or to park any vehicle having no current
state license on any highway. Any violation of this section shall be punished
as set out in
§ 72.99(A).
(1997 Code, § 66-103)
§ 72.04 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any private lot or lot area
without the express or implied consent of the owner. Whenever signs or markings
have been erected on any lot or lot area, contiguous or adjacent to a street,
thoroughfare or alley indicating that no vehicles are permitted to stand or
park thereon, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle across any
curb or lot line or over any driveway from a street or alley into the lot or
area for the purpose of standing or parking the vehicle, or for any person to
stop, stand or park any vehicle in the lot or lot area.
(1997 Code, § 66-104) Penalty, see
§ 72.99
§ 72.05 BACKING UP TO CURBS.
   No vehicle shall be backed up to a curb, except during the time actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise therefrom.
(1997 Code, § 66-105)
§ 72.06 STOPPING ON HIGHWAYS TO DISCHARGE CARGO OR PASSENGERS; SCHOOL BUSES.
   No truck or bus, except a school bus, shall be stopped wholly or partially
on the traveled portion of any highway outside of cities and towns for the
purpose of taking on or discharging cargo or passengers, unless the operator
cannot leave the traveled portion of the highway with safety. A school bus may
be stopped on the traveled portion of the highway when taking on or discharging
school- children, but these stops shall be made only at points where the bus
can be clearly seen for a safe distance from both directions.
(1997 Code, § 66-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, § 46.2-893
§ 72.07 MANNER OF USING LOADING ZONES.
   Where a loading and unloading zone has been set apart by the Mayor in
accordance with applicable provisions of this chapter, the following
regulations shall apply with respect to the use of the areas:
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials, in any place marked as a curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to those zones are in effect. All delivery
vehicles, other than regular delivery trucks, using the loading zones shall be
identified by the owner’s or company’s name in letters 3 inches high on both
sides of the vehicle; and
   (B)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily in a space
marked as a curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or bundles, when the stopping does not
interfere with any vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is
waiting to enter or is about to enter the loading space.
(1997 Code, § 66-108) Penalty, see
§ 72.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED OR IMMOBILE VEHICLES.
   (A)   The town may remove a motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part
thereof for safekeeping to a storage area if:
      (1)   It is left unattended on a public highway or other public property
and constitutes a traffic hazard;
      (2)   It is illegally parked;
      (3)   It is left unattended for more than 10 days either on public
property or on private property without the permission of the property owner,
lessee or occupant; or
      (4)   It is immobilized on a public roadway by weather conditions or
other emergency situation.
   (B)   (1)   Removal shall be carried out by or under the direction of a law
enforcement officer. However, motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers and parts
thereof shall not be removed from private property without the written request
of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises. The person at whose request
the motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part of a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer is removed from private property shall indemnify the town against
any loss or expense incurred by reason of removal, storage or sale thereof. It
shall be presumed that the motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part thereof
is abandoned if it lacks either a current license plate; a current county, city
or town license plate or sticker; a valid state safety inspection certificate
or sticker; and it has been in a specific location for 4 days without being
moved.
      (2)   As promptly as possible, each removal shall be reported to the
Chief of Police and to the owner of the motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer.
      (3)   Before obtaining possession of the motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer or part thereof, the owner shall pay to the parties entitled
thereto all costs incidental to its removal and storage and locating the owner.
If the owner fails or refuses to pay the cost, or if his or her identity or
whereabouts is unknown and unascertainable after a diligent search has been
made, and after notice to him or her at his or her last known address and to
the holder of any lien of record with the office of the State Department of
Motor Vehicles against the motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part of a
motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, the vehicle shall be treated as an
abandoned vehicle under the provisions of VA Code, §§ 46.2-1200 et seq.
(1997 Code, § 66-109)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for this section, VA Code, § 46.2-1213
§ 72.09 CONTRACTS WITH PRIVATE PERSONS FOR REMOVAL AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to enter into contracts with the owner
or operator of garages or places for the removal or storage of vehicles
referred to in
§ 72.08.
   (B)   The contracts shall provide for the payment by the town of reasonable
charges for the removal and storage of the vehicles, shall require the owners
or operators to deliver the vehicles to the owners or their agents upon demand
therefor, furnishing satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or agency,
and that the owners or operators of the garages or places of storage will
indemnify the owners of the vehicles for contracts with the owner or operator
of garages or places for the removal or storage of vehicles referred to in
§ 72.08.
   (C)   The contracts shall provide for the payment by the town of reasonable
charges for the removal and storage of the vehicles, shall require the owners
or operators to deliver the vehicles to the owners or their agents upon demand
therefor, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or
agency, and that the owners or operators of the garages or places of storage
will indemnify the owners of the vehicles for injury or damage thereto
resulting from the negligent removal or storage, and the owners or operators
shall be required to provide themselves with adequate liability insurance to
cover the indemnity.
(1997 Code, § 66-110)
Statutory reference:
   Local governing body may regulate certain towing, see VA Code, § 46.2-1217
   Removal and disposition of unattended or immobile vehicles, see VA Code, §
46.2-1213
§ 72.10 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES UNLAWFULLY PARKED ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, operator or lessee to leave any
motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part thereof on the private property of
any other person without his or her consent. Upon complaint of the owner,
operator or lessee of any property on which the motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer or part thereof has been abandoned for more than 10 days, that the
motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part thereof, may be removed by or under
the direction of a storage garage or area. The person who had requested the
motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or part thereof to be so removed shall
indemnify the town against any loss or expense incurred by reason of removal,
storage or sale thereof.
   (B)   In all other respects the provisions of
§ 72.08 shall apply to these removals.
   (C)   In the case of the removal of a part of a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer from private property, when the part cannot be readily sold, it may
be disposed of in such manner as the Council may provide.
(1997 Code, § 66-111) Penalty, see
§ 72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in
§ 10.99.
(1997 Code, § 66-112)
   (B)   (1)   Penalties for all other divisions listed other than divisions
(A)(2), (15) and (17) of
§ 72.01 shall be $10 per occurrence.
      (2)   Penalties for divisions (A)(2) and (A)(15) of
§ 72.01 are fines of $25 per occurrence.
      (3)   Penalties for division (A)(17) of
§ 72.01 shall be $100 per occurrence.
(1997 Code, § 66-101) (Ord. passed 10-12-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; FIREWORKS
      
93.   SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
      
94.   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS; JUNKYARDS
      
95.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs; running at large prohibited
   
90.03   Rabies prevention
Dog Licenses
   
90.20   Required; exemptions; disposition of funds
   
90.21   Due date for payment of tax
   
90.22   Application for license; issuance
   
92.23   Evidence of rabies vaccination required
   
90.24   License tags generally
   
90.25   Duplicate tags
   
90.26   Display of receipt; wearing of collar and tag
   
90.27   Dogs not wearing tag presumed unlicensed
   
90.28   Display of kennel tags; allowing dogs out of kennel
Dangerous or Vicious Dogs
   
90.40   Confinement; hearing
   
90.41   Determination; exemptions
   
90.42   Registration required
   
90.43   Certificates; renewal; conditions of
   
90.44   Confinement required
   
90.45   Minor owners; parental responsibility
   
90.46   Owner’s duty to notify
   
90.47   Appeal
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.60   Seizure and impoundment; procedure
   
90.61   Disabled and abandoned animals; destruction of
   
90.62   Funds; use of
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal nuisances, see
§ 90.18
Statutory reference:
   Comprehensive animal laws, see VA Code, §§ 3.1-796.66 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions set forth in VA Code §
3.1-796.66 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   (B)   In addition to those definitions set forth in VA Code § 3.1-796.66,
the following definitions shall also apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A canine or canine crossbreed that has bitten, attacked, or
inflicted injury on a person or companion animal, other than a dog, or killed a
companion animal.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
   VICIOUS DOG. A canine or canine crossbreed that has:
      (1)   Killed a person;
      (2)   Inflicted serious injury to a person, including multiple bites,
serious disfigurement, serious impairment of health, or serious impairment of a
bodily function; or
      (3)   Continued to exhibit the behavior which resulted in a previous
finding by a court or an animal control officer that it is a dangerous dog,
provided that its owner has been given notice of that finding.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
§ 90.02 DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a dog shall be deemed to run at large
while roaming, running or self-hunting off the property of its owner or
custodian and not under its owner's or custodian's immediate control.
   (B)   Any person who permits his dog to run at large, or remain unconfined,
unrestricted or not penned up shall be deemed to have violated the provisions
of this section.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
§ 90.03 RABIES PREVENTION.
   Every person shall comply with the state laws concerning rabies inoculations
for dogs and cats, including, but not limited to, VA Code § 3.1-796.97 et seq.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
DOG LICENSES
§ 90.20 REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the locality to own a
dog four months of age or older unless such dog is licensed. Dog licenses shall
be for the calendar year, from January 1 to December 31. The license tax shall
be in an amount as set by the Governing Body from time to time.
   (B)   No license tax shall be levied on any dog that is trained and serves
as a guide dog for a blind person, that is trained and serves as a hearing dog
for a deaf or hearing impaired person, or that is trained and serves as a
service dog for a mobility impaired person. As used in this section, the term
HEARING DOG means a dog trained to alert its owner by touch to sounds of danger
and sounds to which the owner should respond, and the term SERVICE DOG means a
dog trained to accompany its owner for the purpose of carrying items,
retrieving objects, pulling a wheelchair or other such activities of service or
support.
   (C)   The funds collected for dog license taxes shall be paid into a
separate account and shall be disposed of as provided in VA Code § 3.1-796.101.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
Statutory reference:  
   License tax; maximum amounts, VA Code § 3.1-796.87
§ 90.21 DUE DATE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or before January 1 but not later than January 31 of each year, the
owner of any dog four months of age or older shall pay a license tax as
prescribed in this chapter.
     (B)   If a dog becomes four months of age or comes into the possession of
any person residing in the locality between January 1 and November 1 of any
year, the license tax for the current calendar year shall be due and payable by
the owner.
   (C)   If a dog becomes four months of age or comes into the possession of
any person residing in the county between October 31 and December 31 of any
year, the license tax for the succeeding calendar year shall be paid forthwith
by the owner and such license shall be valid from the date such license is
purchased.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, VA Code § 3.1-796.88
§ 90.22 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
    (A)   Any person may obtain a dog license by making application to the
Governing Body, or its designated agent, accompanied by the amount of license
tax and certificate of vaccination as required in VA Code § 3.1-796.97. The
Governing Body, or its authorized agent, shall only have authority to license
dogs of resident owners or custodians who reside within the boundary limits of
the locality, and may require information to this effect from any applicant.
Upon receipt of proper application and the certificate of vaccination, the
Governing Body or its authorized agent shall issue a license receipt for the
amount of the license tax. The receipt shall state the name and address of the
owner or custodian of the dog, the date of payment, the year for which issued,
the serial number of the tag, and whether the license is for a male, unsexed
female, female or kennel. The metal license tags or plates shall be delivered
with the receipt to the owner. The information thus received shall be retained
by the locality, open to public inspection during the period for which such
license is valid.
   (B)   The Governing Body may establish agencies for the purpose of issuing
dog license tags subject to the restrictions and regulations provided by this
section and state law. The Governing Body may designate agents to issue dog
tags and shall prescribe the forms and methods of reporting for such agents.
   (C)   Any person who shall make a false statement in order to secure a dog
license to which he is not entitled shall be guilty of a Class IV misdemeanor.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
§ 90.23 EVIDENCE OF RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   No dog license shall be issued for any dog unless there is presented, at the
time application for such license is made, a current and valid certificate of
rabies vaccination which includes all the information specified in this
subchapter.
Statutory reference:
   Rabies inoculation required, VA Code § 3.1-796.97
§ 90.24 LICENSE TAGS GENERALLY.
    A dog license shall consist of a license receipt and a metal tag, as
authorized pursuant to VA Code § 3.1-796.90. The tag shall be stamped or
otherwise permanently marked to show the locality issuing the license, the sex
of the dog, the calendar year for which issued and a serial number. The license
tag for a kennel shall show the number of dogs authorized to be kept under such
license and have attached thereto a metal identification plate for each of such
dogs, numbered to correspond with the serial number of the license tag.
Statutory reference:   
   License; what constitutes, VA Code § 3.1-796.90
 § 90.25 DUPLICATE TAGS.
    If a dog license shall become lost, destroyed or stolen, the owner or
custodian shall at once apply for a duplicate license tag, presenting the
original license receipt. Upon affidavit of the owner or custodian that the
original license tag has been lost, destroyed or stolen, the Governing Body or
its authorized agent shall issue a duplicate license tag, which the owner or
custodian shall immediately affix to the collar of the dog. The Governing Body
or its authorized agent shall endorse the number of the duplicate and the date
issued on the face of the original license receipt. The fee for a duplicate tag
for any dog shall be in an amount as set by the Governing Body, which shall be
paid into the special fund established pursuant to VA Code § 3.1-796.101.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
Statutory reference: 
   Duplicate license tags, VA Code § 3.1-796.91
§ 90.26 DISPLAY OF RECEIPT; WEARING OF COLLAR AND TAG.
   (A)   Dog license receipts shall be carefully preserved by the licensees and
exhibited promptly on request for inspection by any animal protection officer
or other law enforcement officer. Dog license tags shall be securely fastened
to a substantial collar by the owner or custodian and worn by such dog. It
shall be unlawful for any person to permit any licensed dog, four months of age
or over, to be off the premises of the owner at any time without wearing the
license tag; except that the owner of the dog may remove the collar and license
tag required by this section when the dog:
      (1)   Is engaged in lawful hunting;
      (2)   Is competing in a dog show;
      (3)   Has a skin condition which would be exacerbated by the wearing of a
collar;
      (4)   Is confined; or
      (5)   Is under the immediate control of the owner.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class IV
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
Statutory reference: 
   Display receipts; dogs to wear tags, VA Code § 3.1-796.92
§ 90.27 DOGS NOT WEARING TAG PRESUMED UNLICENSED.
    Any dog not wearing a collar bearing a license tag of the proper calendar
year shall, prima facie, be deemed to be unlicensed. In any proceedings under
the provisions of this chapter, the burden of proof of the fact that such dog
has been licensed or is otherwise not required to bear a tag at the time shall
be on the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99
Statutory reference: 
   Effect of dog not wearing collar as evidence, VA Code § 3.1-796.89 
 § 90.28 DISPLAY OF KENNEL TAGS; ALLOWING DOGS OUT OF KENNEL.
    (A)   The owner of a kennel in the locality shall securely fasten the
license tag to the kennel enclosure in full view and keep one of the
identification plates provided therewith attached to the collar of each dog
authorized to be kept enclosed in the kennel. Any identification plates not so
in use must be kept by the owner or custodian and promptly shown to the animal
protection supervisor or other officer upon request. A kennel dog shall not be
permitted to stray beyond the limits of the enclosure, but this shall not
prohibit removing dogs therefrom temporarily while under the control of the
owner or custodian for the purpose of exercising, hunting, breeding, trial or
show. The Governing Body or its authorized agent may issue a permit allowing
kennel dogs to run at large during such months as he may deem proper; provided
that such permit shall not authorize such dogs to run at large contrary to any
other provisions of this Code or other ordinance of the locality. Every permit
shall state the months that such dogs may run at large and the rules and
regulations that must be complied with, and the Governing Body or its
authorized agent may revoke any such permit at any time.
   (B)   A kennel shall not be operated in such a manner as to defraud the
locality of the license tax applying to dogs, or in such a manner as to violate
other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If a dog is found running and roaming at large at any time of the year
in violation of the provisions of this section, such violation by its owner
shall be punishable as a Class IV misdemeanor. If it is a kennel dog, the
license may be revoked if the law appears to the court to have been violated by
reason of carelessness or negligence on the part of the owner, who shall
thereupon be required to secure an individual license for each dog.
Penalty, see
§ 90.99  
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.40 CONFINEMENT; HEARING.
   Any animal control officer who has reason to believe that a canine or canine
crossbreed within the locality is a dangerous dog or vicious dog shall apply to
a magistrate of the jurisdiction for the issuance of a summons requiring the
owner or custodian, if known, to appear before a general district court at a
specified time. The summons shall advise the owner of the nature of the
proceeding and the matters at issue. The animal control officer shall confine
the animal until such time as evidence shall be heard and a verdict rendered.
If the animal control officer determines that the owner or custodian can
confine the animal in a manner that protects the public safety, he may permit
the owner or custodian to confine the animal until such time as evidence shall
be heard and a verdict rendered. The court, through its contempt powers, may
compel the owner, custodian or harborer of the animal to produce the animal.
If, after hearing the evidence, the court finds that the animal is a dangerous
dog, the court shall order the animal's owner to comply with the provisions of
this section. If, after hearing the evidence, the court finds that the animal
is a vicious dog, the court shall order the animal euthanized in accordance
with the provisions of VA Code § 3.1-796.119.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
§ 90.41 DETERMINATION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No canine or canine crossbreed shall be found to be a dangerous dog or
vicious dog solely because it is a particular breed, nor shall the Governing
Body prohibit the ownership of a particular breed of canine or canine
crossbreed.
   (B)   No animal shall be found to be a dangerous dog or vicious dog if the
threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who was:
      (1)   Committing, at the time, a crime upon the premises occupied by the
animal's owner or custodian;
      (2)   Committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the animal's owner or custodian; or
      (3)   Provoking, tormenting, or physically abusing the animal, or can be
shown to have repeatedly provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted the animal
at other times.
   (C)   No police dog that was engaged in the performance of its duties as
such at the time of the acts complained of shall be found to be a dangerous dog
or a vicious dog.
   (D)   No animal which, at the time of the acts complained of, was responding
to pain or injury, or was protecting itself, its kennel, its offspring, or its
owner or owner's property, shall be found to be a dangerous dog or a vicious
dog.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
§ 90.42 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The owner of any animal found to be a dangerous dog shall, within ten days
of such finding, obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the local
animal control officer for a fee of $50, or an amount as set by local
ordinance, but not to exceed the costs incurred by the locality to administer
this program, in addition to other fees that may be authorized by law. The
local animal control officer shall also provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
affix the tag to the animal's collar and ensure that the animal wears the
collar and tag at all times. All certificates obtained pursuant to this
subdivision shall be renewed annually for the same fee and in the same manner
as the initial certificate was obtained.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
§ 90.43 CERTIFICATES; RENEWAL; CONDITIONS OF.
   (A)   All certificates or renewals thereof required to be obtained under
this section shall only be issued to persons 18 years of age or older who
present satisfactory evidence:
      (1)   Of the animal's current rabies vaccination, if applicable; and
      (2)   That the animal is and will be confined in a proper enclosure or is
and will be confined inside the owner's residence or is and will be muzzled and
confined in the owner's fenced-in yard until the proper enclosure is
constructed.
   (B)   In addition, owners who apply for certificates or renewals thereof
under this section shall not be issued a certificate or renewal thereof unless
they present satisfactory evidence that:
      (1)   Their residence is and will continue to be posted with clearly
visible signs warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog
on the property; and
      (2)   The animal has been permanently identified by means of a tattoo on
the inside thigh or by electronic implantation.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
§ 90.44 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   While on the property of its owner, an animal found to be a dangerous dog
shall be confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked structure of
sufficient height and design to prevent its escape or direct contact with or
entry by minors, adults, or other animals. The structure shall be designed to
provide the animal with shelter from the elements of nature. When off its
owner's property, an animal found to be a dangerous dog shall be kept on a
leash and muzzled in such a manner as not to cause injury to the animal or
interfere with the animal's vision or respiration, but so as to prevent it from
biting a person or another animal.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
§ 90.45 MINOR OWNERS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   If the owner of an animal found to be a dangerous dog is a minor, the
custodial parent or legal guardian shall be responsible for complying with all
requirements of this section.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
§ 90.46 OWNER’S DUTY TO NOTIFY.
   After an animal has been found to be a dangerous dog, the animal's owner
shall immediately, upon learning of same, notify the local animal control
authority if the animal:
   (A)   Is loose or unconfined;
   (B)   Bites a person or attacks another animal;
   (C)   Is sold, given away, or dies; or
   (D)   Has been moved to a different address.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
§ 90.47 APPEAL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of
§ 90.40, an animal control officer may determine, after investigation, whether
a dog is a dangerous dog. If the animal control officer determines that a dog
is a dangerous dog, he may order the animal's owner to comply with the
provisions of this section. If the animal's owner disagrees with the animal
control officer's determination, he may appeal the determination to the general
district court for a trial on the merits.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1) Penalty, see
§ 90.99 
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.60 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any humane investigator, law-enforcement officer or animal
control officer may lawfully seize and impound any animal that has been
abandoned, has been cruelly treated, or is suffering from an apparent violation
of this chapter or state law that has rendered the animal in such a condition
as to constitute a direct and immediate threat to its life, safety or health.
      (2)   Before seizing or impounding any agricultural animal, such humane
investigator, law-enforcement officer or animal control officer shall contact
the State Veterinarian or a State Veterinarian's representative, who shall
recommend to such person the most appropriate action for the disposition of the
agricultural animal, provided, however, that the seizure or impoundment of an
equine resulting from a violation of VA Code § 3.1- 796.122A(iii) or B(ii) may
be undertaken only by the State Veterinarian or State Veterinarian's
representative who has received training in the examination and detection of
sore horses equivalent to that required by 9 CFR Part 11.7 and that is approved
by the State Veterinarian. The humane investigator, law-enforcement officer or
animal control officer shall notify the owner of the agricultural animal and
the local attorney for the Commonwealth of the recommendation. The humane
investigator, law-enforcement officer or animal control officer may impound the
agricultural animal on the land where the agricultural animal is located if:
         (a)   The owner or tenant of the land where the agricultural animal is
located gives written permission;
         (b)   A general district court so orders; or
         (c)   The owner or tenant of the land where the agricultural animal is
located cannot be immediately located, and it is in the best interest of the
agricultural animal to be impounded on the land where it is located until the
written permission of the owner or tenant of the land can be obtained.
      (3)   If there is a direct and immediate threat to an agricultural
animal, the humane investigator, law-enforcement officer or animal control
officer may seize the animal, in which case the humane investigator, law-
enforcement officer or animal control officer shall file within five business
days on a form approved by the State Veterinarian a report on the condition of
the animal at the time of the seizure, the disposition of the animal, and any
other information required by the State Veterinarian.
      (4)   Upon seizing or impounding an animal, the humane investigator, law-
enforcement officer or animal control officer shall petition the general
district court in the city or county wherein the animal is seized for a
hearing. The hearing shall be not more than ten business days from the date of
the seizure of the animal. The hearing shall be to determine whether the animal
has been abandoned, has been cruelly treated, or has not been provided adequate
care.
   (B)   The humane investigator, law-enforcement officer, or animal control
officer shall cause to be served upon the person with a right of property in
the animal or the custodian of the animal notice of the hearing. If such person
or the custodian is known and residing within the jurisdiction wherein the
animal is seized, written notice shall be given at least five days prior to the
hearing of the time and place of the hearing. If such person or the custodian
is known but residing out of the jurisdiction where such animal is seized,
written notice by any method or service of process as is provided by the
Virginia Code shall be given. If such person or the custodian is not known, the
humane investigator, law-enforcement officer, or animal control officer shall
cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction
wherein such animal is seized notice of the hearing at least one time prior to
the hearing and shall further cause notice of the hearing to be posted at least
five days prior to the hearing at the place provided for public notices at the
city hall or courthouse wherein such hearing shall be held.
   (C)   The procedure for appeal and trial shall be the same as provided by
law for misdemeanors. Trial by jury shall be as provided in VA Code § 19.2-260
et seq. The Commonwealth shall be required to prove its case beyond a
reasonable doubt.
   (D)   The humane investigator, law-enforcement officer, or animal control
officer shall provide for such animal until the court has concluded the
hearing. The owner of any animal held pursuant to this division (D) for more
than 30 days shall post a bond in surety with the locality for the amount of
the cost of boarding the animal for nine months.
   (E)   If the court determines that the animal has been neither abandoned,
cruelly treated, nor deprived of adequate care, the animal shall be returned to
the owner. If the court determines that the animal has been abandoned, cruelly
treated, or deprived of adequate care, then the court shall order that the
animal be:
      (1)   Sold by a local governing body;
      (2)   Humanely destroyed, or disposed of by sale or gift to a federal
agency, state-supported institution, agency of the Commonwealth, agency of
another state, or a licensed federal dealer having its principal place of
business located within the Commonwealth;
      (3)   Delivered to any local humane society or shelter, or to any person
who is a resident of the county or city where the animal is seized or an
adjacent county or city in the Commonwealth and who will pay the required
license fee, if any, on such animal; or
      (4)   Delivered to the person with a right of property in the animal as
provided in division (F) of this section.
   (F)   In no case shall the owner be allowed to purchase, adopt, or otherwise
obtain the animal if the court determines that the animal has been abandoned,
cruelly treated, or deprived of adequate care; however, the court shall direct
that the animal be delivered to the person with a right of property in the
animal, upon his request, if the court finds that the abandonment, cruel
treatment, or deprivation of adequate care is not attributable to the actions
or inactions of such person.
   (G)   The court shall order the owner of any animal determined to have been
abandoned, cruelly treated, or deprived of adequate care to pay all reasonable
expenses incurred in caring and providing for such animal from the time the
animal is seized until such time that the animal is disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of this section, to the provider of such care.
   (H)   The court may prohibit the possession or ownership of other companion
animals by the owner of any companion animal found to have been abandoned,
cruelly treated, or deprived of adequate care. In making a determination to
prohibit the possession or ownership of companion animals, the court may take
into consideration the owner's past record of convictions under this chapter or
other laws prohibiting cruelty to animals or pertaining to the care or
treatment of animals and the owner's mental and physical condition.
   (I)   If the court finds that an agricultural animal has been abandoned or
cruelly treated, the court may prohibit the possession or ownership of any
other agricultural animal by the owner of the agricultural animal if the owner
has exhibited a pattern of abandoning or cruelly treating agricultural animals
as evidenced by previous convictions of violating VA Code § 3.1-796.73 or VA
Code § 3.1-796.122. In making a determination to prohibit the possession or
ownership of agricultural animals, the court may take into consideration the
owner's mental and physical condition.
   (J)   Any person who is prohibited from owning or possessing animals
pursuant to division (H) or (I) of this section may petition the court to
repeal the prohibition after two years have elapsed from the date of entry of
the court's order. The court may, in its discretion, repeal the prohibition if
the person can prove to the satisfaction of the court that the cause for the
prohibition has ceased to exist.
   (K)   When a sale occurs, the proceeds shall first be applied to the costs
of the sale then next to the unreimbursed expenses for the care and provision
of the animal, and the remaining proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the
owner of the animal. If the owner of the animal cannot be found, the proceeds
remaining shall be paid into the Literary Fund of the state treasury.
   (L)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the humane
destruction of a critically injured or ill animal for humane purposes by the
impounding humane investigator, law-enforcement officer, animal control
officer, or licensed veterinarian.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.115)
§ 90.61 DISABLED AND ABANDONED ANIMALS; DESTRUCTION OF.
   (A)   Any humane investigator may lawfully cause to be destroyed any animal
in his charge or found abandoned or not properly cared for when, in the
judgment of the humane investigator and two reputable citizens called to view
the same in his presence, and who shall give their written certificate, the
animal appears to be injured, disabled or diseased, past recovery, or the
injury, disease or disability is such that a reasonable owner would cause the
animal to be destroyed.
   (B)   Any humane investigator shall make every reasonable effort immediately
to notify the owner of the animal that the humane investigator intends for the
animal to be destroyed. The owner shall have a right to select one of the two
reputable citizens called to view the animal and give written certificate of
the animal's condition. In no event shall the determination as to disposition
of the animal be delayed beyond 48 hours after such humane investigator first
decides the animal should be destroyed. In the event that the two citizens
called to give such certificate are unable to agree, they shall select a third
reputable citizen and his decision shall be final.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.114)
§ 90.62 FUNDS; USE OF.
   (A)   Any funds collected pursuant to the enforcement of this chapter,
unless otherwise provided, may be used for the purpose of defraying the costs
of local animal control, including efforts to promote sterilization of cats and
dogs.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.94)
   (B)   All fees collected pursuant to §§
90.40 through
90.47, regarding dangerous or vicious dogs, less the costs incurred by the
animal control authority in producing and distributing the certificates and
tags required by the ordinance, shall be paid into a special dedicated fund in
the treasury of the locality for the purpose of paying the expenses of any
training course required under VA Code §§ 3.1-796.104:1.
(VA Code § 3.1-796.93:1)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
for which no other specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Dangerous or vicious dogs. The owner of any animal that has been found
to be a dangerous dog who willfully fails to comply with the requirements of §§
90.40 through
90.47 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and punished by a fine of not
more than $2,500, and by confinement in jail for not more than 12 months,
either or both.
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Unlawful burial
   
91.02   Trespass at night
Wickliffe Cemetery
   
91.15   Superintendent of cemetery
   
91.16   Cemetery plots
   
91.17   Interment, disinterment and removal
   
91.18   Cemetery improvements or alterations
   
91.19   Flowers, ornaments and decorations
   
91.20   Changing boundaries
   
91.21   Markers, corners and borders
   
91.22   Mausoleums or vaults
Statutory reference:
   Abandonment of cemeteries, removal of remains, see VA Code, §§ 57-36 et seq.
   Cemetery trustees, see VA Code, §§ 57-22 et seq.
   Condemnation of land for cemetery, see VA Code, § 57-25
   Local regulation of size and location of cemeteries, see VA Code, § 57-26
   Location and administration of municipal cemeteries, see VA Code, § 15.2-
1121
   Municipal regulation of cemeteries, see VA Code, § 15.2-1111
   Providing places for the interment of the dead, see VA Code, § 15.2-1121
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 UNLAWFUL BURIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of any person within
the corporate limits of the town, except in a duly established cemetery or
other burying ground.
(1997 Code, § 22-1) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.02 TRESPASS AT NIGHT.
   If any person, without the consent of the owner, proprietor or custodian,
goes or enters in the nighttime upon the premises, property, driveways or walks
of any cemetery, either public or private, for any purpose other than to visit
the burial lot or grave of some member of his or her family, he or she shall be
guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 22-2) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, § 18.2-125
WICKLIFFE CEMETERY
§ 91.15 SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERY.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her appointee shall serve as the
Superintendent of the cemetery.
(1997 Code, § 22-31)
§ 91.16 CEMETERY PLOTS.
   (A)   Costs; charges. 
      (1)   Charges. The cost of a cemetery burial plot, deeded to the name of
an individual residing within the corporate limits of the town, will available
at a cost set by Council from time to time. The cost of a cemetery burial plot,
deeded to the name of an individual residing outside the corporate limits of
the town, will be available at a cost set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   Maintenance fee. Maintenance fees are levied on those graves
originally purchased for a resident that are being used to bury a nonresident.
The maintenance fee charged shall be the difference from the original purchase
price and the current out- of-town grave cost, not to exceed a maximum fee set
by Council from time to time. This fee shall be paid prior to interment and may
be refunded to the individual paying the maintenance fee by act of Council upon
a request in writing, if it can be demonstrated that the body being interred
had been a long-term resident of 18 years or greater in the town.
   (B)   Plot changing. A body, or cremated remains, may not be removed from
its original plot to another plot in the cemetery, except when there has been a
purchase of another plot wherein the body, or cremated remains, will be placed.
In this event, there will be no refund or exchange for the original plot.
   (C)   Organizational ownership. Where a cemetery plot is deeded to a church,
lodge, society, company or corporation, that organization will exercise consent
or will designate the individuals to be interred in the plot.
   (D)   Interment of 1 body.  
      (1)   Not more than 1 body nor the remains of more than 1 body will be
interred in 1 cemetery plot.
      (2)   Pre-existing grave (in place prior to this policy change): a
cremain can be added to existing casket in a grave or a cremain can be added to
another cremain already in a grave.
   (E)   Transfer of deed.  No transfer or assignment of any cemetery plot, or
interest therein, will be valid without the consent in writing of the Town
Manager upon approval by the Council. A transfer or assignment will not be
valid until any indebtedness is paid for the cemetery plot. A transfer or
assignment of ownership in a cemetery plot will be subject to a charge of $15,
which fee must be paid to the town prior to the transfer or assignment.
   (F)   Resale, exchange or trade. The resale, exchange or trade of a cemetery
plot is prohibited, except that the owner may be refunded by the town for the
purchase of the plot, less a $15 fee for the deed transfer to the town. The
refund will be that amount described as the cost of a burial plot in division
(A) of this section.
   (G)   Notification of owner’s address change. It will be the responsibility
of the plot owner to notify the town of any change in his or her post office
address.
   (H)   When graves are purchased, the purchaser or owner listed on the deed
needs to specify who will be buried in each grave. This can only be changed if
all living parties provide a notarized document confirming the change(s) is
agreeable with each of them.
(1997 Code, § 22-32) (Ord. passed 8-12-1997; Am. Ord. passed 4-10-2012)
§ 91.17 INTERMENT, DISINTERMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to be notified a minimum of 24 hours prior
to any interment and at least 3 working days prior to any disinterment or
removal.
   (B)   The town is not liable nor will assume responsibility for interment,
disinterments or removals. No interment, disinterments or removals will be
performed without the consent of the legal representative of the deceased, or
without a court order.
   (C)   The Superintendent of the cemetery will give directions in connection
with the opening of a cemetery plot for the purpose of interment therein.
(1997 Code, § 22-33)
§ 91.18 CEMETERY IMPROVEMENTS OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Improvements or alterations of property within the cemetery will be
under the direction of, and subject to the consent and approval of, the
Superintendent of the cemetery. He or she will have the right to remove, to
alter or to change improvements or alterations at the expense of the property
owner.
   (B)   All grading, landscaping and improvements of any kind and all care of
property will be done with the consent and direction of the Superintendent of
the cemetery. Trees, shrubs, grass and herbage of any kind will be planted,
trimmed, cut, pruned or removed in the manner prescribed in this section.
   (C)   No work will be done on property as described in divisions (A) and (B)
of this section except by employees of the town.
(1997 Code, § 22-34)
§ 91.19 FLOWERS, ORNAMENTS AND DECORATIONS.
   (A)   Artificial flowers. Artificial flowers are not permitted on plots or
graves during grass cutting season, March 1 through October 1, except on
headstones.
   (B)   Prohibition of certain ornaments.  The placing of vases, shells, toys,
metal designs, ornaments, chairs, settees, glass, wood or iron cases and
similar articles upon cemetery lots or graves is prohibited.
   (C)   Potted plants and cut flowers. Potted plants and fresh cut flowers
will be permitted upon plots and graves on holidays, anniversary dates or other
special dates or occasions. If not carried away within 7 days from the
placement date, they will be removed and disposed of. At all other times,
potted plants and fresh cut flowers will be removed and disposed of at the time
of mowing or trimming of the plots and graves.
   (D)   Removal after interment.  Flowers, baskets, wreaths, designs, frames
and ornaments will be removed from a grave or plot within 1 week after
interment. If not carried away during this period, they will be removed and
disposed of.
(1997 Code, § 22-35) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.20 CHANGING BOUNDARIES.
   The right to enlarge, reduce, replan or change the boundaries or grading of
the cemetery and those designated plots, roads, drives and walks, or any part
of the cemetery which is not sold to individual plot owners of the town, is
hereby expressly reserved by the town.
(1997 Code, § 22-36)
§ 91.21 MARKERS, CORNERS AND BORDERS.
   (A)   With a view to making and keeping the cemetery as a whole uniform and
beautiful and easier to maintain, markers, cornerstones and borders will be
flush and flat with the ground and set to the contour of the ground. Headstones
may be above the ground.
   (B)   Headstones, markers, cornerstones and borders will be made of marble,
granite or suitable stone and may be inlaid or ornamented with metal.
(1997 Code, § 22-37)
§ 91.22 MAUSOLEUMS OR VAULTS.
   (A)   Mausoleums or vaults above the ground will not be permitted.
   (B)   All caskets or urns must be encased in either a metal or concrete
vault, except in extreme hardship cases.
(1997 Code, § 22-38) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire Department Fund
   
92.02   Traffic regulation; enforcing officers at fire
   
92.03   Failure to obey directions of enforcing officers
   
92.04   Protection of property and firefighting equipment during fires
   
92.05   Use of community building by Fire Department
Fireworks
   
92.15   Manufacture, transportation, sale, storage and use
   
92.16   Seizure and destruction of certain fireworks
   
92.17   Permits for display of fireworks; sales for use under permits
   
92.18   Exemptions generally
   
92.19   Inapplicable to certain fireworks; fireworks to be used only on private
property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Effect of Statewide Fire Prevention Code, see VA Code, § 27-97
   Explosive and inflammable substances, fireworks, see VA Code, § 15.2-1113
   Explosives, see VA Code, §§ 59.1-137 et seq.
   Fireworks, see VA Code, §§ 27-95 et seq.
   Fuel-burning equipment, see VA Code, § 15.2-1116
   Guarding against danger from accidents by fire, see VA Code, § 15.1-15(4)
   Local fire departments and fire companies, see VA Code, §§ 27-6.1 et seq.
   Local fire marshals, see VA Code, §§ 27-30 et seq.
   Municipal regulation of the keeping of combustibles, see VA Code, § 15.2-
2029
   Municipal regulation of the making of fires, see VA Code, § 15.2-1118
   Relief for firefighters, see VA Code, §§ 27-39 et seq.
   Smoke detectors, see VA Code, § 15.2-922
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT FUND.
   The Volunteer Fire Department shall be allowed to handle all funds which
they themselves make for the Department. They shall have a bonded treasurer who
reports all funds received and disbursed, the reports being made to the Fire
Department quarterly and to the Council annually. A committee composed of
members of the Council shall serve as consultants of the Fire Department.
(1997 Code, § 34-1)
§ 92.02 TRAFFIC REGULATION; ENFORCING OFFICERS AT FIRE.
   If the Chief of the local Volunteer Fire Department is not acting in case of
fire, then the acting chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall have
authority to designate persons to direct traffic and to do all such other acts
as might be done by the Chief if acting personally.
(1997 Code, § 34-2)
§ 92.03 FAILURE TO OBEY DIRECTIONS OF ENFORCING OFFICERS.
   Any person failing to obey the direction of the persons so designated under
§ 92.02 shall be guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 34-3) Penalty, see
§ 92.99
§ 92.04 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY AND FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT DURING FIRES.
   (A)   In order to prevent vandalism such as the breaking out of windows and
the like by outsiders, the Fire Chief or officer in charge is hereby deputized
an officer of the town during the firefighting period for the protection of
property of individuals and also the firefighting equipment. He or she is also
empowered to prevent those things which impede firefighting.
   (B)   Those convicted of damaging property or in any way impeding
firefighting shall be deemed guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 34-4) Penalty, see
§ 92.99
§ 92.05 USE OF COMMUNITY BUILDING BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   When the Fire Department uses the community building for the benefit of the
Department, they shall be exempt from the payment of rent, but shall see that
the building is left clean and in proper order.
(1997 Code, § 34-5)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.15 MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTATION, SALE, STORAGE AND USE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to transport, manufacture, store, sell, offer for sale or expose
for sale; or to buy, use, ignite or explode any firecracker, torpedo, skyrocket
or other substance or thing, of whatever form or construction, that contains
any explosive or inflammable compound or substance; and is intended or commonly
known as fireworks and which explodes, rises into the air or travels laterally,
or fires projectiles into the air, other than sparks or those fireworks
excepted under the provisions of
§ 92.19(A).
   (B)   Unless prohibited pursuant to VA Code,
§§ 27.95 et seq., the provisions of division (A) of this section shall not be
applicable to any person who manufactures, stores, markets and distributes
fireworks for the sole purpose of fireworks displays permitted under
§ 92.17 or the laws of other states.
(1997 Code, § 34-36) Penalty, see
§ 92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code, §§ 27-95 et seq.
§ 92.16 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN FIREWORKS.
   Any law enforcement officer arresting any person for a violation of this
subchapter shall seize any article mentioned in
§ 92.15 in the possession or under the control of the person so arrested and
shall hold the article until final disposition of any criminal proceedings
against the person. If a judgment of conviction is entered against the person,
the court shall order destruction of the articles upon expiration of the time
allowed for appeal of the judgment of conviction.
(1997 Code, § 34-37)
§ 92.17 PERMITS FOR DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS; SALES FOR USE UNDER PERMITS.
   The Council shall have the power to provide for the issuance of permits,
upon application in writing, for the display of fireworks by fair associations,
amusement parks, or by any organization or group of individuals, under such
terms and conditions as the Council may prescribe. After the permit has been
issued, sales of fireworks may be made for use under the permit, and the
association, organization or group to which it is issued may make use of the
fireworks under the terms and conditions of the permit.  
(1997 Code, § 34-38)
§ 92.18 EXEMPTIONS GENERALLY.
   This subchapter shall have no application to any officer or member of the
armed forces of this commonwealth, or of the United States, while acting within
the scope of his or her authority and duties as such, nor to any offer of sale
or sale of fireworks to any authorized agent of the armed forces; nor shall it
be applicable to the sale or use of materials or equipment, otherwise
prohibited by this subchapter, when the materials or equipment is used or to be
used by any person for signaling or other emergency use in the operation of any
boat, railroad train or other vehicle for the transportation of persons or
property.
(1997 Code, § 34-40)
§ 92.19 INAPPLICABLE TO CERTAIN FIREWORKS; SUCH FIREWORKS TO BE USED ONLY ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to the use or the sale of sparklers,
fountains, Pharaoh’s serpents, caps for pistols, or to pinwheels commonly known
as whirligigs or spinning jennies.
   (B)   The fireworks listed in division (A) of this section may only be used,
ignited or exploded on private property with the consent of the owner of the
property.
(1997 Code, § 34-41) Penalty, see
§ 92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Unless specified in this section, violations comprising misdemeanor
classifications are identified in individual sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be punished by
confinement in jail not to exceed 12 months, or by a fine not exceeding $1,000,
or both the fine and imprisonment.
(1997 Code, § 34-39)
CHAPTER 93: SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
93.01   Prohibited acts
   
93.02   Enumeration of certain acts declared to be loud and disturbing
   
93.03   Operation of loudspeakers, audio systems or any sound-amplifying
devices
Nuisances
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Common or statutory law
   
93.17   Abatement procedure
   
93.18   Animal nuisances
   
93.19   Abatement of public nuisance by town; costs taxed
   
93.20   Abatement costs of nuisances created on town property
   
93.21   Liability imposed by other laws not decreased
   
93.22   Enforcement by injunction
Weeds, Grass and Other Foreign Growth
   
93.35   Removal from vacant lots
   
93.36   Removal from occupied lots
Litter
   
93.40   Litter control
Methamphetamine Lab Cleanup
   
93.50   Reimbursement for expenses incurred from methamphetamine lab cleanup
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Action for abatement of nuisance or the costs thereof, see VA Code, § 15.2-
900
   Contracts relating to prevention of water pollution, see VA Code, § 15.3-
2124
   Extraterritorial powers in prevention of water pollution, see VA Code, §
15.2-2109
   Local air pollution ordinances, see VA Code, § 10.1-1321
   Municipal abatement of nuisances, see VA Code, § 15.2-2013
   Municipal power to have nuisances removed, collection of costs, see VA Code,
§ 15.2-1115
   Removal of weeds and other foreign growth, see VA Code, § 15.2-901
NOISE
§ 93.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued any loud or unusual noise or any noise which disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of others
within the town.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall, upon conviction, be deemed
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 30-31) Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.02 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN ACTS DECLARED TO BE LOUD AND DISTURBING.
   The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be loud and
disturbing noises and a public nuisance in violation of
§ 93.01, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public
place of this town, except as a danger warning; the creation of noise by means
of a signaling device for any unreasonable period of time; the use of any
signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any
horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any
such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up;
   (B)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing. Yelling, shouting,
hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
   (C)   Schools, courts, churches and hospitals.  The creation of any noise on
any street adjacent to any school, institute of learning, church or court while
the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes
with the working of the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in
the streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court street; and
   (D)   Certain machine or devices regulated:
      (1)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, phonograph or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person or persons who are in the room, vehicle, chamber or place in which the
machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto, shall be
deemed a violation.
      (2)   The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph machine,
radio or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the building structure, vehicle or unit or to project beyond property
lines as to annoy neighboring residents shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
      (3)   (a)   Applications for a permit for relief from the noise level
designated in this section on the basis of undue hardship or for special
activities may be made to the Town Manager or his or her duly authorized
representative. Any permit granted by the Town Manager hereunder shall contain
all conditions upon which the permit has been granted and shall specify a
reasonable time that the permit shall be effective. This authorization may
prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse
effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
         (b)   Any permit issued pursuant to division (D)(3)(a) of this section
shall be valid no longer than 1 year from the date it is issued.
(1997 Code, §§ 30-32, 30-33) (Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Ord. passed 9-14-1999)
Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.03 OPERATION OF LOUDSPEAKERS, AUDIO SYSTEMS OR ANY SOUND-AMPLIFYING
DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any loudspeaker, audio
system or any device that amplifies sound on any street, sidewalk or alley of
the town, without a special permit from the Mayor, or unless provided otherwise
within this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall, upon conviction, be deemed
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 30-33) Penalty, see
§ 93.99
NUISANCES
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Every activity or condition that endangers life or health,
obstructs the reasonable and comfortable use of property, gives offense to the
senses so as to cause a positive and material disturbance or annoyance in the
use or occupation of property or as described in
§ 93.18(B) or (C) shall be deemed to be a public nuisance.
(1997 Code, § 30-51)
Statutory reference:
   Offensive annoyances, see VA Code, § 15.2-2013
§ 93.16 COMMON OR STATUTORY LAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain within the town
anything which is deemed a nuisance under the common law or the state statutes.
If such a nuisance is not elsewhere prohibited by this code, the creation or
maintenance of the nuisance shall be deemed to be a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 30-53) Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Owner’s responsibility to abate. Every activity or condition which has
been declared to be a public nuisance by the Council pursuant to the procedure
set forth in this section shall be abated by the owner or occupant of the
property from which the public nuisance emanates. The abatement shall be
accomplished at the expense of the owner or occupant.
   (B)   Notice and hearing prior to declaration of public nuisance. Prior to
declaring the activity or condition in question a public nuisance, the owner or
occupant shall be afforded reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing
before the Council, which shall, if necessary, specially convene for this
purpose.
   (C)   Time limit for owner abatement; failure by owner to abate; abatement
by town.  If, after the hearing duly held before the Council, the Council finds
that the activity or condition complained of is in fact a public nuisance, the
Council shall give the owner or occupant a reasonable time to abate the public
nuisance, taking into account the urgency of the need for abatement and the
difficulty involved in abatement. Failure by the owner to abate the public
nuisance within the time limit shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and shall be punishable as prescribed in
§ 93.99. Upon the failure of the owner or occupant to abate the public nuisance
within the time limit as established by the Council, the Town Manager or any
duly authorized agent of the town may abate the public nuisance by whatever
means are deemed reasonable and necessary by the Town Manager.
   (D)   Emergency abatement procedures.  Should any public nuisance be of such
a nature as to pose an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public,
the public nuisance shall be abated immediately by the owner or occupant of the
property from which the public nuisance emanates or arises.
      (1)   If the public nuisance is of a serious and immediate nature as to
pose an imminent threat to the health and safety of the community, or any part
of the town, or should the public nuisance fall within the legal classification
of a public nuisance per se, or a public nuisance in fact, the Town Manager or
other duly authorized agent of the town shall cause the town police to serve
notice upon the owner or occupant of the property from which the public
nuisance emanates to abate the public nuisance within a period as the Town
Manager deems expedient for public health and safety.
      (2)   If the owner fails to abate the public nuisance, the Town Manager
or duly authorized agent may take immediate and summary action to abate the
public nuisance to the extent that the imminence and the seriousness of the
public nuisance is reasonably reduced to a safe level. In this event, the right
to notice and hearing to the owner or occupant of the property from which the
public nuisance emanates or arises shall be afforded the owner as soon after
the public nuisance is abated as is possible. The Council shall at the hearing
render a decision as to the permanent abatement of the public nuisance, and the
decision shall be implemented in the same manner as provided in division (C) of
this section.
      (3)   The decision of the Council shall be subject to judicial review by
the County Circuit Court upon appeal to that court.
(1997 Code, § 30-54)
§ 93.18 ANIMAL NUISANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL or FOWL. Every animal or fowl, specifically including dogs, kept
within the boundaries of the town. The term ANIMAL shall refer to both animals
and fowls.
      OWN and OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal and any
person who keeps or harbors an animal or has it in his or her care, or who acts
as its custodian, and any person who permits an animal to remain on or about
any premises occupied by him or her.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE.  
         (a)   Any animal that molests passers-by or passing vehicles or
interferes with traffic;
         (b)   Any animal that attacks other animals;
         (c)   Any animal that trespasses on school grounds and interferes with
school activities;
         (d)   Any animal that habitually turns over garbage cans of any person
other than the owner or custodian of the animal;
         (e)   Any animal that damages private or public property;
         (f)   Any animal that by loud, frequent or habitual crying, barking,
howling or other noise causes disturbance to the peace and quiet of any person
or neighborhood; and
         (g)   Any aggregation of animals creating a foul odor.
   (B)   Keeping of animals in a manner which constitutes public nuisance. The
keeping of any animals within the boundaries of the town in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance as that term is defined in
§ 93.15, or as set forth in division (A) of this section, is prohibited and
shall be abated by the owner of the animals and shall be subject to the
abatement procedures of §§
93.17 through
93.20.
   (C)   Repeated complaints. Any animals causing a disturbance in any manner
described in this section or any combination so as to cause complaint to the
town by the persons so disturbed 3 or more times within a period of 60 days
shall constitute a public nuisance within the meaning of this section.
      (1)   Upon receipt of this complaint the town police shall serve upon the
owner of the offending animals notice of the complaint, along with a copy of §§
93.15 through
93.22 and 93.99.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the second and third complaints the owner shall
be served with similar notices; the third notice stating that the offending
animals appear to constitute a public nuisance and are subject to abatement
procedures under §§
93.17 through
93.20.
      (3)   In addition to the provisions of this division, any animals causing
a disturbance in any manner described in this section shall constitute an
apparent public nuisance within the meaning of
§ 93.15 and subject to the abatement procedures under §§
93.17 through
93.20, if no less than 3 persons familiar with the animals petition the town
complaining about the animals causing the disturbance.
   (D)   Abatement.  Any owner of animals so reported as being public nuisances
shall be subject to the procedure set forth in
§ 93.17 and upon a finding by the Council that the animals constitute a public
nuisance, the Council shall give the owner of the animals reasonable time to
take any measures as may be reasonably necessary to abate the nuisance,
including but not limited to confining the animals or removing the animals
beyond the town limits. Upon the failure of the owner to comply with the
abatement order of the Council within the prescribed time, the town may
confiscate the animals and dispose of them according to law. Failure by the
owner to comply with the order shall constitute a violation of this subchapter
and shall be punishable as prescribed in
§ 93.99.
(1997 Code, § 30-55) Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.19 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE BY TOWN; COSTS TAXED.
   Where any public nuisance is abated by the town pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter, the costs of the abatement shall be taxed against the owner
or occupant of the property from which the public nuisance emanates or arises.
The town shall send by certified mail to the owner a bill for the costs of the
abatement with the notation thereon that the charges are collectible by the
town in any manner provided by law for the collection of state and local taxes,
and that failure to pay the bill within 60 days of the date of the bill will
result in the institution of collection procedures. Upon the owner’s failure to
pay the bill by the date set thereon the Town Manager may, pursuant to law,
institute any collection procedures as he or she may deem necessary.
(1997 Code, § 30-56)
§ 93.20 ABATEMENT COSTS OF NUISANCES CREATED ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   Whenever any person or business causes a public nuisance to exist on
property belonging to the town lying within or beyond the corporate limits of
the town, and the town abates the nuisance under this subchapter’s provisions,
the person or business shall be taxed with the costs of the abatement as
provided under
§ 93.19.
(1997 Code, § 30-57)
§ 93.21 LIABILITY IMPOSED BY OTHER LAWS NOT DECREASED.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as making lawful any
act or omission which is unlawful, or as decreasing the liability, civil or
criminal, of any person, imposed by existing laws.
(1997 Code, § 30-58)
§ 93.22 ENFORCEMENT BY INJUNCTION.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the town from enforcing
the terms of this subchapter by means of an injunction obtained in the County
Circuit Court.
(1997 Code, § 30-59)
WEEDS, GRASS AND OTHER FOREIGN GROWTH
§ 93.35 REMOVAL FROM VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   Failure of owner to remove; abatement by town; costs; lien;
collection. The owners of all vacant property within the town shall cut and
remove weeds, grass and other foreign growth from the lots at intervals to be
designated by the Council, and upon their failure to do so the Town Manager may
have the weeds, grass and other foreign growth cut and removed and may charge
the owner with the cost of the removal. Every charge authorized by this section
with which the owner of any such property shall have been assessed which
remains unpaid shall constitute a lien against the property and may be
collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
   (B)   Notice; failure of owner to abate; additional notice with deadline;
abatement by town; costs. Reasonable notice of the date fixed by the Council
for the removal of the weeds, grass or other foreign growth shall be given by
newspaper publication, mail or by delivery of a written notice to each property
owner. Upon the failure of the property owner to cut and remove the weeds,
grass or other foreign growth by the date fixed, the Town Manager shall notify
the property owner by certified mail that he or she has 15 days from the date
of the notice to remove the weeds, grass or other foreign growth, and that upon
his or her failure to so remove the Town Manager shall have the weeds, grass or
other foreign growth removed and shall charge the costs to the owner.
   (C)   Bill of costs; perfection of lien; collection. Upon the completion of
the removal, the Town Manager shall send by certified mail to the owner a bill
for the costs of the removal with the notation thereon that the charges are
collectible by the town as taxes and levies, and that failure to pay the bill
within 60 days of the date of the bill will result in a lien being perfected
against the property and the institution of other collection procedures. Upon
the owner’s failure to pay the bill by the date set thereon, the Town Manager
shall perfect the lien by recording the lien in the Clerk’s office of the
County Circuit Court and may, pursuant to law, institute any collection
procedures as he or she may deem necessary.
(1997 Code, § 74-31)
§ 93.36 REMOVAL FROM OCCUPIED LOTS.
   (A)   Failure of owner to remove; abatement by town; costs; lien;
collection. The owners of all occupied property within the town shall cut and
remove weeds, grass and other foreign growth from the lots at intervals to be
designated by the Council, and upon their failure to do so the Town Manager may
have the weeds, grass and other foreign growth cut and removed and may charge
the owner with the cost of removal. Every charge authorized by this section
with which the owner of any such property shall have been assessed which
remains unpaid shall constitute a lien against that property and may be
collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
   (B)   Notice; failure of owner to abate; additional notice with deadline;
abatement by town; costs. Reasonable notice of the date fixed by the Council
for the removal of the weeds, grass or other foreign growth shall be given by
newspaper publication, mail or by delivery of a written notice to each property
owner. Upon the failure of the property owner to cut and remove the weeds,
grass or other foreign growth by the date fixed, the Town Manager shall notify
the property owner by certified mail that he or she has 15 days from the date
of the notice to remove the weeds, grass or other foreign growth, and that upon
his or her failure to remove the weeds, grass or other foreign growth, the Town
Manager shall have the same removed and shall charge the costs to the owner.
   (C)   Bill of costs; perfection of lien; collection. Upon the completion of
the removal, the Town Manager shall send by certified mail to the owner a bill
for the costs of the removal with the notation thereon that the charges are
collectible by the town as taxes and levies, and that failure to pay the bill
within 60 days of the date of the bill will result in a lien being perfected
against the property and the institution of other collection procedures. Upon
the owner’s failure to pay the bill by the date set thereon, the Town Manager
shall perfect the lien by recording the lien in the Clerk’s office of the
County Circuit Court and may, pursuant to law, institute any collection
procedures as he or she may deem necessary.
(1997 Code, § 74-32)
LITTER
§ 93.40 LITTER CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to these words when
used in this chapter:
      BULK WASTE. Items of residential litter, including furniture, appliances,
large cartons or similar materials which cannot be placed in containers in
accordance with the regulations herein set forth.
      BUSINESS WASTE. Any item of litter which results from the production,
storage or sale of merchandise, materials or services.
      CONSTRUCTION HAULER. Any private person, partnership, corporation or
association engaged in any aspect of the collection, transportation or disposal
of any refuse within the corporate limits of Brookneal.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE. Any residential, commercial, industrial or other area,
lot or site, where construction of any type is conducted, including roads,
buildings and all other places where construction, renovation or demolition,
active or inactive, is underway.
      CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Any building material or litter resulting from
erecting, repairing, remodeling or demolishing a structure.
      DEMOLITION WASTE. Any building material resulting from the removal or
razing of a structure.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material which the city deems to be potentially
dangerous, including, but not limited to, materials which are explosive,
combustible, toxic, disease-causing or radioactive.
      INSTITUTION. Any public or private establishment which educates,
instructs, treats for health purposes, or otherwise performs a service or need
for the community, region, state or nation.
      LITTER. All waste materials, odor-producing or non odor-producing,
including, but not limited to, bottles, glass, crockery, cans, scrap metal,
paper, plastic, rubber, garbage, cigarettes and cigarette stubs including cigar
butts, building materials, appliances, furniture, household furnishings, tires,
oils, paints, grease, diapers, personal hygienic items, disposable packages or
containers thrown or deposited as prohibited herein.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, association, firm,
receiver, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, fiduciary or
representative or group of individuals or entities of any kind.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property owned by any person, as defined herein,
including, but not limited to, yards, grounds, driveways, entrances or
passageways, parking areas, storage areas, any body of water, vacant land and
recreational facilities.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public
whether owned or operated by public or private interests.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public,
whether owned or operated by public or private interests, including, but not
limited to, highways, streets, alleys, parks, recreation areas, sidewalks,
medians, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds or other bodies of water.
      VEHICLE. Every device capable of being moved upon a public highway or
public waterway and then upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway or public waterway.
   (B)   Regulation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or otherwise dispose of
litter, a deceased companion animal, or other unsightly matter, on public
property, including a public highway, right-of-way, property adjacent to such
highway or right-of-way, or on private property without the written consent of
the owner thereof or his agent.
      (2)   When any person is arrested for a violation of this section, and
the matter alleged to have been illegally dumped or disposed of has been
ejected from a motor vehicle or transported to the disposal site in a motor
vehicle, the arresting officer may comply with the provisions of VA Code §
46.2-936 in making such arrest.
      (3)   When a violation of the provisions of this section has been
observed by any person, and the matter illegally dumped or disposed of has been
ejected or removed from a motor vehicle, the owner or operator of such motor
vehicle shall be presumed to be the person ejecting or disposing of such
matter. However, such presumption shall be rebuttable by competent evidence.
   (C)   Commercial establishments and institutions.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each owner, occupant, proprietor or
operator of any business, industry or institution situated within the town at
all times to keep his premises clean of litter thrown or left on the premises
by customers or generated by the business's, industry's or institution's
operation, and to take reasonable measures to prevent the same from drifting or
blowing to adjoining premises. The premises include, but are not restricted to,
public and private sidewalks, roads, street gutters, alleys, grounds, parking
lots, loading and unloading areas and all vacant lots which are owned or leased
by said establishment or institution or are adjacent thereto.
      (2)   Receptacles. Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be
placed on the premises accessible to customers and employees of any business,
industry or institution where articles of waste may be disposed of.
(Ord. passed - - )
METHAMPHETAMINE LAB CLEANUP
§ 93.50 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES INCURRED FROM METHAMPHETAMINE LAB CLEANUP.
   Any person convicted of an offense for the manufacture of methamphetamine
under VA Code § 18.2-248 or VA Code § 18.2-248.03, (or any future amended or
revised section of Virginia Code) shall, at the time of sentencing or in a
separate civil action, be liable to the town for restitution of expenses
incurred in the cleanup of any methamphetamine lab related to the conviction.
The amount charged shall not exceed the actual expenses incurred associated
with cleanup, removal or repair of the affected property, or the replacement
cost of personal protective equipment used.
(Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   See VA Code § 15.2-1716.2
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Unless specified in this section, violations comprising misdemeanor
classifications are identified in individual sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.22 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 30-52)
CHAPTER 94: AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS; JUNKYARDS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Imposition of license tax; assessment; payment due date
   
94.03   Location restrictions; exceptions
   
94.04   Permit to operate; application contents; hearing, appeal
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local limitations as to number of pawnshops, see VA Code, § 54.1-4002
   Local regulation of automobile graveyards and junkyards, see VA Code, §
15.2-903
   Municipal regulation of pawnshops and secondhand dealers, see VA Code, §
15.2-1114
   Permit for trading in secondhand building fixtures, see VA Code, §§ 59.1-
117, 59.1-118
   Report by dealer in junk or secondhand personal property to Chief of Police
or Sheriff, see VA Code, § 59.1-121
   Sale or exchange of secondhand watches, see VA Code, §§ 59.1-131 et seq.
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARDS. Any lot or place which is exposed to the weather and
upon which more than 5 motor vehicles of any kind incapable of being operated,
and which it would not be economically practicable to make operative, are
placed, located or found.
   JUNKYARD.  An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and these terms shall
include garbage dumps and sanitary fills.
(1997 Code, § 50-31)
§ 94.02 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE TAX; ASSESSMENT; PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   There is hereby imposed an annual license tax in accordance with VA Code, §
15.2-903, upon automobile graveyards and junkyards in the amount of $100. These
license taxes shall be assessed and paid to the town on or before January 31 of
each calendar year.
(1997 Code, § 50-33)
§ 94.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No junkyard shall be established, any portion of which is within 1,000 feet
of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of any interstate or primary highway or
within 500 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of any other highway,
except the following:
   (A)   Junkyards which are screened by natural objects, plantings, fences or
other appropriate means so as not to be visible from the main-traveled way of
the highway or street, or adjacent property, or otherwise removed from sight;
   (B)   Junkyards which are located in areas which are zoned for industrial
use under authority of state law or in unzoned industrial areas as determined
by the Commonwealth Transportation Board; and
   (C)   Junkyards which are not visible from the main-traveled way of the
highway, street or adjacent property.
(1997 Code, § 50-34)
§ 94.04 PERMIT TO OPERATE; APPLICATION CONTENTS; HEARING, APPEAL.
   (A)   An application shall be made in writing to the Council for a permit to
operate an automobile junkyard. This application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the junkyard owner; and
      (2)   A sketch showing the location of the junkyard, all roads entering
or adjacent to the property and all adjacent landowners and their names. The
sketch will be drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch.
   (B)   The Council shall publish a notice of a public hearing, giving
adjoining landowners and other citizens an opportunity to be heard. Evidence at
the public hearing shall be confined to proof of economic damage, if any, to be
caused by the junkyard.
      (1)   If the Council shall be satisfied that no economic damage will be
incurred, the Council shall issue the permit.
      (2)   If the Council feels neighboring property will be damaged by the
licensing of the junkyard, the permit shall be denied.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit by the Council shall
have the right to appeal the decision to the County Circuit Court.
(1997 Code, § 50-35)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 50-32)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
95.01   Obstructions prohibited; exception
   
95.02   Projecting porticoes, porches, doors or steps into or upon sidewalk
   
95.03   Projecting signs, awnings, goods, wares or merchandise above the street
or sidewalk
   
95.04   Projecting trees, plants or shrubs over streets or sidewalks
   
95.06   Removal of encroaching buildings, fences or other structures
   
95.07   Removal of snow, ice, sleet and mud from certain sidewalks
Charter reference:
   Encroachments on streets, alleys and other public places, see §
16
   Poles and wires, pipes in streets, see §
17
   Power of town to acquire property, see §
12
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle trails or paths, see VA Code, § 15.2-2001
   Limited access streets in cities and towns, see VA Code, § 15.2-2026
   Local authority over highways, see VA Code, §§ 33.1-224 et seq.
   Official map, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2233 et seq.
   Pipelines and other works in streets, roads, alleys and the like, see VA
Code, §§ 56-257 et seq.
   Streets, alleys, sidewalks and the like, generally, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-
2000 et seq.
§ 95.01 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, drop or cause to be put
any boxes, crates, lumber, wood, stone, glass, nails or other obstructions into
or upon any street or public place in the town. This section shall not be
construed to apply to building material placed on the street, sidewalk or alley
if the person placing the obstruction obtained a permit from the Mayor to do so
prior to that act and has acted as prescribed in the permit.
(1997 Code, § 54-1) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Temporary use of streets for other than public purposes, see VA Code, §
15.1-14(9)
§ 95.02 PROJECTING PORTICOES, PORCHES, DOORS OR STEPS INTO OR UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or place, or cause to
be constructed or placed, any portico, porch, door or step, which shall project
into or upon any sidewalk or paved walkway along any street in the town.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 54-2) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Preventing injury from anything dangerous, see VA Code, § 15.2-2013
§ 95.03 PROJECTING SIGNS, AWNINGS, GOODS, WARES OR MERCHANDISE ABOVE THE STREET
OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No sign, awning, goods, wares or merchandise or any other thing shall
be placed or allowed to remain above any street or sidewalk, unless pursuant to
the permission of and according to the directions of the Mayor.
   (B)   Any sign or awning projecting over the sidewalk or street shall be
adequately secured at least 8 feet above the street or sidewalk and shall not
be in an unsafe condition.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the word SIDEWALK means not only any
sidewalk on ground belonging to the town but also any ground belonging to
private parties which is alongside the sidewalk belonging to the town, is not
more than 3 feet therefrom and is not enclosed.
   (D)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 54-3) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permitting awnings and the like, over streets, see VA Code, § 15.2-2010
§ 95.04 PROJECTING TREES, PLANTS OR SHRUBS OVER STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property
abutting a street or sidewalk to allow any trees, plants or shrubs growing on
the property to project over the street or sidewalk in such a manner as to
obstruct or interfere with the safe passage of vehicles or pedestrians.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 54-4) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Preventing injury from anything dangerous, see VA Code, § 15.2-2013
§ 95.05 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHING BUILDINGS, FENCES OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   In every case of encroachment upon a street by a building, fence or other
structure, the owner or maintainer may be required to remove the same. For
failure to make the removal within the time ordered by the Council, the owner
or maintainer of the building, fence or other structure shall be guilty of a
Class 4 misdemeanor and, upon this failure, the Council may require the
encroachment to be removed at the risk and cost of the person owning or
maintaining the encroachment.
(1997 Code, § 54-5) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Preventing injury from anything dangerous, see VA Code, § 15.2-2013
§ 95.06 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, SLEET AND MUD FROM CERTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Removal requirements. It shall be the duty of the owner and/or
occupant of every building or structure located in the town which has a
sidewalk or footway of brick, stone, wood, concrete or other permanent material
adjoining or touching upon the same to have all snow removed from sidewalk or
footway. It shall be removed within 2 hours after normal business opening hours
on Monday through Saturday in business zones B-1 and B-2, and not later than
10:00 a.m. in residential zones. This clearing shall be done to the width of
the sidewalk or a width of 5 feet, whichever is lesser. The same requirements
shall exist with respect to ice, sleet or mud on the sidewalks or footways,
except that the same, when it cannot be removed without injury to the sidewalk,
shall be covered, within the same period of time, with sawdust, ashes or other
material which will render it safe for travel.
   (B)   Notice for removal. The Town Manager may, after causing the owner and/
or occupant to be served with 2 hours’ notice of the requirements of this
section, and upon the owner’s and/or occupant’s failure to comply within the
time stated in the notice, cause the sidewalk to be cleaned or covered, which
work shall be at the expense of the owner and/or occupant.
   (C)   Abatement by town. In case there is no occupant of the premises, and
the owner or agent cannot be found, the Town Manager may cause the sidewalk to
be cleaned or covered, which work shall be at the expense of the owner and/or
occupant.
   (D)   Costs; collection; failure to pay to result in lien; perfection. Upon
the completion of the removal or covering, the Town Manager shall send by
certified mail to the owner and/or occupant a bill for the costs of the work
with the notation thereon that the charges are collectible by the town as taxes
and levies, and that failure to pay the bill within 60 days of the date of the
bill will result in a lien being perfected against the property and the
institution of other collection procedures. Upon the owner’s and/or occupant’s
failure to pay the bill by the date set thereon, the Town Manager shall perfect
the lien by recording the lien in the Clerk’s office of the County Circuit
Court and may, pursuant to law, institute any collection procedures as he or
she may deem necessary.
   (E)   Penalty for violation of section. In addition to the provisions of
divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section, violation of this section shall
constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 54-6) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of snow from sidewalks, see VA Code, § 15.2-1115
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Regulations
   
96.01   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
96.02   Weapons prohibited
   
96.03   Offensive language and unruly behavior prohibited
   
96.04   Glass containers prohibited
   
96.05   Shirt and shoes required
   
96.06   Gambling prohibited
   
96.07   Curfew; trespassing
   
96.08   Monopolizing use of fields or facilities prohibited
§ 96.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons may possess or use alcoholic beverages while
on the grounds of the Brookneal Recreational Park.
(1997 Code, § 16-51) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99 
§ 96.02 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons may possess any weapon as defined in VA Code §
46-6(a) openly or hidden from common observation, except as defined in VA Code
§ 46-6(b)(c) while on the grounds of the Brookneal Recreational Park.
(1997 Code, § 16-52) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 96.03 OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE AND UNRULY BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons may utter offensive language or engage in
loud, unruly, or disruptive behavior.
(1997 Code, § 16-53) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 96.04 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons may use, carry, or convey any glass container
while on the grounds of the Brookneal Recreational Park.
(1997 Code, § 16-54) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 96.05 SHIRT AND SHOES REQUIRED.
   All persons on the grounds of the Brookneal Recreational Park shall wear
shirts and shoes.
(1997 Code, § 16-55) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 96.06 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons shall engage in any wager or gambling while on
the grounds of the Brookneal Recreational Park.
(1997 Code, § 16-56) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 96.07 CURFEW; TRESPASSING.
   Park hours shall be sunrise to 9:00 p.m. April through October, and sunrise
to 6:00 p.m. November through March. Any person parking, standing, crossing, or
otherwise on the grounds beyond these hours shall be considered trespassing,
with the exception of a town-authorized or town-supervised activity.
(1997 Code, § 16-57) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 96.08 MONOPOLIZING USE OF FIELDS OR FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons, except those organizations authorized by the
Town Council, shall monopolize or use continuously any facilities within the
Brookneal Recreational Park. Game play or recreational activities shall be
limited to times of standard play and typical usage. In cases of basketball or
tennis court usages, the person or persons shall relinquish ½ of the facilities
to the person or persons requesting usage.
(1997 Code, § 16-58) (Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved for future legislation]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Loitering
   
130.02   Firearms; willfully discharging in public places
   
130.03   Firearms or similar weapons; pointing or brandishing
   
130.04   Firearms; reckless handling
§ 130.01 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99 
§ 130.02 FIREARMS; WILLFULLY DISCHARGING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully discharge or cause to
be discharged any firearm in any street in the town, or in any place of public
business, or place of public gathering; and if such conduct does not result in
bodily injury to another person, that person shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer in the
performance of his official duties, nor to any other person whose willful act
is otherwise justifiable or excusable at law in the protection of his life or
property, or is otherwise specifically authorized by law. In addition, this
section shall not apply to any hunting, a program or curriculum sponsored or
conducted with permission of a school, or while in or on an established
shooting range.
(1997 Code, § 46-34) (Ord. passed 10-12-1999) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 130.03 FIREARMS OR SIMILAR WEAPONS; POINTING OR BRANDISHING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to point or brandish any firearm,
as hereinafter described, or any object similar in appearance to a firearm,
whether capable of being fired or not, in such manner as to reasonably induce
fear in the mind of another; or hold a firearm in a public place in such a
manner as to reasonably induce fear in the mind of another of being shot or
injured.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the word FIREARM shall mean any weapon
in which ammunition may be used or discharged, by explosion, or pneumatic
pressure. The word AMMUNITION, as used herein, shall mean a cartridge, pellet,
ball, missile, or projectile adapted for use in a firearm.
   (C)   Any police officer, in the performance of duty in making an arrest
under the provision of this section shall not be civilly liable in damages for
injuries or death resulting to the person being arrested if the officer had
reason to believe that the person being arrested was pointing, holding, or
brandishing such firearm or object which was similar in appearance to a
firearm, with intent to induce fear in the mind of another.
    (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person engaged
in excusable or justifiable self- defense.
   (E)   Persons violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 46-35) (Ord. passed 10-12-1999) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 130.04 FIREARMS; RECKLESS HANDLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to handle recklessly any firearm,
so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of any person.
   (B)   If this section is violated while the person is engaged in hunting,
trapping, or pursuing game, the trial judge may, in addition to the fine and/or
jail sentence imposed, revoke such person’s hunting or trapping license or
privilege to hunt or trap while possessing a firearm for a period of one year.
   (C)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 46-36) (Ord. passed 10-12-1999) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Construction to be done in accordance with Uniform Statewide Building
Code
   
150.02   Permit required
   
150.03   Power of inspection
   
150.04   Dilapidated or dangerous buildings
   
150.05   Removal and repair of buildings and other structures or nuisances
Statutory reference:
   Access to and use of buildings by handicapped, see VA Code, § 2.2-1159 -
2.2-1161
   Buildings, monuments and lands of local governments, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-
1638 et seq.
   Dangerous buildings and other structures, see VA Code, § 15.2-906
   Display of numbers on buildings, see VA Code, § 15.2-2024
   Fences around swimming pools, see VA Code, § 15.1-29
   Light, ventilation and sanitation of buildings and premises, see VA Code, §
15.2-1117
   Local licensing of certain contractors, see VA Code, § 54.1-1117
   Regulations concerning the building of houses, see VA Code, § 15.1-15(1)
   Uniform Statewide Building Code, see VA Code, §§ 36-97 et seq.
   Virginia Industrialized Building Safety Law, see VA Code, §§ 36-70 et seq.
§ 150.01 CONSTRUCTION TO BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH UNIFORM STATEWIDE BUILDING
CODE.
   No person shall be allowed to construct any building within the corporate
limits of the town, except in accordance with the Virginia Uniform Statewide
Building Code.
(1997 Code, § 14-1)
§ 150.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct any business, house, warehouse, factory,
residence, barn, stable, garage or any other building of any kind, or make any
extensive alterations to any building within the corporate limits, without
first applying in writing to the Council for a permit to do so, which written
request shall set forth the location and nature of the building, alteration or
improvement; the purpose for which it is to be used; and the materials of which
it is to be constructed or made.
(1997 Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 150.03 POWER OF INSPECTION.
   The building official, Fire Chief or Chief of Police shall have the right at
any reasonable time to enter into or upon any building, not at the time used as
a dwelling house, or any premises, within the corporate limits, for the
examination as to combustible material or inflammable conditions in any
building or upon the premises. Whenever any combustible material or inflammable
condition, dangerous to the safety of the building or premises, is found, the
same shall be ordered removed or remedied within a reasonable time to be fixed
by order of the Mayor or building official, Fire Chief or Chief of Police.
(1997 Code, § 14-4) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 150.04 DILAPIDATED OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   Section 150.03 shall apply in a like manner to buildings becoming dangerous
from fire or collapsing by reason of falling into decay or being badly out of
repair, and the penalty shall be the same as in
§ 10.99.
(1997 Code, § 14-5) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 150.05 REMOVAL AND REPAIR OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES OR NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owners of property within the town shall, at such times as the
Council may prescribe, remove, repair or secure any building, wall or any other
structure which might endanger the public health or safety of other residents
of the town.
   (B)   The Council, through its own agents or employees, may remove, repair
or secure any building, wall or other structure which might endanger the public
health or safety of other residents of the town, wherein the owner of the
property, after reasonable notice and reasonable time to do so, has failed to
remove, repair or secure the building, wall or other structure.
   (C)   If the Council of the town, through its own agents or employees,
removes, repairs or secures any building, wall or any other structure after
complying with the notice provisions of this section, the cost or expenses
shall be chargeable to and paid by the owners of the property and may be
collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
   (D)   Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of any
such property shall have been assessed and remains unpaid shall constitute a
lien against the property.
   (E)   The provisions of VA Code, § 15.2-906, shall apply to this section.
(1997 Code, § 14-6)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to require removal, repair and the like of buildings and
other structures, see VA Code, § 15.2-906
CHAPTER 151: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Authorization
   
151.03   Application
   
151.04   Inspection and enforcement
   
151.05   Definitions
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
   
151.15   Plan submission
   
151.16   Procedures for plan submission and review; inspection and enforcement
   
151.17   Regulated land-disturbing activities
   
151.18   Standards and specifications of sediment control plan techniques;
format
   
151.19   Approval of plan
   
151.20   Certification; bonding of performance
   
151.21   Issuance of land-disturbing permit
Administration
   
151.35   Fees
   
151.36   Monitoring, reports and inspections
   
151.37   Amendment of plan
   
151.38   Administrative appeal; judicial review
   
151.39   Liability; legal action to enforce
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Erosion and sediment control, see VA Code, §§ 10.1-560 et seq.
   Stormwater management, see VA Code, §§ 10.1-603.3, 15.2-2114
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the land, water, air and other
natural resources of the town and to promote the public health and welfare of
the people in the town by establishing requirements for the control of erosion
and sedimentation, and by establishing procedures for the administration and
enforcement of these controls.
(1997 Code, § 30-71)
§ 151.02 AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is authorized by VA Code, §§ 10.1-560 et seq., known as the
Erosion and Sediment Control Law.
(1997 Code, § 30-72)
§ 151.03 APPLICATION.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, no person may engage in
any land-disturbing activity until the person has submitted to the town and has
had reviewed by and has been approved by the Administrator an erosion and
sediment control plan for the land-disturbing activity. It is the intent of
this chapter to be an adjunct to any subdivision or any zoning ordinance, if
any, wherein the same applies to the development and subdivision of land within
the town or the same applies to development on previously subdivided or zoned
land, as the case may be, within the town.
(1997 Code, § 30-74)
§ 151.04 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Inspection and enforcement of this chapter shall rest with the
Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 30-75)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official designated by the Council to serve as its agent
to administer this chapter.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative ground cover, including
but not limited to the removal, root mat removal and/or topsoil removal.
   DISTRICT or SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A political subdivision of
this commonwealth organized in accordance with the provisions of VA Code, §§
10.1-506 et seq., as amended, in this instance the Robert E. Lee Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN or PLAN. A document containing material
for the conservation of soil and water resources of a unit or group of units of
land. It may include appropriate maps, an appropriate soil and water plan
inventory and management information with needed interpretations, and a record
of decisions contributing to conservation treatment. The PLAN shall contain all
major conservation decisions to ensure that the entire unit or group of units
of land will be so treated to achieve the conservation objectives.
   EXCAVATING. Any digging, scooping or other methods of removing earth
materials.
   FILLING. Any depositing or stockpiling of earth materials.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling of earth materials or any combination
thereof, including the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any land change which may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into waters or onto lands,
including but not limited to clearing, grading, excavating, transporting and
filling of land, except the noncontrolled activities defined in this section.
   LAND-DISTURBING PERMIT. A permit issued by the town for clearing, filling,
excavating, transporting or any combination thereof, on all lands except
privately owned, occupied or operated agricultural, horticultural or forestry
lands.
   NONCONTROLLED ACTIVITIES. Notwith- standing any other provision of this
chapter, in no circumstance or event shall the provisions of this chapter apply
to the following:
      (1)   Minor land-disturbing activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs and maintenance work;
      (2)   Individual service connections;
      (3)   Installation, maintenance or repair of any underground public
utility lines when the activity occurs on an existing hard-surfaced road,
street or sidewalk, provided the land-disturbing activity is confined to the
area of the road, street or sidewalk which is hard-surfaced;
      (4)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields, unless included in an overall
plan for land-disturbing activity relating to construction of the building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (5)   Surface or deep mining;
      (6)   Exploration or drilling for oil and gas including the well site,
roads, feeder lines and off-site disposal areas;
      (7)   Tilling, planting or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural or
forest crops, or livestock feedlot operations; including engineering operations
as follows: construction of terraces, terrace outlets, check dams, desilting
basins, dikes, ponds, ditches, strip cropping, lister furrowing, contour
cultivating, contour furrowing, land drainage and land irrigation; however,
this exception shall not apply to harvesting of forest crops unless the area on
which harvesting occurs is reforested artificially or naturally in accordance
with the provisions of VA Code, §§ 10.1-1100 et seq., or is converted to bona
fide agricultural or improved pasture use as described in VA Code, § 10.1-1163
(B);
      (8)   Repair or rebuilding of the tracks, rights-of-way, bridges,
communication facilities and other related structures and facilities of a
railroad company;
      (9) Agricultural engineering operations, including but not limited to the
construction of terraces, terrace outlets, check dams, desilting basins, dikes,
ponds not required to comply with the provisions of the Dam Safety Act (VA
Code, §§ 10.1-604 et seq.), ditches, strip cropping, lister furrowing, contour
cultivating, contour furrowing, land drainage and land irrigation;
      (10)   Disturbed land areas of less than 10,000 square feet in size;
however, the Town Council may reduce this exception to a smaller area of
disturbed land or qualify the conditions under which this exception shall
apply;
      (11)   Installation of fence and signposts or telephone and electric
poles and other kinds of posts or poles;
      (12)   Shore erosion control projects on tidal waters when the projects
are approved by local wetlands boards, the State Marine Resources Commission or
the United States Army Corps of Engineers; or
      (13)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property, and emergency
repairs; however, if the land-disturbing activity would have required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, if the activity were not an
emergency, then the land area disturbed shall be shaped and stabilized in
accordance with the requirements of the plan-approving authority.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, county, city, town or other
political subdivision of the commonwealth, any interstate body or any other
legal entity.
   PLAN APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Council or its designated Administrator.
   STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS. Those standards and specifications as set
forth in part III of the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook which
are hereby adopted by reference and shall guide the Administrator in the
performance of his or her assigned responsibilities.
   TRANSPORTING. Any moving of earth materials from one place to another, other
than a movement incidental to grading, when the movement results in destroying
the vegetative ground cover, either by tracking or the buildup of earth
materials to the extent that erosion and sedimentation will result from the
soil or earth materials over which the transporting occurs.
(1997 Code, § 30-73)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see VA Code, § 10.1-560
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN
§ 151.15 PLAN SUBMISSION.
   Three copies of the erosion and sediment control plan shall be submitted to
the Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 30-77)
§ 151.16 PROCEDURES FOR PLAN SUBMISSION AND REVIEW; INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The plan shall be submitted to the Administrator prior to the
commencement of any land- disturbing activity. The Administrator shall
forthwith undertake a review of the plan which may include: review and
verification of the information contained in the plan, verification of all
proposals contained in the plan, onsite inspection of the proposed activity
area, an onsite inspection of the project during development, and other matters
as the Administrator in his or her discretion deems necessary to ensure
compliance with the purposes of this chapter. The Administrator shall develop
regulations for the enforcement of plan submission and review, which
regulations shall be subject to approval by the Council.
   (B)   The Guidelines for Erosion and Sediment Control Planning, the
Guidelines for Erosion and Sediment Control Plans and the conservation
standards shall be used by the applicant making a submittal under the
provisions of this chapter, in preparing his or her erosion and sediment
control plan. The Administrator, in considering the adequacy of the submitted
plan, shall be guided by the same guidelines and standards.
(1997 Code, § 30-78)
§ 151.17 REGULATED LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment plan approval required.  Except as provided in
divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section, no person shall engage in any land-
disturbing activity after the effective date of the adoption of conservation
standards until he or she has submitted to the Administrator an erosion and
sediment plan for the land-disturbing activity and until that plan has been
reviewed and approved by the Administrator.
   (B)   Private agricultural, horticultural or forest lands. Any person who
owns, occupies or operates private agricultural, horticultural or forest lands
shall not be deemed to be in violation of this chapter for land-disturbing
activities which result from the tilling, planting or harvesting of
agricultural, horticultural or forest crops or products or engineering
operations such as the construction of terraces, terrace outlets, check dams,
desilting basins, floodwater retarding structures, channel improvements,
floodways, dikes, ponds, ditches and the like; the utilization of strip
cropping, lister furrowing, contour cultivating and contour furrowing; land
drainage; land irrigation; seeding and planting of waste, sloping, abandoned or
eroded lands to water-conserving and erosion- preventing plants, trees and
grasses; forestation and reforestation; rotation of crops; soil stabilization
with trees, grasses, legumes and other thick-growing, soil- holding crops;
retardation of runoff by increasing absorption of rainfall; and retirement from
cultivation of steep, highly erosive areas and areas badly gullied or otherwise
eroded. Any person who owns, occupies or operates private agricultural,
horticultural or forest lands shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter wherever that person proposes to conduct grading, excavating or filling
operations.
   (C)   State agency projects. Any state agency that undertakes a project
involving a land-disturbing activity shall not be deemed to be in violation of
this chapter.
   (D)   Lands extending into jurisdiction of another local program.  Any
person whose land-disturbing activities involve lands which extend into the
jurisdiction of another local erosion and sediment control program; provided,
however, that the person has a plan approved by the State Soil and Water
Conservation Board. These persons shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter concerning a performance bond, cash escrow, letter of credit and any
combination of these requirements, or other legal arrangement as is acceptable
to the Administrator.
   (E)   Responsibility for submission and approval of control plan. Whenever a
land-disturbing activity is proposed to be conducted by a contractor performing
construction work pursuant to a construction contract, the preparation,
submission and approval of the required erosion and sediment control plan shall
be the responsibility of the owner of the land.
   (F)   Effect of chapter on land-disturbing activities prior to effective
date of conservation standards. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
affect any land-disturbing activity which is commenced prior to the effective
date of the adoption of conservation standards.
(1997 Code, § 30-79)
§ 151.18 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS OF SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN TECHNIQUES;
FORMAT.
   (A)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan is required under this
chapter. The erosion and sedimentation control plan shall detail those methods
and techniques to be utilized in the control of erosion and sedimentation.
Approved standards and specifications for control techniques to be utilized in
preparing this plan are set forth in part III of the Virginia Erosion and
Sediment Control Handbook, current edition, and as may be amended, from time to
time, which by reference are adopted as a portion of this chapter.
   (B)   As a minimum, the erosion and sedimentation control plan shall follow
the format detailed in the guidelines for sediment control plans in part II of
the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook, current edition, and as may
be amended from time to time, which is adopted as part of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 30-80)
§ 151.19 APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   (A)   Any erosion and sedimentation plan submitted under the provisions of
this chapter will be acted on by the Administrator, in 45 days from its
receipt, by either approving or disapproving the plan in writing and giving
specific reasons for disapproval. If no formal action has been taken by the
plan approving authority in 45 days after the receipt of the plan, the plan
shall be deemed approved. When a plan submitted for approval pursuant to this
chapter is found, upon review by the Administrator, to be inadequate, the
Administrator shall specify such modifications, terms and conditions as will
permit approval of the plan and shall communicate these requirements to the
applicant.
   (B)   An approved plan may be changed by the Administrator who has approved
the plan in the following cases:
      (1)   Where inspection has revealed the inadequacy of the plan to
accomplish the erosion and sediment control objectives of the plan, and
appropriate modifications to correct the deficiencies of the plan are agreed to
by the Administrator and the person responsible for carrying out the plan; or
      (2)   Where the person responsible for carrying out the approved plan
finds that because of changed circumstances or for other reasons the approved
plan cannot be effectively carried out, and proposed amendments to the plan,
consistent with the requirements of this chapter, are agreed to by the
Administrator and the person responsible for carrying out the plan.
(1997 Code, § 30-81)
Statutory reference:
   Submission and approval of control plan, see VA Code, § 10.1-563
§ 151.20 CERTIFICATION; BONDING OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   All control measures required by the provisions of this chapter shall
be undertaken at the expense of the owner or his or her agent; and pending the
actual provision thereof, the owner or his or her agent shall execute and file
with the Administrator, prior to issuance of the land-disturbing permit, an
agreement and bond (or agreements and bonds) in an amount determined by the
Administrator equal to the approximate total cost of providing erosion and
sedimentation control improvements with surety approved by the Erosion and
Sediment Control Officer guaranteeing that the required control measures will
be properly and satisfactorily undertaken.
   (B)   Within 60 days of the achievement of adequate stabilization of the
land-disturbing activity, the bond, cash escrow, letter of credit or other
legal arrangement, or the unexpended or unobligated portion thereof, shall be
refunded to the owner or his or her agent or terminated, as the case may be.
(1997 Code, § 30-82)
Statutory reference:
   Security for performance, see VA Code, § 10.1-565
§ 151.21 ISSUANCE OF LAND-DISTURBING PERMIT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall engage
in any land-disturbing activity within the town until he or she has acquired a
land- disturbing permit.
   (B)   Issuance of a land-disturbing permit is conditioned on an approved
erosion and sediment control plan which, or certification thereof, shall be
presented at the time of application for the permit and, in addition, the
requirements of
§ 151.20 concerning a performance bond, cash escrow, letter of credit, any
combination of these requirements, or such other legal arrangement as is
acceptable under the provisions of
§ 151.20 and to the fees levied in
§ 151.35 for land- disturbing activities.
(1997 Code, § 30-83)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.35 FEES.
   There shall be paid to the Clerk/Treasurer a fee of $25, which fee shall be
paid with each plan or amendment thereto submitted pursuant to this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 30-84)
§ 151.36 MONITORING, REPORTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator shall periodically inspect the land-disturbing
activity to ensure compliance with the approved plan and to determine whether
the measures required in that plan are effective in controlling erosion and
sediment resulting from the land-disturbing activity. The right of entry to
conduct these inspections shall be expressly reserved in the permit. The permit
holder, or his or her duly designated representative, shall be afforded the
opportunity to accompany the inspectors.
   (B)   If the Administrator determines that the permit holder has failed to
comply with the plan, the Administrator shall immediately serve upon the permit
holder a notice to comply by registered or certified mail to the address
specified by the permit holder in his or her permit application or in the plan
certification, or by delivery at the site of the land- disturbing activities to
the agent or employee supervising the activities. A copy of the notice shall
also be sent to the issuer of the permit. This notice shall set forth
specifically the measures needed to come into compliance with the plan and
shall specify the time within which the measures shall be completed. If the
permit holder fails to comply within the time specified, he or she may be
subject to revocation of the permit; furthermore, he or she shall be deemed to
be in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the
penalties provided by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 30-85) Penalty, see
§ 151.99
Statutory reference:
   Monitoring, reports and inspections, see VA Code, §§ 10.1-566 et seq.
§ 151.37 AMENDMENT OF PLAN.
   An approved erosion and sedimentation plan may be amended by the
Administrator if onsite inspection indicates that the approved control measures
are not effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation or because of
changed circumstances the approved plan cannot be carried out, provided these
amendments are agreed to by persons responsible for carrying out the plan.
(1997 Code, § 30-86)
§ 151.38 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Final decisions of the Administrator under this chapter shall be
subject to review by the Council, provided an appeal is filed within 30 days
from the date of any written decision by the Administrator.
   (B)   Final decisions of the Council under this chapter shall be subject to
review by the County Circuit Court, provided an appeal de novo is filed within
30 days from the date of the final written decision.
(1997 Code, § 30-87)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals, see VA Code, § 10.1-568
§ 151.39 LIABILITY; LEGAL ACTION TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be prima facie
evidence in any legal or equitable proceeding for damages caused by erosion,
siltation or sedimentation that all requirements of law have been met and the
complaining party must show negligence in order to recover any damages.
   (B)   Enforcement by legal action shall be in accordance with VA Code, §
10.1-569, as amended.
(1997 Code, § 30-88)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a Class 1 misdemeanor. The
Administrator or the town may apply to the County Circuit Court for injunctive
relief to enjoin a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 30-76)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties, injunctions and the like, see VA Code, § 10.1-569
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose; generally
   
152.002   Long-range planning
   
152.003   Exceptions
   
152.004   Amendments
   
152.005   Effective date
   
152.006   Definitions
Administration
   
152.015   Appointment of Administrator
   
152.016   Administrator’s duties
   
152.017   Consultations
   
152.018   Additional administrative procedures to be adopted
Subdividing Land Generally
   
152.030   Mutual responsibility of subdivider and town
   
152.031   Unsuitable land
   
152.032   Areas subject to flooding
   
152.033   Provision of elevation and flood profiles by subdivider
   
152.034   Required improvements; specifications
   
152.035   Bond
   
152.036   Plans and specifications
   
152.037   Tracts of 1 acre or more
   
152.038   Part of a tract proposed for platting; sketch plan
   
152.039   Reservation of land for public purposes required; regulations
Making and Recording Plats
   
152.050   Required; appeals of disapprovals
   
152.051   Preparation and certification
   
152.052   Owner’s statement; filing and recording
   
152.053   Conformance with chapter required
   
152.054   Private contracts
   
152.055   Necessary changes
   
152.056   Rezoning of platted areas
   
152.057   Fees
Lots
   
152.070   Shapes
   
152.071   Location
   
152.072   Corner lots
   
152.073   Side lines
   
152.074   Remnants
   
152.075   Separate ownership
Blocks
   
152.085   Length
   
152.086   Width
   
152.087   Orientation
   
152.088   Business or industrial use
Streets
   
152.100   Alignment and layout
   
152.101   Service drives
   
152.102   Approach angle
   
152.103   Minimum widths; street grades
   
152.104   Grading and paving widths
   
152.105   Culs-de-sac
   
152.106   Alleys
   
152.107   Private streets
   
152.108   Names
   
152.109   Identification signs
   
152.110   Grades
Monuments
   
152.120   Visible for inspection
   
152.121   Location; materials
Approval of Plats
   
152.135   Required before sale
   
152.136   Preliminary sketch
   
152.137   Preliminary plat; required information
   
152.138   Procedure for preliminary plat approval
   
152.139   Approval of preliminary plat not a guarantee of final plat approval
   
152.140   Time limit placed on approved preliminary plat; extension
   
152.141   Final plat; required information
   
152.142   Conditions for final plat approval
Sale of Plats; Advertising
   
152.155   Enumeration of items to be included
Approval Specifications and Procedures
   
152.165   Standards and specifications
   
152.166   Procedure for plat approval
Appeals
   
152.175   From decisions of agent
   
152.176   From decisions of Council
   
152.177   Variances
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Subdivision plats; approval sequence
   
Appendix B:   Checklist for preliminary plats
   
Appendix C:   Checklist for final plat
Charter reference:
   Subdivisions, see §
20
Statutory reference:
   Land subdivision and development, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2240 et seq.
   Subdivided Land Sales Act of 1978, see VA Code, §§ 55-336 et seq.
   Virginia Public Records Act, see VA Code, §§ 42.1-76 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE; GENERALLY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain subdivision standards
and procedures for the town and of its environs as come under the jurisdiction
of the Council, as provided for by the Code of Virginia, as amended.
(1997 Code, § 58-1) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 1-1)
§ 152.002 LONG-RANGE PLANNING.
   This chapter is a part of a long-range plan to guide and facilitate the
orderly beneficial growth of the community and to promote the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. More
specifically, the purposes of this chapter are to provide a guide for the
changes that occur when land and acreage become urban in character as a result
of development for residential, business or industrial purposes, to provide
assurance that the purchasers of lots are buying a commodity that is suitable
for development and use; and to make possible the provision of public services
in a safe, adequate and efficient manner.
(1997 Code, § 58-2) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 1-1)
§ 152.003 EXCEPTIONS.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, because of topographical
or other conditions peculiar to the site, in the opinion of the agent, a
departure may be made without destroying the intent of this chapter, the agent
may authorize an exception. Any exception thus authorized is to be stated in
writing in the report of the agent with the reasoning on which the departure
was justified set forth. The exceptions authorized by this section specifically
include surface treatment of the streets.
(1997 Code, § 58-4) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 8-1)
§ 152.004 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended in whole or in part by the Council, provided
that any amendment shall either originate with or be submitted to the
Commission for recommendation; and further provided that no such amendment
shall be adopted without a public hearing having been held, in accordance with
the provisions of VA Code, § 15.2- 2204.
(1997 Code, § 58-5) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 8-5)
Statutory reference:
   Amendments, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2252, 15.2-2253
§ 152.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on and after 12:01 a.m. on February 22,
1977.
(1997 Code, § 58-8) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 8-6)
§ 152.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
singular number include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the
natural construction of the word indicates otherwise. Any reference to this
chapter includes all ordinances amending or supplementing this chapter. All
distances and areas refer to measurement in a horizontal plane.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGENT. The representative of the Council who has been appointed to serve
as the AGENT of the Council in the approving of subdivision plats.
      ALLEY.  A permanent service way providing a secondary means of access to
abutting properties.
      APPROVE. Considered to be followed by the words OR DISAPPROVE.
      BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum distance that a building must be set back
from the front line or front boundary line.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the town.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street with only 1 outlet and having an appropriate
turnaround for a safe and convenient reverse traffic movement.
      DEVELOPER. An owner of property being subdivided, whether or not
represented by an agent.
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the town.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose.
      ENGINEER. An engineer licensed by the commonwealth.
      HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The resident engineer employed by the State Department
of Transportation.
      JURISDICTION. The area or territory subject to the legislative control of
the Council.
      LOT. A numbered and recorded portion of a subdivision intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development for a single building and its
accessory building. The word LOT includes the word PARCEL.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon 2 or more streets at their intersection.
The shortest side fronting upon a street shall be considered the front of the
lot, and the longest side fronting upon a street shall be considered the side
of the lot.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  An interior lot having frontage on 2 streets.
      LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which has been recorded in the office of the Clerk
of the Circuit Court.
      LOT, WIDTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
      PLAT.  
         (a)   Means and includes the terms map, plan, plot, replat or replot;
or a map or plan of a tract or parcel of land which is to be or which has been
subdivided.
         (b)   When used as a verb, the term PLAT is synonymous with the term
SUBDIVIDE.
      PROPERTY. Any tract, lot, parcel or several of the same collected
together for the purpose of subdividing.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory and not directory.
      STREET.  The principal means of access to abutting properties.
      STREET, MAJOR. A through street or road that carries a large volume of
through traffic, or anticipated traffic, exceeding 500 vehicles per day.
      STREET OR ALLEY, PUBLIC USE OF. The unrestricted use of a specified area
or right-of- way for ingress and egress to 2 or more abutting properties.
      STREET, OTHER. A street that is used primarily as a means of public
access to the abutting properties with anticipated traffic of less than 500
vehicles per day.
      STREET, SERVICE DRIVE.  A public right-of-way generally parallel and
contiguous to a major highway, primarily designed to promote safety by
eliminating promiscuous ingress and egress to the right-of-way by providing
safe and orderly points of access to the highway.
      STREET, WIDTH. The total width of the strip of land dedicated or reserved
for public travel, including roadways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and planting
strips.
      SUBDIVIDE.  To divide any tract, parcel or lot of land into 2 or more
parts except, however:
         (a)   The term TO SUBDIVIDE shall not include a bona fide division or
partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes or for the building
site for members of the family owning any agricultural lands.
         (b)   The agent may, however, permit the separation of 1 parcel from a
tract of land without complying with all requirements of this chapter if:
            1.   It is not in conflict with the general meaning and purpose of
this chapter;
            2.   No new streets are required to serve the parcel;
            3.   It is at least 20,000 square feet in area; and
            4.   It is not less than a 100-foot frontage.
         (c)   The word SUBDIVIDE and any derivative of the word shall have
reference to the term subdivider as defined in this section.
      SUBDIVIDER. An individual, corporation or registered partnership owning
any tract, lot or parcel of land to be subdivided, or a group of 2 or more
persons owning any tract, lot or parcel of land to be subdivided, who have
given their power of attorney to 1 of their group or to another individual to
act on their behalf in planning, negotiating for, in representing, or executing
the legal requirements of the subdivision.
      SURVEYOR. A certified land surveyor as licensed by the commonwealth.
(1997 Code, § 58-3) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 2)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.015 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The agent appointed by the Council is hereby delegated to administer this
chapter. In so acting, the agent shall be considered the agent of the Council,
and approval or disapproval by the agent shall constitute approval or
disapproval as though it were given by the Council. The agent shall consult
with the Commission on matters contained in this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 58-31) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 3-1)
§ 152.016 ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES.
   The agent shall perform his or her duties as regards subdivisions and
subdividing in accordance with this chapter and the Virginia Land Subdivision
and Development Act (VA Code, §§ 15.2-2240 et seq.).
(1997 Code, § 58-32) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 3-2)
§ 152.017 CONSULTATIONS.
   In the performance of his or her duties, the agent may call for opinions or
decisions, either verbal or written, from other departments in considering
details of any submitted plat. This authority by the agent shall have
particular reference to the resident highway engineer, the Health Officer, the
Superintendent of Public Works, the Zoning Administrator, and the Soil Erosion
and Sediment Control Officer of the town.
(1997 Code, § 58-33) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 3-3)
§ 152.018 ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES TO BE ADOPTED.
   In addition to the regulations contained in this chapter for the platting of
the subdivisions, the agent may, from time to time, establish any reasonable
additional administrative procedures deemed necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 58-34) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 3-4)
SUBDIVIDING LAND GENERALLY
§ 152.030 MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITY OF SUBDIVIDER AND TOWN.
   There is a mutual responsibility between the subdivider and the town to
divide the land so as to improve the general use pattern of the land being
subdivided.
(1997 Code, § 58-86) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-1)
§ 152.031 UNSUITABLE LAND.
   The agent shall not approve the subdivision of land if, from adequate
investigations conducted by all public agencies concerned, it has been
determined that in the best interests of the public the site is not suitable
for platting and development purposes of the kind proposed.
(1997 Code, § 58-87) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-2)
§ 152.032 AREAS SUBJECT TO FLOODING.
   Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically unsuitable
shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for any other uses as may
increase danger of health, life or property, or aggravate erosion or flood
hazard. Such land within the subdivision shall be set aside on the plat for
these uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation, or
shall not produce conditions contrary to public welfare.
(1997 Code, § 58-88) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-3)
§ 152.033 PROVISION OF ELEVATION AND FLOOD PROFILES BY SUBDIVIDER.
   To ensure that residents will have sufficient land upon which to build a
house which is flood-free, the agent may require the subdivider to provide
elevation and flood profiles sufficient to demonstrate the land to be
completely free of the danger of floodwaters.
(1997 Code, § 58-89) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-4)
§ 152.034 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All required improvements shall be installed by the subdivider at his
or her cost. Specifications and requirements set forth in
§§ 152.165,
152.166 and Appendices A, B and C of this chapter shall be followed. The
subdivider’s performance bond shall not be released until construction has been
inspected and approved by the appropriate engineer.
   (B)   All improvements shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Lot size.  Lot size shall be determined by the utilities supplied
as follows:
         (a)   Served by public water and sewer systems. Residential lots
served by both public water and public sewer systems shall be 80 feet or more
in width at the building line and 12,000 square feet or more in area.
Additional improvements required in subdivisions containing lots of this size
are that streets shall be hard-surfaced and treated, and storm drainage systems
and curb and gutter systems may be required when recommended by the highway
engineer.
         (b)   Served by either public water or sewer system. Residential lots
served by only 1 of public water or sewer system shall be 100 feet or more in
width at the building line and 15,000 square feet or more in area. An
additional improvement required in subdivisions containing lots of this size is
that all streets shall be hard-surfaced and treated.
         (c)   Served by neither public sewer nor water system. Residential
lots served by neither public water nor public sewer system shall be 100 feet
or more in width at the building line and 20,000 square feet or more in area.
An additional improvement required in subdivisions containing lots of this size
is that all streets shall be hard-surfaced and treated.
         (d)   Served by septic tanks. The agent shall not approve any
subdivision where sanitary sewers are not provided, unless the agent shall
receive in writing from the Health Officer a statement to the effect that the
area contained in the subdivision is satisfactory for the installation of
septic tanks, and that they will not create hazards to public health.
         (e)   Exceptions. Greater lot areas may be required where individual
septic tanks or individual wells are used, if the Health Officer determines
that there are factors of drainage, soil conditions or other conditions to
cause potential health problems. The agent may require that data from
percolation tests be submitted as a basis for passing upon subdivisions
dependent upon septic tanks as a means of sewage disposal.
      (2)   Flood control and drainage.  The subdivider shall provide all
necessary information needed to determine what improvements are necessary to
properly develop the subject property, including contour intervals, drainage
plans and flood-control devices. The subdivider shall also provide plans for
all these improvements together with a certified engineer’s statement that the
improvements, when properly installed, will be adequate for proper development.
The highway engineer shall then approve or disapprove the plans. The subdivider
shall also provide any other information required by the highway engineer.
      (3)   Easements. The agent may require that easements for drainage
through adjoining property be provided by the subdivider. Easements of not less
than 10 feet in width shall be provided for water, sewer, power lines and other
utilities in the subdivision when required by the agent.
      (4)   Public water. Where public water is available the service shall be
extended to all lots within a subdivision, including fire hydrants, by the
subdivider in accordance with the design standards and specifications for
water, construction and improvements in the town, and meeting the approval of
the agent. Every subdivision containing 25 or more lots to which public water
cannot or will not be provided shall be supplied by the subdivider with a
complete central water supply and distribution system to serve each and every
lot containing less than 20,000 square feet per lot. The central water supply
and distribution system to be installed by the subdivider shall be constructed
in accordance with the designs, standards and specifications for water system
control and improvement in the town and meeting the approval of the agent.
      (5)   Sewage facilities.  Where public sewage facilities are available,
the service shall be extended to all lots within a subdivision and septic tanks
will not be permitted. Every subdivision shall be provided by the subdivider
with a satisfactory and sanitary means of sewage collection and disposal in
accordance with the design standards and specifications for sewage construction
and improvements of the State Health Department specifications and meeting the
approval of the agent, provided the average prevailing lot size is less than
20,000 square feet. In case of a subdivision in which the lots are 20,000
square feet or more in area, an individual sewage disposal system for each lot
may be provided by the subdivider, subject to the approval by the Health
Officer and the agent.
      (6)   Private water and/or sewer. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent
the installation of privately owned water and/or sewage facilities in areas
where public water and/or sewage facilities are not available; provided,
however, that these installations must meet all the requirements of the State
Water Control Board, the State Health Department and any other state or local
regulation having authority over the installation.
      (7)   Fire protection.  The installation of adequate fire hydrants in a
subdivision at locations approved by the agent may be required, provided
necessary public water is available. The agent shall consult with the proper
authority before approving the location.
(1997 Code, § 58-90) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-5)
§ 152.035 BOND.
   Before any subdivision plat will be finally approved by the agent, the
subdivider shall furnish a performance bond in an amount calculated by the
agent to secure the required improvements in a workmanlike manner, and in
accordance with specifications and construction schedules established or
approved by the appropriate engineer, which bond shall be payable to and held
by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 58-91) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-6)
§ 152.036 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Two blue- or black-line prints of the plans and specifications for all
required physical improvements to be installed shall be prepared by a certified
land surveyor and shall be submitted to the agent for approval or disapproval
by the agent within 45 days. If approved, 1 copy bearing certification of this
approval shall be returned to the subdivider. If disapproved, all papers shall
be returned to the subdivider with the reason for disapproval in writing. If no
action is taken in 45 days, the subdivision shall be deemed approved.
(1997 Code, § 58-92) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-7)
§ 152.037 TRACTS OF 1 ACRE OR MORE.
   Land subdivided into tracts of 1 acre or more and intended as semirural
residential garden tracts shall be designed, as far as practicable, to
facilitate the future division of these parcels into smaller building lots with
provision made for a future convenient and economical street system. The terms
“acreage” or “garden subdivisions” shall be so designated on the plat.
(1997 Code, § 58-93) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-8)
§ 152.038 PART OF A TRACT PROPOSED FOR PLATTING; SKETCH PLAN.
   Whenever part of a tract is proposed for platting and it is intended to
subdivide additional parts in the future, a sketch plan for the entire tract
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat.
(1997 Code, § 58-94) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-9)
§ 152.039 RESERVATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES REQUIRED; REGULATIONS.
   The agent may require subdividers of residential subdivisions to set aside
land for parks, playgrounds, schools, libraries, municipal buildings and
similar public and semipublic uses, subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Subdividers shall not be required to dedicate land for parks or
playgrounds exceeding 10% of the area of the subdivision, exclusive of street
and drainage reservations, without reimbursement by the Council. Where land is
required in excess of this amount, the reimbursement by the Council shall be
based on an amount as agreed between the town and the property owner;
   (B)   Subdividers shall not be required to reserve land for public purposes
other than streets, drainage, parks and playgrounds, except on a reimbursement
basis. They shall be reimbursed by the jurisdiction or agency requiring the
land. The town shall be required to obtain an option on the property involved
for a period of 12 months following the recording of the plat for the purchase.
If the land is not purchased within the 12 months it may be sold as lots for
the same purpose for which the subdivision was platted. To facilitate the
possible eventual sale of reserved land as separate lots, the subdivider shall
show on his or her final plat, by dotted lines and dotted numbers, the sizes
and dimensions of lots to be created within the boundaries of any reserved
land, and may sell the lots, after the expiration of the reservation, by lot
number, without filing an amended plat;
   (C)   The agent shall make certain that lands so reserved are divisible in
the same manner as the remainder of the subdivision so that the subdivider will
not be required to reserve an unusable portion of his or her subdivision; and
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that land may be
set aside for commercial purposes in a residential district, without the land
so required for commercial use being zoned appropriately in accordance with
Chapter 153.
(1997 Code, § 58-216) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-34)
MAKING AND RECORDING PLATS
§ 152.050 REQUIRED; APPEALS OF DISAPPROVALS.
   (A)   Any owner or developer of any tract of land situated within the town
who subdivides the land shall cause a plat of the subdivision, with reference
to known or permanent monuments, to be made and recorded in the office of the
Clerk of the County Circuit Court. No plat of subdivision shall be recorded
unless and until it shall have been submitted, approved and certified by the
agent in accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter. No lot
shall be sold in any subdivision before the plat shall have been recorded.
   (B)   If a plan for subdivision is disapproved by the agent, the subdivider
may appeal to the Council which may then override the recommendation of the
agent and approve the plat.
(1997 Code, § 58-56) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Plats, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2241 - 15.2-2246, 15.2-2258 et seq.
§ 152.051 PREPARATION AND CERTIFICATION.
   Every plat shall be prepared by a surveyor or civil engineer duly licensed
by the state, who shall endorse upon each plat a certificate signed by him or
her setting forth the source of the title of the land subdivided, and the place
of record of the last instrument in the chain of title. When the plat is of
land acquired from more than 1 source of title, the outlines of the several
tracts shall be indicated upon the plat, within an insert block or by means of
a dotted boundary line upon the plat.
(1997 Code, § 58-57) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-2)
§ 152.052 OWNER’S STATEMENT; FILING AND RECORDING.
   Every plat, or the deed of dedication to which the plat is attached, shall
contain in addition to the surveyor’s or civil engineer’s certificate a
statement to the effect that “the above and foregoing subdivision of [here
insert correct description of the land subdivided] as appears in this plat is
with the free consent and in accordance with the desire of the undersigned
owners, proprietors and trustees, if any,” which shall be signed by the owners,
proprietors and trustees, if any, and shall be duly acknowledged before some
officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds. When thus executed and
approved as specified in this section shall be filed and recorded in the office
of the Clerk of the County Circuit Court, and included under the names of the
landowners signing the statement and under the name of the subdivision.
(1997 Code, § 58-58) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-3)
§ 152.053 CONFORMANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   No person shall subdivide any tract of land that is located within the town
as defined in the Virginia Land Subdivision and Development Act (VA Code, §§
15.2-2240 et seq.), except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 58-59) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-4) Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.054 PRIVATE CONTRACTS.
   This chapter bears no relation to any private easement, covenant, agreement
or restriction, nor is the responsibility of enforcing the private easement,
covenant, agreement or restriction implied in this section to any public
official. When this chapter calls for more restrictive standards that are
required by private contract, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(1997 Code, § 58-60) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-5)
§ 152.055 NECESSARY CHANGES.
   No change, erasure or revision shall be made on any preliminary or final
plat, nor on any accompanying data sheets after approval of the agent has been
endorsed in writing on the plat or sheets, unless authorization for these
changes has been granted in writing by the agent.
(1997 Code, § 58-61) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-6)
§ 152.056 REZONING OF PLATTED AREAS.
   When the intended use of all or part of the platted area, as indicated by
the preliminary plat and as shown on that plat, would put the land in a more
restrictive category than that which now exists, the plat shall be considered a
petition for the rezoning of the platted area to the higher classification.
(1997 Code, § 58-62) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-7)
§ 152.057 FEES.
   There shall be a charge for the examination and approval or disapproval of
every plat reviewed by the agent. At the time of filing the final plat, the
subdivider shall deposit with the agent checks payable to the Clerk/Treasurer
in the amount of $25 per plat and $1 for each lot, if the subdivision contains
5 lots or more. If the subdivision contains less than 5 lots, the charge shall
be $10 per plat and $1 for each lot.
(1997 Code, § 58-63) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 4-8)
LOTS
§ 152.070 SHAPES.
   The lot arrangement, design and shape shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, be properly related to
topography and conform to requirements of this chapter. Lots shall not contain
peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide necessary square footage of
area which would be unusable for normal purposes.
(1997 Code, § 58-111) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-10)
§ 152.071 LOCATION.
   Each lot shall abut on a street dedicated by the subdivision plat, on an
existing publicly dedicated street, or on a street which has become public by
right of use. If the existing streets are not 50 feet in width, the subdivider
shall make provisions in the deeds to the lots for all buildings to be so
constructed as to permit the widening by dedication of the roads or streets to
a width of 50 feet.
(1997 Code, § 58-112) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-11)
§ 152.072 CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for maintenance of required
building lines on both streets as required by the agent.
(1997 Code, § 58-113) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-12)
§ 152.073 SIDE LINES.
   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the
street line.
(1997 Code, § 58-114) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-13)
§ 152.074 REMNANTS.
   All remnants of lots below the minimum size, left over after subdividing of
a tract, must be added to adjacent lots, or otherwise disposed of, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
(1997 Code, § 58-115) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-14)
§ 152.075 SEPARATE OWNERSHIP.
   Where the land covered by a subdivision includes 2 or more parcels in a
separate ownership, and lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line
divides 1 or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall be transferred by
deed to a single ownership, simultaneous with the recording of the final plat.
The deed is to be deposited with the agent and held with the final plat until
the subdivider is ready to record the same, and they both shall then be
recorded together.
(1997 Code, § 58-116) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-15)
BLOCKS
§ 152.085 LENGTH.
   The maximum length of blocks generally shall be 1,200 feet, and the minimum
length of blocks upon which lots have frontage shall be 500 feet.
(1997 Code, § 58-136) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-16)
§ 152.086 WIDTH.
   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow 2 tiers of lots of minimum depth,
except where fronting on major streets, unless prevented by topographical
conditions or size of the property, in which case the agent may approve a
single tier or lots of minimum depth.
(1997 Code, § 58-137) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-17)
§ 152.087 ORIENTATION.
   Where a subdivision adjoins a major road, the Commission may require that
the greater dimension of the block shall front or back upon the major
thoroughfare to avoid unnecessary ingress or egress.
(1997 Code, § 58-138) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-18)
§ 152.088 BUSINESS OR INDUSTRIAL USE.
   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
specifically for those purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street
parking and delivery facilities.
(1997 Code, § 58-139) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-19)
STREETS
§ 152.100 ALIGNMENT AND LAYOUT.
   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the
continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas. The street arrangement
must be such as to cause no unnecessary hardship to owners of adjoining
property when they plat their own land and seek to provide for convenient
access to it. Where, in the opinion of the agent, it is desirable to provide
for street access to adjoining property, proposed streets shall be extended and
developed to the boundary line of the property. Half-streets along the boundary
of land proposed for subdivision may not be permitted. Whenever possible,
streets should intersect at right angles. In all hillside areas streets running
with contours shall be required to intersect at angles of not less than 60
degrees, unless approved by the highway engineer.
(1997 Code, § 58-161) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-20)
§ 152.101 SERVICE DRIVES.
   Whenever a proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a limited access
highway or expressway, provision shall be made for a service drive or marginal
street approximately parallel to the right-of- way at a distance suitable for
an appropriate use of the land between the highway and the proposed
subdivision. These distances shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for ingress and egress to the main thoroughfare. The
right-of-way of any major highway or street projected across any railroad,
limited access highway or expressway shall be of adequate width to provide for
the cuts or fills required for any further separation of grades.
(1997 Code, § 58-162) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-21)
§ 152.102 APPROACH ANGLE.
   Major streets shall approach the major or collector streets at an angle of
not less than 80 degrees, unless the agent, upon recommendation of the highway
engineer, shall approve a lesser angle of approach for reasons of contour,
terrain or matching of existing patterns.
(1997 Code, § 58-163) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-22)
§ 152.103 MINIMUM WIDTHS; STREET GRADES.
   In cases where the State Department of Transportation specifications are
lacking or less restrictive than the requirements of this chapter, this chapter
shall prevail. The grades of streets submitted on subdivision plats shall be
approved by the agent upon recommendation of the highway engineer prior to
final action by the agent. Wherever feasible, street grades shall not exceed
10%.
(1997 Code, § 58-164) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-23)
§ 152.104 GRADING AND PAVING WIDTHS.
   Grading and paving shall be in accordance with the regulations established
by
§§ 152.165,
152.166 and
Appendices A,
B and
C of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 58-165) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-24)
§ 152.105 CULS-DE-SAC.
   Minor terminal streets (culs-de-sac), designed to have 1 end permanently
closed, shall be not longer than 400 feet to the beginning of the turnaround.
Each cul-de-sac must be terminated by a turnaround of not less than 100 feet in
diameter.
(1997 Code, § 58-166) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-25)
§ 152.106 ALLEYS.
   Alleys should be avoided wherever possible. Dead-end alleys, if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities as determined by the
agent.
(1997 Code, § 58-167) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-26)
§ 152.107 PRIVATE STREETS.
   There shall be no private streets platted in any subdivision. Every
subdivided property shall be served from a publicly dedicated street. There
shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets, except where the
control of the strips is definitely placed with the community under conditions
approved by the agent.
(1997 Code, § 58-168) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-27)
§ 152.108 NAMES.
   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with other already
existing and named streets shall bear the names of the existing street. Failing
to meet these stipulations, in no case shall the name of the proposed streets
duplicate existing street names in the town and adjoining jurisdictions,
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, way,
place, lane or court. Street names shall be indicated on the preliminary and
final plats, and shall be approved by the agent. Names of existing streets
shall not be changed except by approval of the Council.
(1997 Code, § 58-169) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-28)
§ 152.109 IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   Street identification signs of an approved design shall be installed at all
intersections.
(1997 Code, § 58-170) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-29)
§ 152.110 GRADES.
   The grades of streets shall be in accordance with specifications established
by the highway engineer, and the grades as submitted on subdivision plats shall
be approved by the engineer prior to final action by the agent. Wherever
feasible, street grades shall not exceed 10%.
(1997 Code, § 58-171) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-30)
MONUMENTS
§ 152.120 VISIBLE FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of subdivision streets, sewers and other improvements, the
subdivider shall make certain that all monuments required by the highway
engineer are clearly visible for inspection and use. These monuments shall be
inspected and approved by the engineer before any improvements are accepted by
the Council.
(1997 Code, § 58-191) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 5-31)
§ 152.121 LOCATION; MATERIALS.
   (A)   Two permanent reinforced monuments, as prescribed by the agent, shall
be placed on the longest street tangent. These permanent monuments shall be
stone or reinforced concrete at least 24 inches long, 6 inches square, with a
cast iron corner and shall be set as close to approved finished grades as
practicable.
   (B)   All other lot corners shall be marked with solid iron not less than 5/
8 inch in diameter, 24 inches long and driven so far as to be flush with the
finished grade. When rock is encountered, a hole shall be drilled 4 inches deep
in the rock and a steel rod shall be cemented ½ inch in diameter, whose top
shall be flush with the finished grade line.
(1997 Code, § 58-192) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, §§ 5-32, 5-33)
APPROVAL OF PLATS
§ 152.135 REQUIRED BEFORE SALE.
   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, the subdivider or his or her
agent shall apply in writing to the agent for the approval of the subdivision
plat and submit 3 copies of the preliminary plat including the lot, street and
utilities layout. No lot shall be sold nor, in the case of a new subdivision,
shall any permit for the erection of a structure be granted, until a final plat
for the subdivision shall have been approved and recorded.
(1997 Code, § 58-236) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Approval of plats, VA Code, § 15.2-2258 et seq.
§ 152.136 PRELIMINARY SKETCH.
   (A)   The subdivider may, if he or she so chooses, submit to the agent a
preliminary sketch of the proposed subdivision prior to his or her preparing an
engineered preliminary plat and a final plat. The purpose of the preliminary
sketch is to permit the agent to advise the subdivider whether his or her
plans, in general, are in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The
agent, upon submission of any preliminary sketch, shall study it and advise the
subdivider wherein it appears that changes would be necessary. The agent may
mark the preliminary sketch indicating necessary changes, and any marked sketch
shall be returned to the subdivider with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The preliminary sketch shall be as follows:
      (1)   It may be drawn on white paper, or on a print of a topographic map
of the property;
      (2)   It may be drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch;
      (3)   It may show the name, location and dimensions of all streets
entering the property, adjacent to the property, or terminating at the boundary
of the property to be subdivided; and
      (4)   It shall show the location of all proposed streets, lots, parks,
playgrounds and other proposed uses of the land to be subdivided and shall
include the approximate dimensions.
(1997 Code, § 58-237) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-2)
§ 152.137 PRELIMINARY PLAT; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall present to the agent 3 copies of a preliminary
layout at a scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch as a preliminary plat.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision, owner, subdivider, surveyor or engineer,
date of drawing, number of sheets, true north point and scale;
      (2)   The location of the proposed subdivision by an insert map at a
scale of not less than 2 inches equals 1 mile showing adjoining roads, their
name and number, towns, subdivisions and other landmarks;
      (3)   The boundary survey or existing survey of records, provided the
survey shows a closure with an accuracy of not less than 1 in 2,500; total
acreage, acreage of the subdivided area, number and approximate area and
frontage of all building sites, existing buildings within the boundaries of the
tract, names of owners and their property lines within the boundaries of the
tract and adjoining these boundaries;
      (4)   All existing platted and proposed streets, their names, number and
width; existing utility or other easements, public areas and parking spaces;
culverts, drains and watercourses, their names and other pertinent data;
      (5)   All parcels of land to be dedicated for public use and the
conditions of the dedication;
      (6)   Topography at intervals satisfactory to the highway engineer, if
required;
      (7)   Elevations of existing and proposed ground surface at all street
intersections and at the points of major grade change along the centerline of
streets, together with the proposed grade lines connecting therewith;
      (8)   Proposed connections with existing sanitary sewers and existing
water supply or alternate means of sewage disposal and water supply; and
      (9)   Provisions for collecting and discharging surface drainage and
preliminary designs of any structures that may be required.
(1997 Code, § 58-238) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-3)
§ 152.138 PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   The agent or his or her appointed representative shall discuss the
preliminary plat with the subdivider in order to determine whether or not his
or her preliminary plat generally conforms to the requirements of this chapter
and of the zoning ordinance. The subdivider shall then be advised in writing
within 45 days, which may be by formal letter or by legible markings on his or
her copy of the preliminary plat, concerning any additional data that may be
required, the character and extent of public improvements that will have to be
made, and an estimate of the cost of required improvements and the amount of
the performance bond. The agent may consult with a duly licensed engineer who
shall prepare this data for the agent, or preferably may require a bona fide
estimate of the cost of improvements to be furnished him or her by the
subdivider.
(1997 Code, § 58-239) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-4)
§ 152.139 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT NOT A GUARANTEE OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Approval by the agent of the preliminary plat does not constitute a
guarantee of approval of the final plat.
(1997 Code, § 58-240) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-5)
§ 152.140 TIME LIMIT PLACED ON APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLAT; EXTENSION.
   The subdivider shall have not more than 6 months after receiving official
notification concerning the preliminary plat to file with the agent a final
subdivision plat in accordance with this chapter. Failure to do so shall make
preliminary approval null and void. The agent may, on written request by the
subdivider, grant an extension of this time limit.
(1997 Code, § 58-241) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-6)
§ 152.141 FINAL PLAT; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   The subdivision plats submitted for final approval and subsequent
recording shall be clearly and legibly drawn in ink upon tracing cloth at a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch on sheets having a maximum size of
17 inches by 23 inches.
   (B)   It should show the following information:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, magisterial district, county, state, owner,
true north point, scale of drawing and number of sheets. If shown on more than
1 sheet, matched lines shall clearly indicate where the several sheets join. A
blank oblong space 3 inches by 5 inches shall be reserved for the use of the
approving authority;
      (2)   Location of the proposed subdivision by an insert map at a scale of
not less than 2 inches equals 1 mile indicating adjoining roads, their names
and numbers, towns, subdivisions and other landmarks;
      (3)   A boundary survey with an error of closure within the limits of 1
in 10,000 related to the magnetic meridian and showing the location of all
monuments and their type of material. The survey may be related to the
U.S.C.G.S. state grid north if the coordinates of 2 adjacent corners of the
subdivision are shown;
      (4)   Certificates signed by the surveyor or engineer setting forth the
source of the title of the owners of the land subdivided and the place of
record of the last instrument in the chain of title;
      (5)   A statement to the effect that the subdivision as it appears on
this plat is with the free consent and in accordance with the desires of the
owners, proprietors and trustees, if any, and shall be duly acknowledged before
some officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds;
      (6)   When the subdivision consists of land acquired from more than 1
source of title, the outlines of the various tracts shall be indicated by dash-
lines, and identification of the respective tracts shall be placed on the plat;
      (7)   The accurate location and dimensions by bearings and distances with
all curve data on all lots and street lines and centerlines of streets;
boundaries of all proposed or existing easements; parks, school sites or other
public areas; the number and area of all building sites, all existing public
and private streets, their names, numbers and widths; existing utilities and
those to be provided, such as sanitary sewers, storm drains, water mains,
manholes and underground conduits, including their size and type; watercourses
and their names; and names of owners and their property lines, both within the
boundary of the subdivision and adjoining the boundaries;
      (8)   All dimensions shown in feet and decimals of a foot to the closest
5 figures, and all bearings in degrees and minutes to the nearest minute; and
      (9)   The data of all curves along the street frontages shall be shown in
detail at the curve or in a curve data table containing the following: delta,
radius, arc, tangent, chord and chord bearings.
(1997 Code, § 58-242) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-7)
§ 152.142 CONDITIONS FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The final plat shall not be approved until the subdivider has complied with
the general requirements and minimum standards of design in accordance with
this chapter, and has made satisfactory arrangements for a performance bond,
cash or cash bond to cover the cost of necessary improvements to the
satisfaction of the agent. Approval of the final plat shall be written on the
face of the final plat by the agent.
(1997 Code, § 58-243) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 6-8)
SALE OF PLATS; ADVERTISING
§ 152.155 ENUMERATION OF ITEMS TO BE INCLUDED.
   A subdivider, when advertising a subdivided tract of land for sale, shall be
specific as to the following:
   (A)   Facilities for water and sewage. Whether officially approved water and
sewage facilities are available or not;
   (B)   Water availability. The amount of officially approved water available
to each lot purchaser in terms of gallons per day;
   (C)   Provisions for fire hydrants. Whether the subdivision is provided with
a water system which has provided for the installation of fire hydrants at
recommended intervals;
   (D)   Tract eligibility for flood insurance. Whether the tract of land is
eligible for flood insurance in accordance with FIA standards, if applicable;
and
   (E)   Eligibility of access roads. Whether access roads are eligible for
acceptance in the state secondary system of highways.
(1997 Code, § 58-266) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 7-1)
APPROVAL SPECIFICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
§ 152.165 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   After February 22, 1977, all subdivisions shall incorporate the following
standards and specifications:
   (A)   The right-of-way width shall not be less than 50 feet;
   (B)   Roadways shall be graded to 30 feet, exclusive of side ditches;
   (C)   Drainage structures, including culverts approved by the State
Department of Highways, shall be provided. Drainage easements within
subdivisions and easements for drainage outlets leaving subdivisions shall be
shown on the recorded plat of subdivision;
   (D)   The base for pavement shall be at least 20 feet in width and 5 inches
in depth and shall be of stone, gravel or other satisfactory stabilizing
material approved by the State Department of Highways;
   (E)   Pavement width shall be a minimum width of 20 feet, constructed of
material passing State Department of Highways’ specifications. The pavement
will consist of a final sealed treatment of asphalt and aggregate, and the
rates of application to be in accordance with State Department of Highways’
specifications;
   (F)   Side ditches and outlet ditches shall be paved in accordance with the
State Department of Highways’ current specifications, if deemed necessary by
the resident highway engineer for the county;
   (G)   All drainage structures under driveways shall be a minimum of 12
inches in diameter;
   (H)   The inclusion of new subdivision roads into the secondary road system
of the State Department of Highways at any time other than July 1 will require
the developer to pay a maintenance fee based on the rates established by the
Council from time to time; and
   (I)   The developer shall contact the resident highway engineer for the
county to determine the requirements necessary to be met to comply with the
State Department of Highways’ design standards and specifications.
(1997 Code, § 58-301) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, Appx. A)
§ 152.166 PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Preapplication. Preapplication procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Subdivider.  The subdivider gathers data on existing conditions;
studies the site suitability and development opportunities; discusses
financing, planning and marketing with those interested; and develops a
preliminary sketch form which is submitted to the agent for advice and
assistance.
      (2)   Preliminary sketch. This first submission may be a freehand sketch
in pencil made directly on a print of a topographic survey. The sketch should
show the following:
         (a)   Layout of streets;
         (b)   Lots and other features in relation to site conditions;
         (c)   Sites of proposed schools, churches, parks, playgrounds and
shopping and neighborhood facilities; and
         (d)   Utilities.
      (3)   Agent. The agent reviews the sketch and programs as they relate to
the officially adopted community master plan for development, design standards,
improvement requirements and discusses the review with the developer.
   (B)   Preliminary plat. Preliminary plat procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Subdivider. The subdivider determines the feasibility of continued
development based on discussions with the agent, lending institutions and other
affected agencies. At this time a preliminary plat is prepared for submission
to the agent for conditional preliminary approval.
      (2)   Preliminary subdivision plan. When the sketch is satisfactory to
all concerned, preparation of a more accurate preliminary subdivision plan is
developed. This plan should provide the following data:
         (a)   Streets, rights-of-way and roadway widths and approximate grades
and gradients;
         (b)   Other rights-of-way or easements;
          (c)   Storm drainage system;
         (d)   Spot elevations and slope ratios for any heavy grading;
         (e)   Lot lines and numbers;
         (f)   Sites, if any, for parks, churches and the like;
         (g)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (h)   Key plan, legend and notes;
         (i)   Site data, including acres in parks and the like; and
         (j)   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
      (3)   Agent. The agent reviews the application and preliminary plat for
conditional approval and determines conformity to subdivision standards. The
agent shall grant conditional approval, subject to the conditions agreed upon,
or disapproval.
   (C)   Final plat. Final plat procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Subdivider.  The subdivider stakes out the tract, or that portion
to be first subdivided, in accordance with the preliminary plat as
conditionally approved; installs the improvements, or posts a bond to guarantee
completion of the improvements stipulated; prepares the final plat in
accordance with this chapter and submits it to the agent with other required
material and documents.
      (2)   Agent. The agent reviews the final plat, recommends approval or
disapproval, or informs the subdivider as to what is lacking to obtain approval
for recording.
   (D)   Recording of final plat. The subdivider shall record the approved
final plat and other documents, proceed with his or her development plans and
programs, and thereafter begin the sale of lots and houses.
(1997 Code, § 58-302) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, Appx. A)
APPEALS
§ 152.175 FROM DECISIONS OF AGENT.
   Appeals from decisions of the agent shall be to the Council within 30 days
from the date of decision.
(1997 Code, § 58-281) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 7A-1)
§ 152.176 FROM DECISIONS OF COUNCIL.
   Appeals from decisions of the Council shall be to the County Circuit Court
within 30 days from the date of the decision.
(1997 Code, § 58-282) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 7A-3)
§ 152.177 VARIANCES.
   The Council may authorize upon appeal in specific cases those variances from
the strict application of the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to
the public interest when, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
will result in unnecessary hardships, provided that the spirit of this chapter
shall be observed and substantial justice done. Where a variance is granted,
the Council may attach any conditions and safeguards as are deemed necessary to
protect the general public interest or the character of the neighborhood, and
may require a guarantee or bond to ensure compliance.
(1997 Code, § 58-283) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 7A-2)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, see
§ 152.003
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any owner or proprietor of any tract of land who subdivides that tract of
land and who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a Class 4 misdemeanor. Each day after the first during which the violation
shall continue shall constitute a separate violation.
(1997 Code, § 58-7) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, § 8-2)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION PLATS; APPROVAL SEQUENCE
   Name of subdivision
   (A)   Preapplication (preliminary sketch).
      (1)   Date                        
      (2)   Developer    
         Address   
         Phone   
      (3)   Engineer   
      (4)   Surveyor   
      (5)   Number of sections              Number of blocks             
Number of lots                
      (6)   Recommendations:    
      (7)   Water supply, public              Private              Well
            
      (8)   Sewer, public              Private              
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Date                       
      (2)   Developer   
      (3)   Engineer   
      (4)   Surveyor of record    
      (5)   Owner of record   
      (6)   Sections                      
         Blocks                      
         Lots                      
      (7)   Plat fee $                   
      (8)   Data shown on plat reviewed for conformity to subdivision approved
         disapproved         
      (9)   Conditional approval subject to the following conditions:
      (10)   Reason for disapproval:
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Date                    
      (2)   Review of final plat to determine conformity to subdivision
ordinance   Yes           No           
      (3)   Review of plat for conformity to conditions agreed upon for
conditional approval.
         Conditions corrected                                 Yes           No
          
      (4)   Approval                
         Disapproval                
      (5)   Reason for recommending disapproval:
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   Date             
      (2)   Decision of Town Council:
         Approve                   
         Disapprove                
(1997 Code, § 58-303) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, Appx. A)   
APPENDIX B: CHECKLIST FOR PRELIMINARY PLATS
   The following is information to be shown on a subdivision plat:
   (A)   (1)   Right-of-way lines of streets;
      (2)   Right-of-way lines of easements;
      (3)   Property lines of residential lots;
      (4)   Property lines of other sides;
      (5)   Accurate dimensions (no plus or minus); and
      (6)   Bearings and curve data.
   (B)   (1)   Name and right-of-way width of all streets;
      (2)   Name and width of other rights-of-way; and
      (3)   Location, dimension and purpose of any easement.
   (C)   (1)   Number to identify each lot; and
      (2)   Number to identify each site.
   (D)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or
reserved.
   (E)   Minimum setback lines on all lots and other sites.
   (F)   Location and description of all monuments.
   (G)   (1)   Names of owners of record of adjoining unplatted land; and
      (2)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by record name, date and number.
   (H)   (1)   Certification by surveyor or engineer;
      (2)   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and sites for
public uses;
      (3)   Owners’ statement;
      (4)   Seal of circuit court; and
      (5)   Agent’s approval.
   (I)   (1)   Title;
      (2)   Scale;
      (3)   North arrow; and
      (4)   Date.
(1997 Code, § 58-304) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, Appx. A)
APPENDIX C: CHECKLIST FOR FINAL PLAT
   I.   Subdivision name   
   II.   Subdivider name   
         Address      
         Phone: Business                                        Home
   III.   Plat fee, as established by the Council from time to time. $
            
   IV.   Drawing checklist:
      (A)   General data:
         (1)   Size:   11 inches by 14 inches                 11 inches by 28
inches             
                  14 inches by 22 inches                 22 inches by 28 inches
            
         (2)   Date of plat                            , 20               
         (3)   Graphic scale                 inch =              feet      
            (Not less than 1 inch = 100 feet)
         (4)   Number of sheets              match lines            Yes
               No                
         (5)   Identification numbers:
            (a)   Section numbers                        Yes                No
               
            (b)   Block numbers                        Yes                No
               
            (c)   Lot numbers                           Yes                No
               
         (6)   Location map                              Yes                No
               
      (B)   Dimensions:
         (1)   Linear and angular measurements for locating boundaries of:
            (a)   Subdivision (closed traverse)               Yes
               No                
            (b)   Lots (exact lengths, no plus or minus)         Yes
               No                
            (c)   Streets and alleys (exact widths)            Yes
               No                
            (d)   Curve data (roads and streets)               Yes
               No                
            (e)   Public and private easements               Yes               
No                
            (f)   Land reserved for public use               Yes               
No                
            (g)   Sidewalks (width and length)               Yes               
No                
            (h)   Setbacks (dotted line)                  Yes                No
               
            (i)   Monuments (location and description)         Yes
               No                
      (C)   Plan and profile sheets:
         (1)   New streets                        Yes                No
               
         (2)   Underground utilities                     Yes                No
               
            (a)   Sewer                        Yes                No
               
            (b)   Water                        Yes                No
               
            (c)   Electric power                     Yes                No
               
            (d)   Telephone                     Yes                No
               
            (e)   Natural gas                     Yes                No
               
      (D)   Street identification:
         (1)   Street numbers (each lot)                  Yes                No
               
         (2)   Street names (list for coordination)               Yes
               No                
      (E)   Adjoining property:
         (1)   Angles of departure adjoining property            Yes
               No                
         (2)   Adjoining street and alley lines               Yes
               No                
         (3)   Names of abutting subdivisions               Yes               
No                
         (4)   Names of abutting unsubdivided acreage or parcels         Yes
               No                
         (5)   Widths and names of adjoining roads, streets or alleys      Yes
               No                
      (F)   Blocks:
         (1)   Lengths:      
            (a)   Not over 1,200 feet                  Yes                No
               
            (b)   Not less than 500 feet                  Yes                No
               
            (c)   Two tiers of lots                  Yes                No
               
         (2)   Compliance with adopted zoning requirements         Yes
               No                
         (3)   Limitations of topography                  Yes                No
               
         (4)   Business or industrial blocks:
            (a)   Off-street parking                  Yes                No
               
            (b)   Provisions for delivery service            Yes               
No                
      (G)   Lots:
         (1)   Setbacks                        Yes                No
               
         (2)   Served by public water and sewer 75 feet wide at
            building line, 7,500 square feet in area            Yes
               No                
         (3)   No public water nor sewer 100 feet wide at building line,
            20,000 square feet in area                  Yes                No
               
         (4)   Served by only 1 of public water or public sewer
            system; 100 feet wide at building line, 15,000 square feet
            in area                           Yes                No
               
         (5)   Septic tanks, approval by Health Officer, 100 feet at
            building line, 20,000 square feet in area            Yes
               No                
         (6)   Corner lots, 10 feet wider than minimum requirement
            for interior lots, except no increase for lots 110 feet or
            more                           Yes                No
               
         (7)   Access to public street                  Yes                No
               
         (8)   Double fronting lots                     Yes                No
               
         (9)   Lot lines perpendicular                  Yes                No
               
         (10)   Remnants                        Yes                No
               
      (H)   Endorsements:
         (1)   (a)   Owner’s statement                  Yes                No
               
            (b)   Signatures                     Yes                No
               
         (2)   (a)   Notary                        Yes                No
               
            (b)   Seal                        Yes                No
               
(1997 Code, § 58-305) (Ord. passed 2-21-1977, Appx. A)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority and purpose
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Conflict with other regulations
   
153.004   Effective date
   
153.005   Definitions
Establishment of Districts
   
153.015   Use districts
   
153.016   District boundaries and map
   
153.017   Rules and interpretation of district boundaries
General Regulations
   
153.030   Application of regulations
   
153.031   Nonconforming use
   
153.032   Off-street automobile parking and storage
   
153.033   Off-street loading and unloading space
Use, Area, Yard and Height Requirements by District
   
153.050   Residential District – Single-Family (R-1)
   
153.051   General Residential District – Multi- Family (R-2)
   
153.052   Residential District – Mobile Homes (R-MHP)
   
153.053   Central Business District (B-1)
   
153.054   General Business District (B-2)
   
153.055   Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1)
   
153.056   Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-2)
   
153.057   Floodplain District (FP)
Exceptions and Modifications
   
153.070   Lot of record
   
153.071   Front yard setbacks for dwellings
   
153.072   Height limitations
   
153.073   Visibility at intersections
   
153.074   Corner lots
   
153.075   Trailer storage
   
153.076   Group projects
   
153.077   Uses not provided for
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.090   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
153.091   Zoning permit required
   
153.092   Application for zoning permit
   
153.093   Certificate of occupancy required
   
153.094   Remedies
   
153.095   Amendments
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.110   Establishment of Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.111   Powers of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.112   Rules and regulations
   
153.113   Filing and notice for an appeal
   
153.114   Fees; certification of payment of real estate taxes
   
153.115   Appeals from Board of Zoning Appeals
Conditional Zoning
   
153.130   Declaration of policy and findings; purpose
   
153.131   Conditions as part of rezoning or amendment to zoning map
   
153.132   Enforcement and guarantees
   
153.133   Records
   
153.134   Amendments and variations of conditions
Special Use Permit
   
153.150   Intent of special use permit provision
   
153.151   Uses subject to special use permit
   
153.152   Standards for special use permit application review
   
153.153   Conditions
   
153.154   Additional requirements for certain uses
   
153.155   Application requirements for special use permit
   
153.156   Action on applications
   
153.157   Modifications or amendments to approved special use permits
   
153.158   Expiration or discontinuance of approved special use permits
   
153.159   Reconsideration
   
153.160   Fees; certification of payment of real estate taxes
   
153.161   Enforcement
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Conflict with statutes, local ordinances or regulations, see VA Code, §
15.2-2315
   Notice of planning or zoning matters, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2205, 15.2-2206
   Planning, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2210 et seq.
   Regulations to be uniform, see VA Code, § 15.2-2282
   Zoning, see VA Code, §§ 15.2-2200 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was adopted by an ordinance on August 13, 1968 and amended by
an ordinance on August 9, 1983.  The chapter was adopted by reference in the
prior code as § 78-1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Whereas, by act of the General Assembly of Virginia as provided in VA
Code, Title 15.2, §§ 15.2-2280 - 15.2-2316, as amended, the governing body of
any county or municipality may, by ordinance, divide the territory under its
jurisdiction into districts of a number, shape and area as it may deem best
suited to carry out the purposes of this chapter, and in each district it may
regulate, restrict, permit, prohibit and determine the following:
      (1)   The use of land, buildings, structures and other premises for
agricultural, business, industrial, residential, floodplain and other specific
uses;
      (2)   The size, height, area, bulk, location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alternation, repair, maintenance, razing or removal of
structures;
      (3)   The areas and dimensions of land, water and air space to be
occupied by buildings, structures and uses, and of courts, yards and other open
spaces to be left unoccupied by uses and structures, including variations in
the sizes of lots based on whether a public or community water supply or sewer
system is available and uses; and
      (4)   The excavation or mining of soil or other natural resources.
   (B)   Therefore, be it ordained by the Town Council of Brookneal, Virginia,
for the general purpose of promoting the health, safety or general welfare of
the public and of further accomplishing the objectives of VA Code, §§ 15.2-2280
– 15.2-2316, as amended, that the following be adopted as the zoning ordinance
of Brookneal, Virginia, together with the accompanying zoning map adopted
herewith as an integral part of this chapter and to be known as the zoning map
of the town.
(1997 Code, § S9-1-1) (Am. Ord. passed - - )  
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the zoning ordinance of
Brookneal, Virginia or this chapter.
(1997 Code, § S9-1-2)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )  
§ 153.003 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or size of
yards, courts or other open space, or require a lower height of buildings or
lesser number of stories or require a greater percentage of lot to be left
unoccupied, or impose other, more restrictive standards than are required in or
under any other statutes, the regulations and requirements of this chapter
shall govern.
(1997 Code, § S9-12-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )  
§ 153.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This zoning chapter shall be effective at and after 12:01 a.m., August 13,
1968, with amendments effective August 9, 1983. Amendments for special use
permit effective November 13, 2012.
(1997 Code, § S9-12-3) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. For the purpose of interpreting this chapter, certain
words or terms are defined as follows:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future.
      (2)   Words in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes
the singular.
   (B)   Definitions.     Except as defined herein all other words used in this
chapter shall have their customary dictionary definition.
      ADMINISTRATOR.  The official charged with the enforcement of the zoning
ordinance, who is by formal resolution designated to the position by the
governing body. He or she may serve with or without compensation as determined
by the governing body.
      AGRICULTURE.  The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops,
horticulture, forestry and gardening, including the keeping of livestock and
poultry, and including any agricultural industry or business, such as fruit
packing plants, dairies or similar use.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare less than 30 feet wide.
      AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any lot place which is exposed to the weather upon
which more than 5 motor vehicles of any kind, incapable of being operated, and
which it would not be economically practical to make operative, are placed,
located or found.
      BILLBOARD.  Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, with any
area of more than 180 square feet, and also all those used as an outdoor
display for the purpose of making anything known, the origin or place of sale
of which is not on the lot with the display.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building where, for compensation, lodging and/or meals
are provided for at least 5 but not exceeding 14 persons.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls
and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to the main building on a lot
and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal building
and located on the same lot therewith.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the level of the
curb or the established curb grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof if a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridges of a
gable, hip or gambrel roof; for buildings set back from the street line, the
height shall be measured from the average elevation of the ground surface along
the front of the building.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which the building is situated.
      CAMPGROUND or TOURIST CAMP.  Any plot of land used, maintained or held
out to the public as a place for use for camping or lodging purposes, whether
or not equipped with tents, tent houses, huts, cabins or cottages, or not so
equipped, and by whatsoever the same may be called, whether any fee is charged
for the use thereof or not. These words shall not be construed to include a
hotel or tourist home.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.  Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and does not change
the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no display and not
more than 1 person, not a resident on the premises, is employed specifically in
connection with the CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Provided further, that no
mechanical equipment is installed or used except such that is normally used for
domestic or professional purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor
space of any structure is used for home occupations.
      DWELLING. A building designed, arranged or used for permanent living
quarters for 1 or more persons.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A structure arranged or designed to be occupied
by more than 1 family.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied
by 1 family, the structure having only 1 dwelling unit.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing living facilities
for 1 family.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying the premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, but not including a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, club, fraternity house or similar type dwelling.
      FARM WINERY. As defined by the town, irrespective of any other definition
means an establishment located on land in the town limits possibly with a
producing vineyard, orchard, or similar growing area but always with facilities
for processing, fermenting and bottling wine on the premises where the owner or
lessee manufactures wine that contains not more than 18% alcohol by volume. A
farm winery by definition can only be so designated by way of special use
permit within the town limits and is not permitted by right in any land use
district; no farm winery shall be permitted in town limits on sites of less
than 25 contiguous acres of land owned or controlled by special use permit
applicant. Note: a LICENSED FARM WINERY shall comply with VA Code § 15.2-
2288.3; there may be a distinction between FARM WINERY and LICENSED FARM
WINERY.
      FARM WINERY EVENT. An event conducted at a farm winery on 1 or more days
where the purpose is agritourism or to promote wine sales including, wine
fairs, receptions where wine is sold or served, wine club meetings and
activities, wine tasting, educational seminars, wine tasting luncheons,
business meetings, and corporate luncheons with a focus on selling wines,
gatherings with the purpose of promoting sales to the trade, such as
restaurants, distributors, and local chamber of commerce activities,
winemakers’ dinners where wine is paired with foods, agritourism promotions,
and fundraisers and charity events.
      GENERAL STORE. A store which offers for sale generally groceries, dry
goods and general hardware articles. Gasoline may also be offered for sale but
only as a secondary activity of a GENERAL STORE.
      HOTEL. A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of 15 or more individuals who are for compensation lodged, with
or without meals, and in which provision is not generally made for cooking in
individual rooms or suites.
      JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping buying or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. The term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building
or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on 2 or more streets at their intersection.
      LOT, DEPTH OR. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which has been recorded in the office of the County
Clerk of Court.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure, trans- portable in 1 or more sections, which in
the traveling mode is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in
length, or, when erected onsite, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area designed to accommodate 5 or more mobile homes
on a minimum area of 2 acres intended for residential use when residence is in
mobile homes exclusively.
      MANUFACTURE AND/OR MANU- FACTURING. The processing and/or converting of
raw, unfinished or finished materials or products.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by an existing
use which does not conform with the permitted uses for the zoning district in
which it is situated, either at the effective date of this chapter or as a
result of subsequent amendments to this chapter.
      PUBLIC GROUNDS.  Area reserved, by deed or otherwise, for public use
only.
      SETBACK.  The distance by which any building or structure must be
separated from the front lot line.
      SIGN.  Any outdoor sign, display, device, figure, painting, drawing,
message, placard, poster, billboard or other thing which is designed, intended
or used to advertise or inform, any part of the advertising or informative
contents of which is visible from any highway.
         (a)   Business. A sign which directs attention to a product, commodity
or service available on the premises.
         (b)   Home occupation.  A sign not exceeding 4 square feet in area
directing attention to a product, commodity or service available on the
premises, but which product, commodity or service is clearly a secondary use of
the dwelling.
         (c)   General advertising. Same as BILLBOARD definition.
         (d)   Location. A sign which directs attention to the approximate
location of an establishment from which the advertised product may be obtained.
         (e)   Directional. A directional sign is one (1 end of which is
pointed, or on which an arrow may be painted, indicating the direction to which
attention is called), 4 square feet or less in area, giving the name only of
the farm or business responsible for the erection of same.
      STREET.  A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
      STREET LINE.  The dividing line between a street or road and the
contiguous property; the right- of-way line.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected, the use of which required a
more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something
having more or less permanent location on the ground.
      TOURIST COURT, AUTO COURT, MOTEL, AUTEL or MOTOR LODGE. A group of
buildings containing individual sleeping rooms, designed for or used
temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with garage or parking space
conveniently located to each unit. Cooking facilities may be provided for each
unit.
      TOURIST HOME. A dwelling where lodging only is provided for compensation
for not exceeding 14 persons, in contradistinction to hotels and boarding
houses, and open to transients.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. Vehicular structure mounted on wheels which is designed
as temporary living accommodations for recreation, camping and travel use. Can
be easily towed by automobile or small truck and does not require special
highway movement permits.
      USE, ACCESSORY.  A subordinate use, customarily incidental and located
upon the same lot occupied by the main use.
      VINEYARD. A physical space, a place of land wherein grapes or other
similar crops which customarily grown in rows along and among raised trellises
are planted, cultivated and harvested, primarily as a product for juice, wines,
or other food and drink products, a vineyard is not the same thing necessarily
as a FARM WINERY. A winery is a processing, converting and manufacturing
operation; a vineyard may exist separate and apart from a winery operation; a
vineyard used for business or “for-profit” shall only be permitted by way of
special use permit in town limits and shall only be approved on sites of at
least 25 contiguous acres.
      YARD. An open space on a lot other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
      YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street
and the front line of the building, projected to the side lines of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear
line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines
of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE.  An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, situated between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear
yard.
      ZONE OR ZONING DISTRICT.  That area or territory divided and marked for a
specified use or purpose.
(1997 Code, § S9-2) (Am. Ord. passed - - )  
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 153.015 USE DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the incorporated territory of the town, as
set forth on the accompanying official zoning map, is hereby divided into 8
districts, designated as follows:
   (A)   Residential District – Single Family (R-1);
   (B)   General Residential District – Multi-Family (R-2);
   (C)   Residential District – Mobile Homes (R-MHP);
   (D)   Central Business District (B-1);
   (E)   General Business District (B-2);
   (F)    Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1);
   (G)   Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-2); and
   (H)   Floodplain District (FP).
(1997 Code, § S9-3-1) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.016 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND MAP.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established on the official
zoning map entitled “Town of Brookneal Zoning Map.” The zoning map and all the
notation, references and all amendments thereto, and other information shown
thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter. The properly attested zoning map
is on file in the office of the Administrator and is available for inspection
by the public.
(1997 Code, § S9-3-2) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.017 RULES AND INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way lines
or those lines extended, the centerlines, street lines or railroad right-of-way
lines shall be construed to be those boundaries;
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow the shore lines, and in the event of natural change in the shore line
shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated
as approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the centerlines;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map;
   (E)   Where physical or cultural features exist at variance with those shown
on the map, or in other circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (D)
above, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries, as
provided by
§ 153.111(D) of this chapter; and
   (F)   Where a zoning district abuts a street, highway, bypass, railroad
right-of-way or another zoning district, the depth of the district shall be at
least 200 feet, if no definite boundary is indicated, or marked, by a lot line.
(1997 Code, § S9-4)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.030 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Use. No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved or structurally
altered except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter or amendments
thereto for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Height and density. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered
so as to exceed the height limit or to exceed the density regulations of this
chapter for the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Lot size. No lot, even though it may consist of 1 or more adjacent
lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front,
side or rear yards, lot area per family or other requirements of this chapter
are not maintained.
   (D)   Yard use limitations. No part of a yard or other open space required
about any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space similarly
required for another building.
   (E)   Only 1 principal building on any lot. Only 1 principal building and
its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any lot, except
as authorized in §§
153.031 through
153.033, nor shall any building be erected on any lot which does not abut at
least 25 feet on a publicly dedicated or maintained street.
   (F)   Unzoned territory. In cases where a territory becomes a part of the
incorporated area of the town by annexation, the territory shall automatically
be classified as an “R-1” zone until otherwise classified by amendment to this
chapter.
(1997 Code, § S9-5)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.031 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Any building, structure or use of land existing at the time of the
enactment of this chapter or any amendment thereto, even though the use may not
conform with the provisions of this chapter for the zone in which it is
located, may be continued subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   They shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming use;
      (2)   Enlarged or extended except in conformity with this chapter;
      (3)   Reestablished after discontinuance for 2 years; or
      (4)   Rebuilt, altered or repaired after damage exceeding 60% of its fair
market value immediately prior to damage.
   (C)   The right of continuation of the existing use shall not be affected by
any change in ownership or tenancy.
(1997 Code, § S9-6-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.032 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on
every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established in all
districts; or, provided that no parking space can be reasonably provided on the
same lot, the space shall be provided on any lot, a substantial portion of
which is within 500 feet of the uses. No certificate of occupancy will be
issued upon completion of any building or group of buildings unless and until
all off- street parking and loading requirements, shown upon the plans or made
part of the building permit, shall be in place and ready for use.
      (1)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in 1 lot, but the required space assigned to 1 use may not be assigned
to another use at the same time, except that ½ of the parking space required
for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night
or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on
Sundays.
      (2)   Each automobile parking space shall be not less than 200 square
feet in area exclusive of adequate access drives and maneuvering space. The
space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley.
      (3)   This use shall not thereafter be encroached upon or altered and
shall be equal in number to at least the minimum requirement for the specific
use set forth below:
Use Classification Parking Space Requirement
Use Classification                                      Parking Space
                                                        Requirement
                                                        One space for each 2
                                                        employees at maximum
                                                        employment on a single
Automobile sales and repair                             shift, plus 2 spaces
                                                        for each 300 square
                                                        feet of repair or
                                                        maintenance space
                                                        Two spaces for each
Bowling alleys                                          alley, plus 1
                                                        additional space for
                                                        each 2 employees
Churches                                                Seating capacity of
                                                        auditorium divided by 5
                                                        Three spaces for each
Filling stations                                        grease rack or similar
                                                        facility
                                                        One space for each 4
                                                        patient beds, plus 1
Hospitals                                               space for each staff or
                                                        visiting doctor, plus 1
                                                        space for each 4
                                                        employees
                                                        One space for each 3
Hotels                                                  accommodations, plus 1
                                                        additional space for
                                                        each 5 employees
                                                        One space for each 4
Mortuary or funeral home                                seats in the assembly
                                                        room or chapel
                                                        One space for each
Motels, motor courts or tourist homes                   accommodation, plus 2
                                                        additional spaces for
                                                        employees
Offices – professional, business or public, including One space for each 300
banks                                                   square feet of gross
                                                        floor area
                                                        One space for each 4
Places of public assembly, including private clubs,     seats provided for
lodges and fraternal buildings not providing overnight  patron use, plus 1
accommodations, auditoriums, dance halls, pool rooms,   space for each 100
theaters, stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks,        square feet of floor or
community centers, libraries, museums and all other     ground area used for
similar places of public assembly                       amusement or assembly
                                                        but not containing
                                                        fixed seats
                                                        One space for each 2
                                                        guest rooms, plus 1
Rooming and boarding houses                             additional space for
                                                        the owner, if resident
                                                        on the premises
Residential dwellings                                   One space for each
                                                        dwelling unit
                                                        One space for each 200
Retail business                                         square feet of total
                                                        floor area
                                                        One space for each 6
                                                        patient beds, plus 1
Sanitariums, rest and convalescent homes                space for each staff or
                                                        visiting doctor, plus 1
                                                        space for each 4
                                                        employees
                                                        One space for each
                                                        classroom and
Elementary and junior high schools, including public    administrative office,
and private schools                                     plus adequate separate
                                                        parking space for
                                                        school buses
                                                        One parking space for
                                                        each 20 students for
                                                        which the building was
                                                        designed, plus 1
Senior high school                                      parking space for each
                                                        classroom and
                                                        administrative office,
                                                        plus adequate separate
                                                        parking space for
                                                        school buses
                                                        One space for each
Trailer parks and campgrounds                           sleeping unit or
                                                        camping space
 
   (B)   Uses not specifically listed above shall adhere to the parking
requirements of the most similar use category, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
(1997 Code, § S9-6-2)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.033 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry
hereafter erected shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and
unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. This space shall have
access to an alley or, if there is no alley, to a street.
      (1)   Retail business. One space of 600 square feet for each 5,000 square
feet of floor space; and
      (2)   Industrial and wholesale. One space of 600 square feet for each
10,000 square feet of floor space.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, an off-street loading space shall
have minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height above the alley or street grade
and 60 feet in depth from the alley or street line.
(1997 Code, § S9-6-3)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
USE, AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
§ 153.050 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT – SINGLE-FAMILY (R-1).
   (A)   Within a Residential District (R-1), the following uses shall be
permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling, provided there is but 1 main entrance which is
located in the front of the building, and provided that the building has no
outside characteristics, such as outside stairs, other than those common to a
single-family dwelling;
      (3)   Churches and cemeteries;
      (4)   Public schools and private schools;
      (5)   Fire stations and other public buildings and uses;
      (6)   Greenhouses and truck gardens which are incidental to the
residential uses and conducted on a nonprofit basis only;
      (7)   Grounds and facilities for recreational and community center
buildings, country clubs, lakes, parks and similar facilities operated on a
nonprofit basis;
      (8)   Public utility distribution lines, transformer stations,
transmission lines and towers, water tanks, but not service or storage yards;
      (9)   Customary home occupations, as defined in this chapter;
      (10)   Customary accessory buildings or structures, provided they shall
be permitted only in a rear yard and shall be not less than 10 feet from any
property line;
      (11)   Professional offices, such as medical, dental, legal, engineering
and architectural offices, conducted within the dwelling by the occupant or
resident member;
      (12)   Signs as follows:
         (a)   Home occupation sign, as defined;
         (b)   Public building or church bulletin board or sign; and
         (c)   Signs pertaining only to the lease, rent or sale of the property
upon which displayed, but not to exceed 4 square feet.
      (13)   Off-street parking as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Within a Residential District (R-1), the dimensional requirements
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area regulations. The minimum required lot area for a dwelling unit
with or without utilities is as follows:
         (a)   Public water and sewer, 10,000 square feet;
         (b)   Either public water or sewer, 15,000 square feet; and
         (c)   Neither public water or sewer, 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Setback regulations.  No building shall be closer than 35 feet to
the street line on which the lot fronts. This shall be known as the setback
line.
      (3)   Frontage regulations. The minimum required lot width of any lot at
the setback line shall not be less than 100 feet.
      (4)   Yard regulations.
         (a)   Rear yard. Each principal building shall have a rear yard of not
less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yard.  The minimum side yard shall be not less than 10 feet
and the total width of the 2 required side yards shall not be less than 25
feet.
      (5)   Corner lot regulations.
         (a)   Of the 2 sides of a corner lot, the front shall be deemed to be
the shorter of the 2 sides fronting on the streets.
         (b)   The side yard of the side facing the side street shall not be
less than 20 feet for both the principal and accessory buildings.
      (6)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No building shall be more than 40 feet in height from the street
level. (Grade)
         (b)   These height limitations shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flues, flagpoles,
television antennas and radio aerials.
(1997 Code, § S9-7-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.051 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT – MULTI-FAMILY (R-2).
   (A)   Within a General Residential District (R-2), the following uses shall
be permitted:
      (1)   All uses permitted in an R-1 Residential District;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings or apartment buildings;
      (3)   Rooming or boarding houses;
      (4)   Tourist homes;
      (5)   Nursery schools and kindergartens provided that at least 100 square
feet of outdoor play area is provided each child;
      (6)   General agriculture, when in existence at the time of adoption of
this chapter, provided that all livestock and poultry kept shall be kept within
secure enclosures, and further provided that any building or pen in which
livestock and poultry are kept shall be at least 200 feet from any street line
or any lot line;
      (7)   Hospitals and medical centers, upon approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals; and
      (8)   Off-street parking as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Within a General Residential District (R-2), the dimensional
requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area regulations:
         (a)   Minimum required lot area for first dwelling unit with or
without utilities is as follows:
            (1)    Minimum required lot area for first dwelling unit with or
without utilities is as follows:
            1.   Public water and sewer, 7,500 square feet;
            2.   Other public water or sewer, 10,000 square feet; or
            3.   Neither public water or sewer, 15,000 square feet.
         (b)   Lot area required for each additional unit in excess of 1 in a
multi-family dwelling is 2,000 square feet.
      (2)   Setback regulations. No building shall be closer than 25 feet to
the street line on which the lot fronts. This shall be known as the setback
line.
      (3)   Frontage regulations. The minimum required lot width of any lot at
the setback line shall not be less than 75 feet for single-family dwellings,
and for each dwelling unit over 1, there shall be at least 15 feet of
additional lot width at the setback line.
      (4)   Yard regulations.
         (a)   Rear yard. Each principal building shall have a rear yard of not
less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be not less than 8 feet
and the total width of the 2 required side yards shall not be less than 20
feet.
      (5)   Corner lot regulations.
         (a)   Of the 2 sides of a corner lot, the front shall be deemed to be
the shorter of the 2 sides fronting on the streets.
         (b)   The side yard on the side facing the side street shall not be
less than 18 feet for both the principal building and accessory buildings.
      (6)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No building shall be more than 50 feet in height from the street
level.
         (b)   These height regulations shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flues, flagpoles,
television and  radio antennas.
   (C)   Special uses within Residential District - Single-Family (R-1).
      (1)   Farm winery, vineyards, and directly related operations, only when
approved by Planning Commission and Town Council, and special use permit has
been obtained and all conditions of use are followed so long as such winery
and/or vineyard is in operation.
      (2)   Signs authorized in conjunction with an approved special use
permit.
(1997 Code, § S9-7-2) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.052 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT – MOBILE HOMES (R-MHP).
   (A)   Within a Mobile Home Residential District (R-MHP), the following uses
shall be permitted:
      (1)   Mobile home parks;
      (2)   Accessory structures;
      (3)   Home occupations, conducted by the occupant;
      (4)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (5)   Streets, access ways and off-street parking as required by this
chapter;
      (6)   Public utilities including poles, lines, distribution transformers,
pipes, meters and other facilities necessary for the provision and maintenance
of public utilities, including water and sewerage systems. Electrical
transmission lines are excluded; and
      (7)   Signs as follows:
         (a)   Home occupation sign, as defined; and
         (b)   Temporary real estate lease, rent or sale signs, but not to
exceed 4 square feet.
   (B)   Within a Mobile Home Residential District (R-MHP), the dimensional
requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area regulations.
         (a)   The minimum area for each mobile home park shall be 2 acres.
(Minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before first
occupancy is permitted shall be 5.)
         (b)   The minimum area for an individual mobile home space shall be
4,000 square feet.
         (c)   The minimum average width for each mobile home lot shall be 50
feet. This average shall be maintained between points 10 feet in front of the
mobile home stand and 10 feet to the rear of the stand.
         (d)   The total density of any mobile home park shall not exceed 7
units per gross acre.
      (2)   Yard and setback regulations.
         (a)   Minimum distance between mobile homes.  No mobile home shall be
placed within 25 feet of another.
         (b)   Yards abutting common area.  The distance from the line or
corner of the mobile home stand to a private access drive, a common parking
area, a common walk or other common area shall be 20 feet minimum. Patios,
carports and individual storage facilities shall be disregarded in determining
yard widths.
         (c)   Distance the mobile homes to be located from park boundary and
public streets. No mobile home shall be placed a lesser distance from the
mobile home park boundary than the side yard width required in the zoning
district in which the property adjoining each such boundary lies. In no case
shall any mobile home be placed less than 15 feet from the mobile home park
boundary. The distance from the line or corner of the mobile home stand to a
public street shall be as designated on the setback map or, if the setback is
not designated on that map, shall be located 35 feet or more from any street
right-of-way which is 50 feet or greater in width, or 60 feet or more from the
center of any street right-of-way less than 50 feet in width. This shall be
known as the setback line.
   (C)   Within a Mobile Rome Residential District (R-MHP) improvements shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Mobile home stand. A mobile home stand is part of an individual lot
which has been reserved for the placement of the mobile home.
         (a)   Placement. The mobile home stand placement shall provide for the
practical placement on and removal from the lot of both the mobile home and its
appurtenant structures, and the retention of the home in the lot in a stable
condition and in satisfactory relationship to its surroundings.
         (b)   Size. The size of the mobile home stand shall be suitable for
the general market to be served by the individual proposal and suitable to fit
dimensions of mobile homes anticipated, including mobile home appurtenant
structures or appendages.
         (c)   Location. The location of each mobile home stand shall be at the
elevation, distance and angle in relation to the access street and the mobile
home access way that placement and removal of the mobile home is practical.
         (d)   Construction. The construction of the mobile home stand shall be
of appropriate material, properly graded, placed and compacted, so as to be
durable and adequate for the support of the maximum anticipated loads during
all seasons.
         (e)   Gradient. There shall be 0% to 5% longitudinal gradient and
adequate crown or cross gradient for surface drainage.
         (f)   Markers for mobile home lots. Every mobile home lot shall be
clearly defined on the ground by permanent markers. There shall be posted and
maintained in a conspicuous place on each lot a number corresponding to the
number of each lot as shown on the site plan submitted so that each lot may be
easily identified.
            1.   Patio. Each mobile home lot shall provide an appropriate
outdoor living space to supplement the limited interior space of a mobile home.
               a.   Size. The minimum size of each mobile home lot outdoor
living space shall be 180 square feet.
               b.   Location. Every patio location shall be convenient to the
entrance of the mobile home, appropriately related to open areas of the lot and
other facilities, fitted to terrain and natural features, and related to
anticipated mobile home models.
               c.   Elevation. The patio shall be at an elevation at least as
high as the elevation of its mobile home stand. Where topographical conditions
permit, the patio and adjoining yard areas on the entry side of the mobile home
stand may be as much as 2 feet higher than mobile home stand in order that the
level of the patio and outdoor living areas will be close to the floor level of
an in-place mobile home. The grade difference between the patio and the stand
may be taken up by a retaining wall or cribbing or by an earth slope. Where the
patio is higher than the mobile home stand, adequate surface drainage of the
mobile home stand shall be provided across the other side or ends of the stand.
There shall be adequate crown or cross gradient for surface drainage.
               d.   Construction. Any subgrading shall be well drained,
uniformly graded and compacted. Construction shall provide a useful outdoor
surface constructed or formed either monolithically or in movable units with
weather- resistant materials placed sufficiently close together to create a
paved area.
            2.   Tenant storage.  Tenant storage shall provide storage
facilities on or conveniently near each mobile home lot for the active storage
of outdoor equipment, furniture and tools, and for the inactive storage of any
other material as is used only seasonally or infrequently by the typical tenant
and cannot be conveniently stored in the typical mobile home.
               a.   Size. There shall be a minimum of 90 cubic feet provided
for general storage for each mobile home lot.
               b.   Design and location of storage facilities. Storage
facilities shall be provided on the lot, or in compounds located within a
reasonable distance, not more than 100 feet from each stand, located not closer
to private streets and public streets than the mobile home unit itself. Storage
facilities shall be designed in a manner that will enhance the appearance of
the park and shall be constructed of suitable weather-resistant materials
appropriate under the use and maintenance contemplated.
      (2)   Streets. All streets, both public and private, serving mobile home
lots shall conform to the construction standards of the Virginia Department of
Highways and Transportation. Curbs and gutters are encouraged; however, in the
event that they are not provided, paved drainage facilities shall be provided.
         (a)   Alignment and gradient. Streets shall be adapted to the
topography and shall have suitable alignment and gradient for safety of
traffic, satisfactory surface and groundwater drainage, and proper functioning
of sanitary and storm sewer systems.
         (b)   Intersections. Street intersections shall generally be at right
angles. Off-sets at intersections and intersections of more than 2 streets at 1
point shall be avoided.
         (c)   Extent of improvements. The street improvements shall extend
continuously from the existing improved street system to provide suitable
access to the mobile home stands and other important facilities on the
property, to provide adequate connections to existing or future streets at the
destinations on the property.
         (d)   Grading.  Grading shall be for the full width of the street
providing suitable finish grades for pavement or sidewalks, thus assuring
adequate surface drainage and convenient access to the mobile home stands and
other important facilities on the property.
      (3)   Walks.  
         (a)   Walks shall be provided for safe, convenient, all-season
pedestrian access and shall be of adequate width for intended use and durable
and convenient to maintain.
         (b)   There shall be:
            1.   Individual walks to each mobile home stand from a paved
driveway or parking space connecting to a paved street;
            2.   Common walks in locations where pedestrian traffic is
concentrated; for example, at the court entrance and to the court office an
other important facilities. Common walks should preferably be through interior
areas removed from the vicinity of streets;
            3.   Width, alignment and gradient of walks shall be appropriate
for safety, convenience and appearance, and shall be suitable for use both by
pedestrians and for the circulation of small-wheeled vehicles such as baby
carriages and service carts;
            4.   Width shall generally be at least 3 feet for walks on
individual lots and at least 4 feet for common walks;
            5.   Sudden changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided;
            6.   Gradients shall be between 1/8 inch per foot (1%) and 5/8 inch
per foot (5%) wherever possible, especially in areas subject to ice conditions;
            7.   Maximum cross-slope shall be 1/4 inch per foot (2%) and
minimum shall be 1/8 inch per foot (1%). No required walk shall be used as a
drainage way; and
            8.   Pavement shall be cement concrete at least 4 inches in depth.
Joints shall be at regular intervals not exceeding twice the width of the walk.
The base should be a minimum of 4 inches thick and shall consist of crushed
stone, gravel or other appropriate durable material compacted to maximum
practical density.
      (4)   Parking spaces.  Parking spaces shall be provided at the rate of at
least 2 car spaces for each mobile home lot. Each parking space shall not be
less than 10 feet wide and 22 feet deep, shall be surfaced for its entire area
with durable, hard material, suitable for all-weather use, and shall have
unobstructed access to a public street or common street highway.
      (5)   Water supply.  An adequate supply of potable water approved by the
Health Department shall be furnished from a public water supply system or from
a private water system conforming to all applicable laws, regulations,
resolutions and ordinances, with supply faucets located on each mobile home
lot.
      (6)   Sewerage facilities. In each mobile home park, all waste or waste
water from a faucet, toilet, tub, shower, sink, slopsink, drain, washing
machine, garbage disposal unit or laundry shall empty into a Health Department-
approved sewer system.
      (7)   Garbage and trash disposal.  Corrosion-resistive metal garbage cans
or other noncombustible containers, with tight-fitting covers, shall be
provided in quantities adequate to permit disposal of all garbage and rubbish.
Each mobile home lot shall have at least 1 garbage can within 100 feet of it.
The cans shall be kept in sanitary condition as determined by inspection of the
Health Department. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than weekly to ensure that the
garbage cans shall not overflow.
      (8)   Electric lighting and outlets. All entrances, exits and driveways
shall be lighted at night. Not less than a 100-watt electric light shall be
provided for each 200 lineal feet of internal driveway and at each entrance and
exit to the mobile home park. At least 1 receptacle outlet for each mobile home
space shall be provided; this receptacle and other electric wiring shall
conform to the Uniform Statewide Building Code (USBC).
      (9)   Utility metering. All utilities shall be metered separately for
each mobile home and meet national and local standards.
      (10)   Storage tanks. Gasoline, liquefied petroleum, gas or oil storage
tanks shall be so installed as to comply with the USBC.
      (11)   Playgrounds and recreational facilities. Areas and facilities for
recreational purposes shall be provided in the park with an aggregate area of
not less than 1,000 square feet for each mobile home space. This area shall be
in addition to the minimum required mobile home space.
      (12)   Additions to mobile homes.  No permanent or semi-permanent
structure shall be affixed to any mobile home as an addition to the mobile
home, nor shall any accessory structure be permitted on any mobile home lot or
in any mobile home park except those accessory structures required by this
chapter and a structure to house an office. If an office structure is provided,
its construction shall comply with all applicable laws and ordinances. The
prohibition herein against any addition or accessory to a mobile home shall not
apply to a canopy or awning designed for use with a mobile home.
      (13)   Height regulations. No mobile home shall exceed 14 feet in height
nor shall any storage facility or other accessory structure exceed the height
of any mobile home which it serves. Utilities, television antennae and radio
aerials are exempt.
      (14)   Mobile home standards.
         (a)   Plumbing, heating, electrical.  
            1.   Every mobile home occupied as a dwelling unit located in the
town after the date of the adoption of this chapter shall meet the minimum
standards for plumbing, heating and electrical systems as defined by the
American National Standards Institute Publication A 119.1 (ANSI A119.1) or the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCS). Mobile
homes that do not meet these minimum standards for plumbing, heating and
electrical systems will not be issued an occupancy permit by the Zoning
Administrator.
            2.   The minimum standards for plumbing, heating and electrical
systems as defined by the ANSI 119.1 or FMHCS as amended and revised
periodically, are hereby made a part of and incorporated by reference into this
chapter.
         (b)   Skirting and underpinning. Skirting or underpinning shall be
required of all mobile homes. Skirting shall be of such material that it
enhances the appearance of the individual unit.
      (15)   Requirements for permitted uses.  Before a zoning permit shall be
issued or construction begun on any permitted use in this district, detailed
site plans, indicating compliance with the substantive provisions of this
chapter, shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for study. The
Administrator may refer these plans to the Planning Commission for their
recommendations. Modification of the plans may be required.
   (D)   Special uses within Residential District - Mobile Homes (R-MHP).
(1997 Code, § S9-7-3) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.053 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Within a Central Business District (B-1), the following uses shall be
permitted:
      (1)   All retail establishments such as department, clothing, variety,
drug, furniture, notion, hardware, appliance, music, art, antique, gift,
sporting goods, toy, hobby, book and stationery stores;
      (2)   Any residential or industrial use in existence at the time of
adoption of this chapter;
      (3)   Assembly halls, coliseums, gymna- siums, and similar structures;
      (4)   Automobile parking establishments and/or sales lots for new or used
cars;
      (5)   Automobile and truck sales, service and storage and repair shops;
      (6)   Automobile washing establishments;
      (7)   Bakeries and other establishments manufacturing prepared foods and
miscellaneous food products, provided the majority of their products are sold
at retail on the premises only;
      (8)   Banks and other financial institutions, including loan and
financial companies;
      (9)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (10)   Bicycle sales and repair;
      (11)   Bowling alleys and billiard or pool halls;
       (12)   Bus terminals;
      (13)   Business colleges, barber and beauty schools, art schools, music
schools, vocational trade schools and similar organizations;
      (14)   Churches and customary accessory uses;
      (15)   Cold storage or freezer lockers;
      (16)   Dairy bars and ice cream manufacture for retail sales on the
promises only;
      (17)   Dry cleaning and laundry estab- lishments;
      (18)   Fabricating shops of small size such as sheet metal works,
woodworking shops, cabinet shops and upholstery shops, provided the majority of
their products are sold at retail on the premises only;
      (19)   Fire departments and rescue squads;
      (20)   Florist shops;
      (21)   Food stores, retail only;
      (22)   Funeral homes or mortuaries;
      (23)   Furriers and fur storage;
      (24)   Hotels, apartment hotels or motels;
      (25)   Household appliance, sales and repair, but excluding open storage;
      (26)   Ice pick-up stations;
      (27)   Jewelry sales and repair;
      (28)   Libraries, museums and art galleries;
      (29)   Lock- and gunsmiths;
      (30)   Machinery sales and service, upon approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals;
      (31)   Medical and dental clinics, and hospitals;
      (32)   Newspaper offices and/or newsstands;
      (33)   Offices – business, professional and public;
      (34)   Office equipment and supplies, sales and service;
      (35)   Opticians and optical supplies sales;
      (36)   Pawn shops;
      (37)   Photographic studio and camera supply stores;
      (38)   Physical cultural establishments;
      (39)   Printing, publishing and reproduction establishments;
      (40)   Public parks and public grounds;
      (41)   Public utility distribution lines, transformer stations,
transmission lines and towers, water tanks and towers, and telephone exchanges,
but not service or storage yards, except upon approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals;
      (42)   Radio and television stations, studios and offices;
      (43)   Railway express offices;
      (44)   Restaurants;
      (45)   Service or filling stations;
      (46)   Shoe repair shops;
      (47)   Signs, other than billboards, as defined in this chapter;
      (48)   Tailor, dressmaking and millinery shops;
      (49)   Taxicab office or stand;
      (50)   Telegraph or messenger service office;
      (51)   Theaters, housed in a permanent indoor structure;
      (52)   Tire recapping and retreading; and
      (53)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same
lot as the main structure, excluding, however, open storage.
   (B)   Within the Central Business District (B-1), the dimensional
requirements shall be as follows:
      (1) Area, setback and frontage regulations.  There shall not be lot area
or lot width or setback requirements for the Central Business District (B-1).
      (2)   Yard regulations. No side or rear yard shall be required in the
Central Business District.
      (3)   Parking regulations.  Off-street parking need not be provided as
required in this chapter.
      (4)   Loading and unloading regulations. Off-street loading and unloading
space need not be provided as required in this chapter.
      (5)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No building shall be more than 40 feet in height from the street
level.
         (b)   These height regulations shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flues, flagpoles,
television and radio antennas.
   (C)   Special uses within Central Business District (B-1).
(1997 Code, § S9-7-4) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.054 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-2).
   (A)   Within a Business District (B-2), the following uses shall be
permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in B-1 Central Business District;
      (2)   Building supply and equipment sales;
      (3)   Business, location and directional signs;
      (4)   Clubs, or other places of entertainment carried on wholly within a
completely enclosed building;
      (5)   Farm equipment sales and service;
      (6)   Golf or baseball driving ranges, miniature golf courses and other
similar recreational facilities;
      (7)   Greenhouse or horticultural nurseries;
      (8)   Public utility distribution lines, transformer stations,
transmission lines and towers, water tanks and towers, and telephone exchanges;
      (9)   Parks and picnic areas;
      (10)   Public uses, including any as volunteer fire departments or rescue
squads;
      (11)   Service or filling stations, provided that gasoline pumps or other
appliances shall be located at least 12 feet behind the property line, and all
service, storage or similar activities connected with the use shall be
conducted entirely within the premises;
      (12)   Skating rinks, permanent;
      (13)   Theaters, drive-in, upon approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals
and subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   No part of any theater screen, projection booth, or other
building shall be located closer than 300 feet to any residential district or
closer than 50 feet to any property line or public right-of- way; and
         (b)   The theater screen shall not be visible from any street or
highway.
      (14)   Mobile home and travel trailer sales, provided that none are
displayed less than 25 feet from the front property line;
      (15)   Veterinary clinic, provided all animals being housed are located
in an enclosed building;
      (16)   Customary accessory uses and structures when located on the same
lot as the main structure;
      (17)   General store; and
      (18)   Wholesale business, storage warehouses and tobacco sales
warehouses.
   (B)   Within the Business District (B-2), the dimensional requirements shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Area and frontage regulations. There shall be no lot area or lot
width requirements for the General Business District (B-2).
      (2)   Setback regulations. Minimum required front yard, or setback from
street or road right-of- way, 25 feet.
      (3)   Yard regulations.
         (a)   Minimum required side yard on each side of every principal
building, 15 feet.
         (b)   Minimum required rear yard, 15 feet.
      (4)   Height regulations.
         (a)   Maximum height of any building, 40 feet.
         (b)   These height regulations shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flues, flagpoles,
television and radio antennas.
      (5)   Parking regulations. Off-street parking shall be provided as
required in this chapter.
      (6)   Loading and unloading regulations.  Off-street loading and
unloading space shall be provided as required in this chapter.
   (C)   Special uses within Central Business District (B-2).
(1997 Code, § S9-7-5) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.055 MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-1).
   (A)   Within a Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1), the following
uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in B-1 and B-2 Business Zones;
      (1)   Any use permitted in B-1 and B-2 Business Zones;
      (2)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above;
      (3)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of light metal parts
only, such as coils, condensers, transformers and crystal holders;
      (4)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, repairing,
rebuilding, reconditioning, body and fender work, truck repairing or
overhauling; tire retreading, recapping of tires, battery manufacture;
      (5)   Building material sales yard;
      (6)   Laboratories, pharmaceutical and medical;
      (7)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products
except the following: fish, meat, sauerkraut, pickles, vinegar, yeast and the
rendering of fats and oils;
      (8)   Manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles of
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone, cellophane,
canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather,
paper, plastic, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet metal, shell,
steel, straw, tin, textiles, tobacco, wood, yarn and paint;
      (9)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and rubber and
metal stamps;
      (10)   Manufacture of furniture, textiles or component parts thereof, or
other nonobjectionable products from raw materials or from a combination of raw
materials and previously prepared materials;
      (11)   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (12)   Signs, billboards and others as defined in this chapter;
      (13)   Stone monument works, wholesale;
      (14)   Veterinary or dog or cat hospital; kennels; and
      (15)   Wholesale business; storage warehouse and tobacco sales warehouse.
   (B)   Uses not permitted.  
      (1)   Regardless of the permission of any of the above uses, no such use
shall be permitted if it creates a nuisance by reason of excessive smoke, dust,
noxious or nauseous fumes, noise or vibration. The official responsible for the
issuance of zoning permits shall refuse to issue the permits if, in his or her
opinion, the permitted use would violate this section.
      (2)   Without limitations, such industries as steel mills, petroleum
refineries, asphalt plants, fertilizer plants, pulp and paper mills, automobile
graveyards as defined by this chapter, junkyards, open garbage and trash dumps
shall be forbidden in this or any other district.
   (C)    Within the Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1), the
dimensional requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area, frontage, setback and height regulations. There shall be no
lot area or lot width or setback or height requirements for the Manufacturing
and Industrial District (M-1).
      (2)   Yard regulations.  
         (a)   Where a lot in the Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1)
abuts any residential district, there shall be a side and/or rear yard
clearance of at least 10 feet on the side and/or rear lot line abutting the
residential district. Upon any side and/or rear lot line which abuts a
residential district, there shall be provided along the common lot line
screening in the form of a wall or fence, supplemented by planting, all of a
nature and density that it will screen the activities on the industrial and
wholesale property from view from the normal level of the first-floor windows
of the residential property. No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a
street right-of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining
residential lot.
         (b)   No side or rear yard shall be required where a lot does not abut
a residential district. If a side yard is provided, however, then each side
yard shall be at least 4 feet in width.
      (3)   Parking regulations. Off- street parking shall be provided as
required in this chapter.
      (4)   Loading and unloading regulations.  Off-street loading and
unloading space shall be provided as required in this chapter.
      (5)   Coverage regulations.  No building or group of buildings with their
accessory buildings shall cover more than 70% of the area of the lot.
   (D)   Special uses within Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1).
(1997 Code, § S9-7-6) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.056 MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-2).
   (A)   Within a Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-2); the following
uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in M-1 Manu-facturing and Industrial District;
      (2)   Blacksmith shop, welding or machine shops, excluding punch presses
exceeding 40-ton rated capacity and drop hammers;
      (3)   Boiler shops;
      (4)   Brick manufacture;
      (5)   Coal and wood yards, lumber yards;
      (6)   Concrete mixing or batching plant;
      (7)   Contractors’ equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
      (8)   Cotton spinning mills;
      (9)   Crushed stone operations;
      (10)   Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
      (11)   Feed and flour mills;
      (12)   Meat, poultry and seafood processing and packing operations;
      (13)   Metal fabrication shops;
      (14)   Sand and gravel operations;
      (15)   Stationary sawmills and planing mills, including chippers and
debarkers and other appurtenances;
      (16)   Storage, gasoline, bulk oil and petroleum as such;
      (17)   Truck terminals; and
      (18)   Wood-preserving operations.
   (B)   Uses not permitted.
      (1)   Regardless of the permission of any of the above uses, no such use
shall be permitted if it creates a nuisance by reason of excessive smoke, dust,
noxious or nauseous fumes, noise or vibration. The official responsible for the
issuance of zoning permits shall refuse to issue the permits if, in his or her
opinion, the permitted use would violate this section.
      (2)   Without limitations, such industries as steel mills, petroleum
refineries, asphalt plants, fertilizer plants, pulp and paper mills, automobile
graveyards as defined by this chapter, junkyards, open garbage and trash dumps
shall be forbidden in this or any other district.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Within the Manufacturing and Industrial
District (—2), the dimensional requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   Area, frontage, setback and height regulations. There shall be no
lot area or lot width or setback or height requirements for the Manufacturing
and Industrial District (M-2).
      (2)   Yard regulations.
         (a)   Where a lot in the Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-2)
abuts any residential district, there shall be a side and/or rear yard
clearance of at least 10 feet on the side and/or rear lot line abutting the
residential district. Upon any side and/or rear lot line which abuts a
residential district, there shall be provided along the common lot line
screening in the form of a wall or fence, supplemented by planting, all of a
nature and density that it will screen the activities on the industrial and
wholesale property from view from the normal level of the first-floor windows
of the residential property. No such buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a
street right-of-way line than the established building line of the adjoining
residential lot.
         (b)   No side or rear yard shall be required where a lot does not abut
a residential district. If a side yard is provided, however, then each side
yard shall be at least 4 feet in width.
      (3)   Parking regulations. Off- street parking shall be provided as
required in this chapter.
      (4)   Loading and unloading regulations. Off-street loading and unloading
space shall be provided as required in this chapter.
      (5)   Coverage regulations. No building or group of buildings with their
accessory buildings shall cover more than 70% of the area of the lot.
   (D)   Special uses within Manufacturing and Industrial (M-2).
      (1)   Farm winery, vineyards, and related operations, only when approved
by Planning Commission and Town Council, and special use permit has been
obtained and all conditions of use are followed so long as such winery and/or
vineyard is in operation.
      (2)   Signs authorized in conjunction with an approved special use
permit.
(1997 Code, § S9-7-7) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.057 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (FP).
   (A)   District regulations.
      (1)   The approximated Floodplain District (FP) shall be that floodplain
area for which no detailed flood profiles or elevations are provided, but where
a 100-year floodplain boundary has been approximated. These areas are shown on
the flood hazard boundary map for the town. Where the specific 100-year flood
elevation cannot be determined for this area using other sources of data, such
as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, floodplain information reports, U.S.
geological survey flood-prone quadrangles and the like, then the applicant for
the proposed use, development and/or activity shall determine this elevation in
accordance with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers licensed
by the Commonwealth of Virginia. Studies, analyses, computations and the like
shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough review by the town.
      (2)   (a)   The Floodplain District shall be overlaid to the existing
zoning districts as shown on the adopted zoning map and as such, the provisions
of the Floodplain District shall serve in addition to the provisions of the
underlying district.
         (b)   Where there happens to be any conflict between the provisions or
requirements of this district and those of any underlying district, the more
restrictive provisions and/or those pertaining to the Floodplain District shall
apply.
         (c)   If in the event any provision concerning the Floodplain District
is declared inapplicable as a result of any legislative or administrative
actions or judicial discretion, the underlying district regulations shall
remain applicable.
      (3)   The boundaries of the floodplain are established as shown on the
flood boundary and floodway map which shall be a part of this chapter, and
these maps shall be kept on file with the zoning maps for the town.
      (4)   The boundaries of the floodplain may be changed in accordance with
§ 153.017 when natural or manmade changes have occurred or more detailed
studies have been conducted by an approved agency corporation or individual
which shows the need or possibility of this change.
      (5)   The interpretation of floodplain boundaries shall be made by the
Zoning Administrator. Should a dispute arise concerning the boundaries of the
floodplain, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary interpretation
in accordance with §§
153.110 through
153.115.
   (B)   Use regulations. All uses, activities and development occurring within
any floodplain district shall be undertaken only upon the issuance of a zoning
permit. This development shall be undertaken only in strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable codes and ordinances such
as the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, the subdivision ordinance of
the town, and any other federal, state and local requirements deemed necessary.
      (1)   Permitted uses.  The following uses and activities are permitted,
provided they are in compliance with the provisions of the underlying district,
and provided that they do not require structures, fill or the storage of
materials and equipments:
         (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and
wild crop harvesting;
         (b)   Public and private recreational uses and activities such as
parks, day camps, picnic grounds, golf courses, hiking, and horseback riding
trails, wildlife and nature preserves;
         (c)    Accessory residential uses such as yard areas, gardens, play
areas and previously established loading areas; and
         (d)   Accessory industrial and commercial uses such as yard areas,
previous parking and loading areas and airport landing strips.
      (2)   Special exceptions. The following uses may be permitted by a
special exception granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with §§
153.110 through
153.115, provided they are in compliance with the regulations of the underlying
district:
         (a)   Structures except for mobile homes and mobile office trailers as
accessories to the permitted uses;
         (b)   Utilities and public facilities and improvements such as
railroads, streets, bridges, transmission lines, pipelines, water and sewer
treatment plants, and other similar or related uses;
         (c)   Extraction of sand, gravel and other materials where no increase
in level of flooding or velocity is caused;
         (d)   Temporary uses such as circuses, carnivals and similar
activities; and
         (e)   Storage of materials and equipment, provided that they are not
buoyant, flammable or explosive, are not subject to major damage by flooding,
or provided that the material and equipment is firmly anchored to prevent
flotation or movement, and/or can be readily removed from the area.
   (C)   Considerations for exceptions. In issuing the special exceptions, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall act in accordance with §§
153.110 through
153.115 and in every case shall take into consideration the following:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments. No special exception shall be granted for
any proposed use, development or activity within the Floodplain District that
will cause any increase in flood levels during the 100-year flood;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owners;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in time of flood of ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Any other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (D)   Existing structures located in the Floodplain District. Existing
structures or uses which are located within the Floodplain District, which do
not meet the requirements of this subchapter, shall become nonconforming uses
and shall be in accordance with the provisions of §§
153.031 through
153.033.
   (E)   Municipal liability. The degree of flood protection sought by the
provisions of this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on
rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes,
such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted
within those districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (F)   Special uses within Floodplain District (FP).
(1997 Code, § S9-7-8) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 153.070 LOT OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot, consisting of 1 or more lots of official record in
any district at the time of the adoption of this chapter, or his or her
successor in title thereto does not own sufficient contiguous land to enable
him or her to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this chapter, the
lot may be used as a building site; provided, however, that the other
requirements of the district are complied with or a variance is obtained from
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.071 FRONT YARD SETBACKS FOR DWELLINGS.
   The front yard setback requirements of this chapter for dwellings shall not
apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings, located
wholly or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed dwelling and
on the same street as that lot, is less than the minimum required front yard
depth. In that case the setback on the lots may be less than the required
setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the
aforementioned lots, or within 10 feet of the street right-of-way line,
whichever is greater.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-2)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.072 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, silos, chimneys, smokestacks,
conveyors, flagpoles, radio towers, towers, masts, aerials and similar
structures, except as otherwise provided in the vicinity of airports.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-3)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.073 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any residential district no planting, structure, fence,
wall or obstruction to vision more than 3 feet in height shall be placed or
maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street lines
and a straight line connecting points on the street lines, each of which is 25
feet distant from the point of intersection.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-4)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.074 CORNER LOTS.
   In any residential district the side yard requirements for corner lots along
the side street line shall have an extra width of 10 feet.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-5)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.075 TRAILER STORAGE.
   One travel trailer may be parked or stored in an enclosed garage or
accessory building, or on any lot, provided that no living quarters shall be
maintained or any business practiced while the trailer is so parked or stored.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-6)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.076 GROUP PROJECTS.
   In the case of 2 or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground of
at least 2 acres, not subdivided into the customary streets and lots and which
will not be so subdivided, the application of the terms of this chapter may be
varied by the Board of Zoning Appeals in a manner that will be in harmony with
the character of the neighborhood, provided:
   (A)   The uses are limited to those permitted within the zoning district in
which the project is located. In no case shall the Board authorize a use
prohibited in the district in which the project is to be located;
   (B)   The overall intensity of land use is no higher, and the standard of
open space is no lower than that permitted in the district in which the project
is located;
   (C)   The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall
meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which
the project is located;
   (D)   The building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the
district in which the project is located;
   (E)   Off-street parking, loading and unloading space shall be provided as
required in this chapter; and
   (F)   If the group project is industrial or commercial in nature and abuts
any residential district, there shall be provided along the common lot line
screening in the form of a wall or fence, supplemented by planting, all of a
nature and density that it will screen the activities on the business property
from view from the normal level of the first-floor windows of the residential
property. No buffer shall, however, extend nearer to a street right-of-way line
than the established building line of the adjoining residential lot.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-7)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.077 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR.
   If a use is not specifically permitted in any district established under
this chapter and an application is made by a property owner for that use, the
Administrator shall refer the application to the Planning Commission which
shall make its recommendation to the Town Council within 60 days. If the
recommendation of the Planning Commission is approved by the Town Council, this
chapter shall be amended in accordance with provisions contained herein.
(1997 Code, § S9-8-8)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.090 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized, and it shall be his or her duty to
enforce and administer the provisions of this chapter, and report to the Town
Council monthly.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.091 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, extended or
enlarged, or structurally altered until a zoning permit for the work has been
issued by the Zoning Administrator. No zoning permit is required if the cost of
construction repair or improvement is less than $500; however, the other
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-2)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.092 APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a plot
plan or sketch in duplicate showing:
      (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The size of the building to be erected;
       (3)   The location of the building on the lot;
      (4)   The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
      (5)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate;
      (6)   The approximate setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots; and
      (7)   Any other information as may be essential for determining whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
   (B)   Any zoning permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
authorized by it shall have been commenced within 6 months of its date of issue
or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of 1
year.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-3)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.093 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Administrator is required for
each new use or altered use of land and buildings in each district and shall be
applied for simultaneously with the application for a zoning permit. This
certificate shall state that the building, the proposed use or use of the land
complies with the provisions of this chapter, and shall be issued within 10
days after the erection or structural alteration of the building or proposed
use of land has conformed with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Administrator is required for
each nonconforming use created by the passage of and/or subsequent amendments
to this chapter. The owner of the nonconforming use shall obtain a certificate
of occupancy within 30 days of the date of the passage or amendments. This
certificate shall be used for maintaining, renewing, changing or extending any
nonconforming use created by passage of and/or subsequent amendments to this
chapter.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-4)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.094 REMEDIES.
   In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in
violation, in addition to other remedies, the town may institute injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate action in proceeding to prevent the violation.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-6)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.095 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter, including the zoning map, may be amended, supplemented,
changed or modified from time to time by an affirmative vote of at least a
majority of the members of the Town Council, provided:
   (A)   Changes in this chapter, including the zoning map, shall be made by
the Town Council only after the changes have been referred to the Planning
Commission for a report. Action shall be taken by the Town Council only after
receiving the report of the Planning Commission. Failure of the Planning
Commission to report 30 days after date of referral to the Planning Commission
shall be deemed approval of the change or amendment;
   (B)   Notice shall be given of the time and place of a public hearing as
prescribed in VA Code, § 15.2-2204, as amended; and
   (C)   A public hearing shall be held in relation thereto at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
(1997 Code, § S9-11-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 153.110 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of 5 members shall be appointed
by the Circuit Court of the county. The Board shall serve without pay other
than for traveling expenses.
   (B)   Appointments for vacancies occurring otherwise than by expiration of
term shall in all cases be for the unexpired term. The term of office shall be
for 5 years. One of the 5 appointed members shall be an active member of the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Members may be removed for cause by the appointing authority upon
written charges and after a public hearing. Any member of the Board shall be
disqualified to act upon a matter before the Board with respect to property in
which the member has an interest.
   (D)   The Board shall choose its own Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
Secretary.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-1)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.111 POWERS OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Administrator in the administration or enforcement of
this chapter;
   (B)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases a variance from the terms
of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, when owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of these provisions will result in
unnecessary hardship; provided that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done as prescribed in VA Code, § 15.2-2309, as
amended.
      (1)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds:
         (a)   That the strict application of this chapter would produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   That this hardship is not shared generally by other properties
in the same zoning district and the same vicinity; and
         (c)   That the authorization of the variance will not be of
substantial detriment to adjacent property and that the character of the
district will not be changed by the granting of the variance.
      (2)   No such variance shall be authorized except after notice and
hearing as required by VA Code, § 15.2-2204, as amended.
      (3)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to this chapter.
      (4)   In authorizing a variance the Board may impose any conditions
regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed structure
or use as it may deem necessary in the public interest, and may require a
guarantee or bond to ensure that the conditions imposed are being and will
continue to be complied with.
   (C)   (1)   To hear and decide appeals from the decision of the Zoning
Administrator or applications for such special exceptions as may be authorized
in this chapter. The Board may impose conditions relating to the use for which
a permit is granted as it may deem necessary in the public interest and may
require a guarantee or bond to ensure that the conditions imposed are being and
will continue to be complied with.
      (2)   No special exception may be granted except after notice and hearing
as provided by VA Code, § 15.2-2204, as amended. Under §§
153.050 through
153.057 of this chapter, special exception uses are followed by the words “upon
approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.”
   (D)   To hear and decide applications for interpretation of the district map
where there is any uncertainty as to the location of a district boundary. After
notice to the owners of the property affected by any such question, and after
public hearing with notice as required by VA Code, § 15.2-2204, as amended, the
Board may interpret the map in a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter for the particular section or district in question. The Board
shall not have the power, however, to rezone property or substantially to
change the location of district boundaries as established by ordinance.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-2)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.112 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt the necessary rules to conduct its
affairs and establish meeting dates. All meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public, and a public record of all findings and official actions shall be
maintained. The concurring vote of 3 members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any decision of the Administrator or his or her authorized
representative, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which
it is required to consider under this chapter.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-3)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.113 FILING AND NOTICE FOR AN APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeals from the enforcement and interpretation of this chapter and
requests for special exceptions and variances shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator within 30 days after the decision appealed from, or at any time
for requests for special exceptions and variances, specifying the grounds
thereof. The Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals all
applications and records pertaining to these appeals, variances or special
exceptions.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeals, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to
the parties in interest and decide the same within 60 days. In exercising its
powers the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Administrator certifies to the Board that, by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or
by a court of record, on application and on notice to the Administrator and for
good cause shown.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-4)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.114 FEES; CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENT OF REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Applications to the Board of Zoning Appeals for appeals, variances and
special exceptions are subject to a processing fee of up to $500.00, payable to
the Clerk/Treasurer of Brookneal, to assist in offsetting the costs of
advertising and administrative processing of such applications.
   (B)   Applications to the Board of Zoning Appeals for appeals, variances and
special exceptions shall be accompanied by a Certification from the Town Clerk/
Treasurer that all real estate taxes on the subject parcel or parcels are
current.
   (C)   Depending on the nature and magnitude of the appeal, variance, or
special exception, Town Council or staff may at their discretion reduce the
fees for processing such request provided such reduction is justified by
supporting reasoning and documentation and that such reduction is not arbitrary
or without merit.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-5) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.115 APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Zoning Appeals, or any taxpayer, or officer, department, board or
bureau of the county may, within 30 days after the filing of the decision in
the office of the Board, but not thereafter, present to the Circuit Court a
petition specifying the grounds on which aggrieved, whereupon the decision of
the Board shall be subject to review by certiorari as provided by law, as
prescribed in VA Code, § 15.2-2204, as amended.
(1997 Code, § S9-10-6)  (Am. Ord. passed - - )
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.150 INTENT OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROVISION.
   The special use permit procedure is intended as a means for Town Council,
after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, to authorize
certain uses which may possibly be generally appropriate in a zoning district
but have potentially greater impacts on neighboring properties or on the
community in general than uses which are permitted by right. The special use
permit procedure provides the opportunity for Town Council to review each
proposed special use to determine if said use should be authorized, and if so,
to impose such conditions as reasonably necessary to ensure the use will be
compatible with the surrounding area and will be consistent with the purposes
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.151 USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The uses which shall be subject to regulations governing a special use
permit are listed for each zoning district.
      (1)   Zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, site plans, and other
reviews and approvals required by this chapter are required for special uses in
the same manner for other uses. No zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy
for a building devoted to a special use, shall be issued unless a special use
permit has been approved.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.152 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   All applications for a special use permit shall be reviewed by town
staff, Planning Commission, and Town Council. The special use permit
application enumerates the specific information necessary for a thorough review
of the proposed special use; review criteria shall include but not be limited
to the following:
      (1)   The proposed use shall be in harmony with the comprehensive plan;
in harmony with the intent and purpose of the zoning district in which the
proposed use is located; and in harmony with the character of adjacent
properties and the surrounding neighborhood and with existing and proposed
development.
      (2)   The proposed use shall not result in the destruction, loss, or
damage of any feature determined to be of significant ecological, scenic or
historic importance.
      (3)   The proposed use shall be designed, sited and landscaped so that
the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate development or use of
adjacent properties and surrounding neighborhoods.
      (4)   The proposed use shall include the provision for or arrangement of,
where applicable:
         (a)   Sewer, water and other public utilities;
         (b)   Ingress and egress, including access for fire and other
emergency vehicles;
         (c)   Off-street parking, loading, and vehicle circulation, including
adequate consideration of the safety of motorists and pedestrians;
         (d)   Yards, open spaces, relationship among buildings and other
elements of the site;
         (e)   Retention of natural vegetation and topographic features; and
         (f)   Landscaping, buffering, screening, fences and other features to
protect adjacent properties from potential adverse effects of the use.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.153 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In granting a special use permit, the Town Council may impose any
conditions necessary to assure that the proposed use will conform to the
requirements of this section. The Town Council and staff may take any and all
necessary actions allowable under the law to ensure compliance with the
conditions imposed.
   (B)   The following standard conditions shall apply to all special use
permits granted by the Town Council. The Town Council and staff shall have the
authority to waive or modify any listed condition if deemed to be in the best
interests of the area of the proposed activity or of the town.
      (1)   Any proposed expansion of the operation, change of activities or
additional facilities or activities shall be submitted to the Town of Brookneal
Zoning Administrator for review prior to implementation. Any changes may be
subject to permit amendment procedures, including public hearings.
      (2)   All "start-up" and ongoing activities, land disturbance, and
construction shall be in compliance with all applicable local, state, and
federal regulations and statutes. This shall include, but not be limited to,
Environmental Protection Agency, Virginia Department of Environmental Quality,
Virginia Department of Health, Virginia Department of Transportation, Campbell
County Public Safety, and Campbell County Erosion and Sediment Control
Ordinance.
      (3)   The permittee is responsible for orderly appearance of the site,
including litter pick-up.
      (4)   All wastewater entering the Town of Brookneal wastewater treatment
system shall be certified as being acceptable for treatment by the Town of
Brookneal Public Works Department. On-site wastewater treatment systems shall
be certified by the Virginia Department of Health as being suitable for all
activities' discharges.
      (5)   All facilities for the provision of potable water shall be approved
by the Town of Brookneal Public Works Department or Campbell County, or the
Virginia Department of Health, as applicable.
      (6)   All exterior lighting, including the lighting of any signs, shall
be designed and installed so as to prevent glare onto adjoining properties or
onto any street or road.
      (7)   Any existing or proposed fencing which is electrified shall have
signage placed on or adjacent to the fence, spaced a maximum of 30 feet apart,
as a notice of fence electrification.
      (8)   Facility entrances shall be permitted and installed in accordance
with requirements of the Virginia Department of Transportation.
      (9)   All internal roads shall have a minimum 2 inch stone base or shall
be paved.
      (10)   Adequate area shall be provided on-site to accommodate parking of
all employees and visitors. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to
assure that all parking is on-site and not on the street right-of-way, or on
adjoining or adjacent parcels unless written consent is obtained from the owner
or owners thereof.
      (11)   A special use permit is transferable from one property owner or
authorized agent or representative to another owner, agent or authorized
representative having an interest in the same property provided there are no
changes to the existing, approved, special use permit and the new property
owner, agent, or representative agrees to comply with all conditions imposed
with original permit issuance. If a new owner, agent or representative desires
to amend any of the original permit conditions, such a request must be
addressed by the Brookneal Planning Commission and Brookneal Town Council
through the special use permit public hearing process.
      (12)   Failure of the permittee at any time to fully comply with all of
permit terms and conditions may result in revocation of the special use permit
and legal action including injunction.
      (13)   A special use permit is severable. Invalidation of any word,
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or condition shall not invalidate the
remainder.
   (C)   The Town Council may impose any additional reasonable standards as
deemed necessary to protect the public interest and welfare. Such standards may
include, but need not be limited to:
      (1)   More restrictive sign standards.
      (2)   Additional open space, landscaping, or screening requirements.
      (3)   Additional yard requirements.
      (4)   Special lighting requirements.
      (5)   Time limitations on normal hours of operations.
      (6)   Additional utility, drainage, or public facility requirements.
      (7)   Additional right-of-way or public access requirements.
      (8)   Requirements to abate or restrict noise, dust, odor or other
elements that may impact surrounding properties.
      (9)   Additional requirements to ensure compatibility with the
comprehensive plan.
      (10)   A bond or guarantee, payable to the Town of Brookneal, in such
amount and for such period of time as the town may designate, to ensure
compliance with all imposed conditions.
      (11)   Conditions for the renewal, extension, expiration, and/or
revocation of the permit.
      (12)   Conditions for periodic review and renewal of the permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.154 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   Each farm winery or vineyard shall be subject to the following, provided a
special use permit has been issued:
   (A)   Special uses permitted. The following uses are permitted at a farm
winery or vineyard:
      (1)   The production and harvesting of fruit and other agricultural
products directly and commonly associated with the manufacturing of wine
including growing, planting and harvesting the agricultural products and the
use of equipment for those activities.
      (2)   The sale, tasting, including barrel tastings, or consumption of
wine within the normal course of business of the farm winery.
      (3)   The direct sale and shipment of wine by common carrier to consumers
in accordance with Title 4.1 of the Virginia Code and the regulations of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
      (4)   The sale and shipment of wine to the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, licensed wholesalers, and out-of-state purchasers in accordance with
Title 4.1 of the Virginia Code, regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, and federal law.
      (5)   The storage, warehousing, and wholesaling of wine in accordance
with Title 4.1 of the Virginia Code, regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board, and federal law.
      (6)   Private personal gatherings of a farm winery or vineyard owner who
resides at the farm winery or vineyard or on property adjacent thereto that is
owned or controlled by the owner, provided that wine is not sold or marketed
and for which no consideration is received by the farm winery or its agents.
   (B)   Agritourism uses or wine sales related uses. The following uses are
permitted at a farm winery or vineyard, provided they are related to
agritourism or wine sales and provided any other regulatory requirements are
followed including but not limited to, permits that may be required by county
health department for food preparation, catering and any other activity or
event involving food service.
      (1)   Exhibits, museums, and historical segments related to wine or to
the farm winery.
      (2)   Farm winery or vineyard events at which not more than 200 persons
are in attendance at any time.
      (3)   Guest winemakers and trade accommodations of invited guests at a
farm winery or vineyard owner's private residence at the farm winery or
vineyard.
      (4)   Hayrides.
      (5)   Kitchen and catering activities related to a use at the farm winery
or vineyard.
      (6)   Picnics, either self-provided or available to be purchased at the
farm winery or vineyard.
      (7)   Providing finger foods, soups and appetizers for visitors.
      (8)   Sale of wine-related items that are incidental to the sale of wine
including, but not limited to the sale of incidental gifts such as cork screws,
wine glasses, and t-shirts.
      (9)   Tours of the farm winery, including the vineyard.
      (10)   Weddings and wedding receptions at which not more than 200 persons
are in attendance at any time.
   (C)   Agritourism uses or wine sales related uses; more than 200 persons at
any time; special use permit required for a single, specific event. The
following uses, at which more than 200 persons will be allowed to attend at any
time, may be permitted at a farm winery or vineyard with a special use permit,
provided they are related to agritourism or wine sales:
      (1)   Farm winery and vineyard events.
      (2)   Weddings and wedding receptions.
      (3)   Other uses not expressly authorized that are agritourism uses or
wine sales related uses which are determined by the Zoning Administrator to be
usual and customary uses at farm wineries and vineyards throughout the
Commonwealth.
   (D)   Ordinances upheld. All other ordinances within the Code of Ordinances
for the Town of Brookneal shall remain in force and enforceable. Any waiver
regarding the application of 1 or more specific ordinances shall be stated in
the special use permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.155 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for special use permits shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator and may be filed by the owner of the property, or with the
written consent of the owner, the contract purchaser of the property or the
agent of the owner. The "Special Use Permit Application" shall be maintained by
town staff and shall be made available to applicants upon request.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may waive any application requirement deemed
unnecessary or not relevant to the review process; such waiver shall be in
writing with justification for waiver documented. Furthermore, the Zoning
Administrator may require any additional information deemed necessary for the
application review process in order to assist the Planning Commission and the
Town Council in evaluating the potential impact of the proposed use.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.156 ACTIONS ON APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   After review by the Zoning Administrator for compliance with
application submittal requirements, the application shall be forwarded to the
Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Commission shall give notice and hold at least 1 public hearing
as required by VA Code § 15.2-2204, as amended. A joint public hearing may be
held with Town Council.
      (2)   After holding its public hearing, the Commission may recommend
approval or disapproval of the application or that conditions be imposed to
ensure compliance with this chapter. In making its decision, the Commission
shall at least consider the criteria specified in §
153.152.
      (3)   Failure of the Commission to provide a recommendation to Town
Council within 100 days following the first Commission meeting on the
application after its referral by the Zoning Administrator shall be considered
a recommendation of approval, unless the application has been withdrawn by the
applicant.
   (B)   After taking its action, the Planning Commission shall forward the
application to the Town Council.
      (1)   The Town Council shall give notice and hold at least 1 public
hearing as required by VA Code § 15.2-2204, as amended. A joint public hearing
may be held with the Planning Commission.
      (2)   After receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission and
holding its public hearing, the Town Council may approve or disapprove the
special use permit application and may impose conditions that the Council deems
reasonable and necessary to ensure the special use will comply with the
requirements of this chapter. In making its decision, the Town Council shall at
least consider the criteria specified in §
153.152.
      (3)   The Town Council shall take action on every special use permit
application within 6 months of application submittal, unless the application is
withdrawn by the applicant prior to the expiration of such period. For the
purpose of this provision, the date of application submission shall be the date
upon which the Zoning Administrator certifies that the application is complete.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.157 MODIFICATIONS OR AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Minor modifications to approved plans or building details of an
approved special use permit may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator when
such modifications do not alter the boundaries of the property; conflict with
specific requirements of this chapter or conditions of the approved permit;
significantly decrease the width or depth of any yard, setback or buffer area;
or significantly alter points of access to the property or the internal
arrangement of site plan elements.
   (B)   Any change to an approved special use permit other than a minor
modification as referenced in division (A) of this section shall require an
amendment subject to the same procedures and requirements as a new application.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.158 EXPIRATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF APPROVED SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   An approved special use permit shall become null and void if no
application for a building permit to construct the authorized improvements has
been submitted within 1 year of the date of approval of the special use permit.
A special use permit for which no building permit is required shall become null
and void if the use is not established within 1 year of the date of approval of
the special use permit. Council may specify a longer period in its approval of
a special use permit.
   (B)   Any use established pursuant to an approved permit shall not be
reestablished if replaced by a different use or if discontinued for a period of
2 years or longer.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.159 RECONSIDERATION.
   Whenever a special use permit application is denied, substantially the same
application shall not be considered again by Town Council within 1 year of the
date of denial.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.160 FEES; CERTIFICATION OF PAYMENT OF REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Every application for special use permit shall be accompanied by a
certified check or other approved consideration in the amount of $500.00,
payable to the Clerk/Treasurer of Brookneal, to assist in offsetting the costs
of advertising and processing such applications.
   (B)   Every application for special use permit shall be accompanied by a
certification from the Town Clerk/Treasurer that all real estate taxes on the
subject parcel or parcels are current.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.161 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be vested with all necessary authority
on behalf of the Town Council to administer and enforce conditions attached to
a special use permit and amendments to the zoning map, including:
      (1)   The ordering in writing of the remedy of any noncompliance with
these conditions;
      (2)   The bringing of legal action to ensure compliance with the
conditions, including injunction, abatement or other appropriate action or
proceedings; and
      (3)   Requiring a guarantee, satisfactory to the Town Council, in an
amount sufficient for and conditioned upon the construction of any physical
improvement required by the conditions, or a contract for the construction of
the improvements and the contractor's guarantee, in like amount and so
conditioned, which guarantees shall be reduced or released by the Town Council
or the Zoning Administrator upon the submission of satisfactory evidence that
construction of the improvements has been completed in whole or in part.
   (B)   Failure to meet all conditions shall constitute cause to deny, to non-
renew, or to terminate the special use permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
Cross Reference:
   Remedies for zoning and land use violations also applicable, see §
153.094
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
    Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $10 and not more
than $100, if the offense be not willful, or not more than $250 if the offense
be willful, and in every case $10 for each day after the first day that the
violation shall continue.
(1997 Code, § S9-9-5) (Am. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Applicability
   
154.03   Compliance and liability
   
154.04   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Definitions
   
154.10   Definitions
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
154.15   Description of districts
   
154.16   Official zoning map
   
154.17   District boundary changes
   
154.18   Interpretation of district boundaries
District Provisions
   
154.25   Permit and application requirements
   
154.26   General standards
   
154.27   Specific standards
   
154.28   Standards for flood-fringe and approximated floodplain
   
154.29   Standards for the special floodplain district
   
154.30   Standards for the floodway district
   
154.31   Standards for subdivision proposals
Variances
   
154.40   Factors to be considered
Existing Structures
   
154.50   Existing structures in floodplain areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these provisions is to prevent: the loss of life and
property, the creation of health and safety hazards, the disruption of commerce
and governmental services, the extraordinary and unnecessary expenditure of
public funds for flood protection and relief, and the impairment of the tax
base by:
   (A)   Regulating uses, activities, and development which, alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, activities, and development,
will cause unacceptable increases in flood heights, velocities, and
frequencies;
   (B)   Restricting or prohibiting certain uses, activities, and development
from locating within districts subject to flooding;
   (C)   Requiring all those uses, activities, and developments that do occur
in flood-prone districts to be protected and/or flood-proofed against flooding
and flood damage; and
   (D)   Protecting individuals from buying land and structures which are
unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.02 APPLICABILITY.
   These provisions shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of Town of
Brookneal and identified as being in the 100-year floodplain by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.03 COMPLIANCE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   No land shall hereafter be developed and no structure shall be
located, relocated, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or structurally
altered except in full compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter
and any other applicable ordinances and regulations which apply to uses within
the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such
as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not
imply that districts outside the floodplain district, or that land uses
permitted within such district will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   Records of actions associated with administering this chapter shall be
kept on file and maintained by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of Town of
Brookneal or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.04 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
districts. However, any underlying ordinance shall remain in full force and
effect to the extent that its provisions are more restrictive than this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The Federal Emergency Management Agency designated
100-year water surface elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The board appointed to review appeals made by
individuals with regard to decisions of the Zoning Administrator in the
interpretation of this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   The collapse or subsistence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in division (1)(a) of this definition.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization in
the watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of Federal Code 44 CFR § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term manufactured home also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial Flood Insurance Rate Map on or after December 31,
1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, new construction means
structures for which start of construction commenced on or after the effective
date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
154.16.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, substantial improvement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of the construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.15 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Basis of districts. The various floodplain districts shall include
special flood hazard areas. The basis for the delineation of these districts
shall be the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps for
the Town of Brookneal prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
Federal Insurance Administration, dated August 28, 2008, as amended.
      (1)   The Floodway District is delineated, for purposes of this chapter,
using the criterion that certain areas within the floodplain must be capable of
carrying the waters of the 100-year flood without increasing the water surface
elevation of that flood more than 1 foot at any point. The areas included in
this District are specifically defined in Table 2 of the above-referenced Flood
Insurance Study and shown on the accompanying Flood Boundary and Floodway Map
or Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      (2)   The Flood-Fringe District shall be that area of the 100-year
floodplain not included in the Floodway District. The basis for the outermost
boundary of the District shall be the 100-year flood elevations contained in
the flood profiles of the above-referenced Flood Insurance Study and as shown
on the accompanying Flood Boundary and Floodway Map or Flood Insurance Rate
Map.
      (3)   The Special Floodplain District shall be those areas identified as
either an AE Zone or A1-30 zone on the maps accompanying the Flood Insurance
Study for which 100-year flood elevations have been provided but for which no
floodway has been delineated.
      (4)   The Approximated Floodplain District shall be those areas
identified as an A or A99 Zone on the maps accompanying the Flood Insurance
Study. In these zones, no detailed flood profiles or elevations are provided,
but the 100-year floodplain boundary has been approximated.
   (B)   Overlay concept.
      (1)   The Floodplain Districts described above shall be overlays to the
existing underlying districts as shown on the Official Zoning Ordinance Map,
and as such, the provisions for the floodplain districts shall serve as a
supplement to the underlying district provisions.
      (2)   If there is any conflict between the provisions or requirements of
the Floodplain Districts and those of any underlying district, the more
restrictive provisions and/or those pertaining to the floodplain districts
shall apply.
      (3)   In the event any provision concerning a Floodplain District is
declared inapplicable as a result of any legislative or administrative actions
or judicial decision, the basic underlying provisions shall remain applicable.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.16 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Area and Floodplain Districts are
established as shown on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map and/or Flood
Insurance Rate Map which is declared to be a part of this chapter and which
shall be kept on file at the town office.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.17 DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   The delineation of any of the Floodplain Districts may be revised by the
Town of Brookneal where natural or man-made changes have occurred and/or where
more detailed studies have been conducted or undertaken by the U. S. Army Corps
of Engineers or other qualified agency, or an individual documents the need for
such change. However, prior to any such change, approval must be obtained from
the Federal Insurance Administration.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.18 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Initial interpretations of the boundaries of the Floodplain Districts shall
be made by the Zoning Officer. Should a dispute arise concerning the boundaries
of any of the Districts, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary
determination. The person questioning or contesting the location of the
District boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his case
to the Board and to submit his own technical evidence if he so desires.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 154.25 PERMIT AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. All uses, activities, and development occurring
within any floodplain district shall be undertaken only upon the issuance of a
zoning permit. Such development shall be undertaken only in strict compliance
with the provisions of the ordinance and with all other applicable codes and
ordinances, as amended, such as the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code
(VA USBC) and the Town of Brookneal Subdivision Regulations. Prior to the
issuance of any such permit, the zoning officer shall require all applications
to include compliance with all applicable state and federal laws. Under no
circumstances shall any use, activity, and/or development adversely affect the
capacity of the channels or floodways of any watercourse, drainage ditch, or
any other drainage facility or system.
   (B)   Site plans and permit applications. All applications for development
within any floodplain district and all building permits issued for the
floodplain shall incorporate the following information:
      (1)   The elevation of the base flood at the site.
      (2)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement).
      (3)   For structures to be flood-proofed (non-residential only), the
elevation to which the structure will be flood-proofed.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.26 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be according to
the VA USBC, and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities, including duct work, shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
   (K)   Prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of any channels or of
any watercourse, stream, etc., within this jurisdiction a permit shall be
obtained from the U. S. Corps of Engineers, the Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality, and the Virginia Marine Resources Commission (a joint
permit application is available from any of these organizations). Furthermore,
notification of the proposal shall be given by the applicant to all affected
adjacent jurisdictions, the Department of Conservation and Recreation (Division
of Dam Safety and Floodplain Management) and the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   (L)   The flood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion of
any watercourse shall be maintained.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.27 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations have been
provided in the Flood Insurance Study or generated according §
154.28(A), the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the base flood
elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential building (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
no lower than the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all A and AE zones
may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated provided that all areas of the
building components below the elevation corresponding to the BFE plus 1 foot
are water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water,
and use structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this division are
satisfied.
   (C)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall:
      (1)   Not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be
used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below the
regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   In the Coastal High Hazard District, follow the standards for
elevation outlined in this chapter.
      (4)   Include, in Zones A, AE, and A1-30, measures to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum design
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of 2 openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least 1 square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (c)   If a building has more than 1 enclosed area, each area must have
openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit.
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than 1
foot above the adjacent grade.
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other opening
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on
individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision or in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has
incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, must meet all the
requirements for new construction, including the elevation and anchoring
requirements in §
154.26(A) and (B), and division (A) of this section.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision in which a manufactured home has
not incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood shall be elevated so
that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to the adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for manufactured homes in division (D)
of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.28 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-FRINGE AND APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided, the Zoning Administractor shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or any other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
154.25 through
154.31. When such base flood elevation data is utilized, the Zoning
Administrator shall obtain:
      (1)   The elevation (in relation to the mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including the basement) of all new and substantially improved
structures; and
      (2)   If the structure has been floodproofed in accordance with the
requirements of §
154.27(B), the elevation in relation to the mean sea level to which the
structure has been floodproofed.
   (B)   When the data is not available from any source as in division (A) of
this section, the lowest floor of the structure shall be elevated to no lower
than the highest adjacent grade.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.29 STANDARDS FOR THE SPECIAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Special Floodplain District:
   (A)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within the areas of special flood hazard, designated as Zones A1-30
and AE on the Flood Rate Insurance Map, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point within the Town of
Brookneal.
   (B)   Development activities in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH, on the Town of
Brookneal Flood Insurance Rate Map which increase the water surface elevation
of the base flood by more than 1 foot may be allowed, provided that the
(developer or applicant) first applies - with the Town of Brookneal endorsement
- for a conditional Flood Insurance Rate Map revision, and receives the
approval of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.30 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOODWAY DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Floodway District:
   (A)   (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments are prohibited unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood.
      (2)   Development activities which increase the water surface elevation
of the base flood may be allowed, provided that the (developer or applicant)
first applies - with the (Town of Brookneal) endorsement - for a conditional
Flood Insurance Rate Map and floodway revision, and receives the approval of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   If division (A) of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
154.25 through
154.31.
   (C)   The placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes) is prohibited,
except in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring, elevation, and
encroachment standards are met.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 154.31 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development proposals (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) that exceed 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is the lesser.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
VARIANCES
§ 154.40 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall satisfy all relevant factors and procedures specified in other sections
of the zoning ordinance and consider the following additional factors:
   (A)   The showing of good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments. No variance shall be granted for any
proposed use, development, or activity within any Floodway District that will
cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation.
   (C)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or downstream
to the injury of others.
   (D)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
   (E)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners.
   (F)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (G)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
   (H)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   (I)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   (J)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
   (K)   The safety of access by ordinary and emergency vehicles to the
property in time of flood.
   (L)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
   (M)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (N)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this chapter.
   (O)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may refer any application and accompanying
documentation pertaining to any request for a variance to any engineer or other
qualified person or agency for technical assistance in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, and the adequacy of the
plans for flood protection and other related matters.
   (P)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the granting of such will not result in:
      (1)   Unacceptable or prohibited increases in flood heights;
      (2)   Additional threats to public safety;
      (3)   Extraordinary public expense; and will not:
         (a)   Create nuisances;
         (b)   Cause fraud or victimization of the public; or
         (c)   Conflict with local laws or ordinances.
   (Q)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the variance will be the minimum required to provide relief
from exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (R)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify the applicant for a variance,
in writing, that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
100-year flood elevation:
      (1)   Increases the risks to life and property; and
      (2)   Will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance.
   (S)   A record shall be maintained of the above notification as well as all
variance actions, including justification for the issuance of the variances.
Any variances that are issued shall be noted in the annual or biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
EXISTING STRUCTURES
§ 154.50 EXISTING STRUCTURES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   A structure or use of a structure or premises which lawfully existed before
the enactment of these provisions, but which is not in conformity with these
provisions, may be continued subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Existing structures in the floodway area shall not be expanded or
enlarged unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the
proposed expansion would not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
   (B)   Any modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement
of any kind to a structure and/or use located in any floodplain areas to an
extent or amount of less than 50% of its market value shall conform to the VA
USBC.
   (C)   The modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement
of any kind to a structure and/or use, regardless of its location in a
floodplain area to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value shall
be undertaken only in full compliance with this chapter and shall require the
entire structure to conform to the VA USBC.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Virginia Code
References to 1997 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO VIRGINIA CODE
VA Code Section Code Section
VA Code Section                 Code Section
1-210                           10.05
1-220                           10.16
2.2-1159 - 2.2-1161             Ch. 150
2.2-3100 - 2.2-3131             Ch. 30
2.2-3700 et seq.                30.15
2.2-3700 - 2.2-3714             Ch. 30
2.2-3711                        30.15
2.2-4300 - 2.2-4377             Ch. 30
3.1-796.101                     90.20,
                                90.25
3.1-796.104:1                   90.62
3.1-796.114                     90.61
3.1-796.115                     90.60
3.1-796.119                     90.40
3.1-796.122                     90.60
3.1-796.122A(iii),B(ii)         90.60
3.1-796.66 et seq.              Ch. 90
3.1-796.66                      90.01
3.1-796.73                      90.60
3.1-796.87                      90.20
3.1-796.88                      90.21
3.1-796.89                      90.27
3.1-796.90                      90.24
3.1-796.91                      90.25
3.1-796.93                      90.02
                                90.01,
                                90.40 -
3.1-796.93:1                    90.43,
                                90.45 -
                                90.47,
                                90.62
3.1-796.94                      90.62
3.1-796.97 et seq.              90.03
3.1-796.97                      90.22
4.1-233                         34.129
9.1-40 - 9.1-405 et seq.        31.001
10.1-506 et seq.                151.05
10.1-560 et seq.                Ch. 151,
                                151.02
10.1-560                        151.05
10.1-563                        151.19
10.1-565                        151.20
10.1-566 et seq.                151.36
10.1-568                        151.38
10.1-569                        151.39,
                                151.99
10.1-603.3                      Ch. 151
10.1-604 et seq.                151.05
10.1-1100 et seq.               151.05
10.1-1163(B)                    151.05
10.1-1321                       Ch. 93
10.1-1412                       Ch. 51
15.1-7.4                        33.03
15.1-14(9)                      95.01
15.1-15(1)                      Ch. 150
15.1-15(4)                      Ch. 92
15.1-29                         Ch. 150
15.1-827                        31.018
Title 15.2                      30.45
15.2-11-4                       Ch. 34
15.2-900                        Ch. 93
                                Ch. 51,
15.2-901                        51.31,
                                Ch. 93
15.2-903                        Ch. 94,
                                94.02
15.2-905                        Ch. 70
15.2-906                        Ch. 150,
                                150.05
15.2-922                        Ch. 92
15.2-923                        Ch. 51
15.2-927                        Ch. 51
15.2-929                        Ch. 51
15.2-931                        Ch. 51
15.2-935                        Ch. 51
15.2-942                        Ch. 35
15.2-943                        Ch. 35
15.2-945                        Ch. 35
15.2-946                        Ch. 35
15.2-953                        Ch. 35
15.2-973                        70.25
15.2-1111                       Ch. 91
15.2-1113                       Ch. 92
15.2-1114                       Ch. 94
15.2-1115                       Ch. 93,
                                95.06
15.2-1117                       Ch. 150
15.2-1118                       Ch. 92
15.2-1121                       Ch. 91
15.2-1125                       34.085
15.2-1409                       30.61
15.2-1412                       Ch. 30
15.2-1414.7                     31.015
15.2-1427                       Ch. 30
15.2-1429                       10.99
15.2-1432                       10.99
15.2-1433                       10.19
15.2-1520                       31.047
15.2-1522                       Ch. 30
15.2-1638 et seq.               Ch. 150
15.2-1701 et seq.               Ch. 32
15.2-1704                       32.01
15.2-1716.2                     93.50
15.2-1719                       Ch. 32
15.2-1721                       Ch. 32
15.2-2000 et seq.               Ch. 95
15.2-2001                       Ch. 95
15.2-2010                       95.03
                                Ch. 93,
                                93.15,
15.2-2013                       95.02,
                                95.04,
                                95.05
15.2-2024                       Ch. 150
15.2-2026                       Ch. 70,
                                Ch. 95
15.2-2028                       Ch. 70
15.2-2029                       Ch. 92
15.2-2100 et seq.               34.085
15.2-2109                       Ch. 93
15.2-2114                       Ch. 151
15.2-2119                       50.05
15.2-2119(E)                    50.05
15.2-2119(G)                    50.05
15.2-2200 et seq.               Ch. 153
                                30.17,
                                152.004,
15.2-2204                       153.095,
                                153.111,
                                153.115,
                                153.156
15.2-2205                       Ch. 153
15.2-2206                       Ch. 153
15.2-2210 et seq.               Ch. 153
15.2-2233 et seq.               Ch. 95
15.2-2240 et seq.               Ch. 152,
                                152.016
15.2-2240 et seq.               152.053
15.2-2241 - 15.2-2246           152.050
15.2-2252                       152.004
15.2-2253                       152.004
15.2-2258 et seq.               152.135
15.2-2280 - 15.2-2316           153.001
15.2-2282                       Ch. 153
15.2-2288.3                     153.005
15.2-2309                       153.111
15.2-2315                       Ch. 153
15.2-5101                       50.05
15.3-2124                       Ch. 93
16.1-69.48                      10.22
16.1-123.1                      10.21
18.2-11                         10.99,
                                70.23
18.2-125                        91.02
18.2-248                        93.50
18.2-248.03                     93.50
18.2-266                        70.01
18.2-266 et seq.                70.01
18.2-266.1 et seq.              70.01
18.2-410                        Ch. 32
19.2-260 et seq.                90.60
19.2-340                        10.22
19.2-354(A)                     10.23
19.2-358                        10.23
27-6.1 et seq.                  Ch. 92
27-95 et seq.                   Ch. 92,
                                92.15
27-97                           Ch. 92
27.95 et seq.                   92.15
33.1-224 et seq.                Ch. 95
33.1-348                        70.17
36-70 et seq.                   Ch. 150
36-97 et seq.                   Ch. 150
36-99.11                        Ch. 70
42.1-76 et seq.                 Ch. 30,
                                Ch. 152
46-6(a)                         96.02
46-6(b)(c)                      96.02
Title 46.2                      70.01
46.2-100                        70.19
46.2-218                        70.04
46.2-221.4                      70.15
46.2-649.1:1                    70.19
46.2-656                        70.15
46.2-657                        70.15
46.2-662                        70.15
46.2-662 et seq.                70.25
46.2-694                        70.18,
                                70.19
46.2-694(A)(1) - (A)(13)        70.17
46.2-694.1                      70.18
46.2-730                        70.19
46.2-730(A)                     70.19
46.2-735                        70.19
46.2-736                        70.19
46.2-739                        70.19
46.2-744                        70.19
46.2-745                        70.19
46.2-746                        70.19
46.2-700                        70.18
46.2-701                        70.18
46.2-750                        70.19
46.2-750(A)                     70.19
46.2-750.1                      70.19
46.2-752                        70.17,
                                70.18
46.2-752(A)                     70.19,
                                70.22
46.2-752(A)(4), (A)(5)          70.19
46.2-752(A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(11) 70.16
46.2-752(A)(12)                 70.19
46.2-752(A), (I)                70.15
46.2-752(B)                     70.20
46.2-752(C), (A)(12)            70.21
46.2-752(H)                     70.19
46.2-752(J)                     70.23
46.2-755(A)(1) - (A)(6)         70.19
46.2-755(B)                     70.19
                                70.15,
46.2-755(C)                     70.17,
                                70.19
46.2-874                        71.01
46.2-875                        71.01
46.2-893                        72.06
46.2-929                        70.30
46.2-935                        70.31
46.2-936                        93.40
46.2-1200 et seq.               72.08
46.2-1212                       Ch. 70,
                                71.31
46.2-1213                       72.08,
                                72.09
46.2-1216                       Ch. 70
46.2-1217                       72.09
46.2-1220                       Ch. 70,
                                Ch. 72
46.2-1239                       72.01
46.2-1300 et seq.               Ch. 70,
                                70.02
46.2-1313                       10.16,
                                70.01
46.2-1554                       70.25
46.2-1555                       70.25
49-1                            Ch. 30
51.5-98                         34.067
53.1-73                         32.02
53.1-95.2 et seq.               70.19
53.1-128 et seq.                32.03
54.1-1117                       Ch. 150
54.1-4002                       Ch. 94
55-336 et seq.                  Ch. 152
56-257 et seq.                  Ch. 95
56-412.1                        71.30,
                                71.99
56-594                          34.045
57-22 et seq.                   Ch. 91
57-25                           Ch. 91
57-26                           Ch. 91
57-36 et seq.                   Ch. 91
58.1-1 et seq.                  Ch. 34
58.1-6 et seq.                  Ch. 34
58.1-15                         34.033
58.1-520 et seq.                Ch. 34,
                                50.05
58.1-605 et seq.                Ch. 34
58.1-1200 et seq.               34.031
58.1-1201                       34.030
58.1-1204                       34.031
58.1-1205                       34.030
58.1-1207                       34.032
58.1-1208 et seq.               Ch. 34
58.1-1209                       34.031
58.1-1211                       34.031,
                                34.032
58.1-1212                       34.032
58.1-1216                       34.033
58.1-2401                       70.15,
                                70.19
58.1-2402(A)(4)                 70.15,
                                70.19
58.1-2901                       34.047
58.1-3000 et seq.               Ch. 34
58.1-3210 et seq.               34.015
58.1-3504(A)(8)                 70.19
58.1-3606 - 58.1-3608           34.050
58.1-3516                       70.21
58.1-3516.2                     70.21
58.1-3700 et seq.               34.085
58.1-3700                       34.087
58.1-3701                       34.085
58.1-3706                       34.125
58.1-3710                       34.102,
                                34.105
58.1-3714                       34.120
58.1-3716                       34.121
58.1-3717 et seq.               34.123
58.1-3720 et seq.               34.130
58.1-3728                       34.131
58.1-3731                       34.126,
                                34.127
58.1-3812                       34.046
58.1-3814, paragraphs F.,G.     34.047
58.1-3830                       Ch. 34
58.1-3840                       34.066
58.1-3900 et seq.               Ch. 34
58.1-3916                       34.090
59.1-117                        Ch. 94
59.1-118                        Ch. 94
59.1-121                        Ch. 94
59.1-131 et seq.                Ch. 94
59.1-137 et seq.                Ch. 92
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1997 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1-3               10.17
1-6               10.18
1-7               10.18
1-10              10.19
1-12              10.20
1-13              10.21
1-14              10.22
1-15              10.22
1-16              10.23
2-31              30.04
2-32              30.05
2-33              30.06
2-34              30.07
2-51              30.45
2-71              30.46
2-72              30.47
2-73              30.48
2-74              30.01
2-75              30.02
2-76              30.03
2-77              31.018
2-78              31.019
2-79              31.031
2-80              31.047
2-81              31.085
2-101             30.15
2-102             30.16
2-103             30.17
2-104             30.18
2-105             30.19
2-106             30.20
2-107             30.21
2-126             30.35
2-127             30.36
2-128             30.37
2-146             30.48
2-147             30.61
2-148             30.62
2-149             30.63
2-150             30.64
2-151             30.65
2-152             30.66
2-153             30.67
2-154             30.68
2-155             30.69
2-156             30.70
2-181             31.001
2-201             31.015
2-202             31.016
2-203             31.017
2-221             31.030
2-222             31.032
2-223             31.033
2-224             31.034
2-225             31.035
2-226             31.036
2-246             31.045
2-247             31.046
2-266             31.060
2-267             31.061
2-276             31.075
2-277             31.076
2-286             33.01
2-287             33.02
14-1              150.01
14-2              150.02
14-4              150.03
14-5              150.04
14-6              150.05
16-51             96.01
16-52             96.02
16-53             96.03
16-54             96.04
16-55             96.05
16-56             96.06
16-57             96.07
16-58             96.08
18-31             34.085
18-32             34.086
18-34             34.087
18-35             34.088
18-36             34.089
18-37             34.090
18-38             34.091
18-39             34.092
18-40             34.093
18-41             34.094
18-42             34.095
18-43             34.096
18-44             34.097
18-45             34.098
18-46             34.099
18-47             34.100
18-48             34.101
18-49             34.102
18-50             34.103
18-51             34.104
18-52             34.105
18-53             34.106
18-71             34.120
18-72             34.121
18-73             34.122
18-74             34.123
18-75             34.124
18-76             34.125
18-77             34.126
18-78             34.127
18-79             34.128
18-80             34.129
18-81             34.130
18-82             34.131
18-83             34.132
18-84             34.133
22-1              91.01
22-2              91.02
22-31             91.15
22-32             91.16
22-33             91.17
22-34             91.18
22-35             91.19
22-36             91.20
22-37             91.21
22-38             91.22
26-31             35.01
26-32             35.02
26-33             35.03
26-34             35.04
26-35             35.05
26-36             35.06
26-37             35.07
26-38             35.08
30-31             93.01
30-32             93.02
30-33             93.02
30-33             93.03
30-51             93.15
30-52             93.99
30-53             93.16
30-54             93.17
30-55             93.18
30-56             93.19
30-57             93.20
30-58             93.21
30-59             93.22
30-71             151.01
30-72             151.02
30-73             151.05
30-74             151.03
30-75             151.04
30-76             151.99
30-77             151.15
30-78             151.16
30-79             151.17
30-80             151.18
30-81             151.19
30-82             151.20
30-83             151.21
30-84             151.35
30-85             151.36
30-86             151.37
30-87             151.38
30-88             151.39
34-1              92.01
34-2              92.02
34-3              92.03
34-4              92.04
34-5              92.05
34-36             92.15
34-37             92.16
34-38             92.17
34-39             92.99
34-40             92.18
34-41             92.19
38-1              51.01
38-31             51.01
38-32             51.16
38-33             51.17
38-34             51.18
38-35             51.19
38-36             51.20
38-56             51.30
38-57             51.31
42-1              32.01
42-2              32.02
42-3              32.03
46-34             130.02
46-35             130.03
46-36             130.04
50-31             94.01
50-32             94.99
50-33             94.02
50-34             94.03
50-35             94.04
54-1              95.01
54-2              95.02
54-3              95.03
54-4              95.04
54-5              95.05
54-6              95.06
58-1              152.001
58-2              152.002
58-3              152.006
58-4              152.003
58-5              152.004
58-7              152.999
58-8              152.005
58-31             152.015
58-32             152.016
58-33             152.017
58-34             152.018
58-56             152.050
58-57             152.051
58-58             152.052
58-59             152.053
58-60             152.054
58-61             152.055
58-62             152.056
58-63             152.057
58-86             152.030
58-87             152.031
58-88             152.032
58-89             152.033
58-90             152.034
58-91             152.035
58-92             152.036
58-93             152.037
58-94             152.038
58-111            152.070
58-112            152.071
58-113            152.072
58-114            152.073
58-115            152.074
58-116            152.075
58-136            152.085
58-137            152.086
58-138            152.087
58-139            152.088
58-161            152.100
58-162            152.101
58-163            152.102
58-164            152.103
58-165            152.104
58-166            152.105
58-167            152.106
58-168            152.107
58-169            152.108
58-170            152.109
58-171            152.110
58-191            152.120
58-192            152.121
58-216            152.039
58-236            152.135
58-237            152.136
58-238            152.137
58-239            152.138
58-240            152.139
58-241            152.140
58-242            152.141
58-243            152.142
58-266            152.155
58-281            152.166
58-282            152.176
58-283            152.177
58-301            152.165
58-302            152.166
58-303            Ch. 152, App. A
58-304            Ch. 152, App. B
58-305            Ch. 152, App. C
62-30             34.001
62-31             34.002
62-32             34.003
62-33             34.004
62-34             34.005
62-56             34.015
62-57             34.016
62-59             34.017
62-60             34.018
62-61             34.019
62-86             34.030
62-87             34.031
62-88             34.032
62-89             34.033
62-90             34.045,
                  34.046
62-92             34.047
62-93             34.048
62-94             34.049
62-95             34.050
62-96             34.051
62-110            34.065
62-111            34.066
62-112            34.067
62-113            34.068
62-114            34.069
62-115            34.070
62-116            34.071
62-117            34.072
62-118            34.073
62-119            34.074
66-1              70.01
66-2              70.02
66-3              70.03
66-4              70.04
66-5              70.05
66-6              71.15
66-7              71.16
66-8              71.17
66-9              71.03
66-10             71.99
66-11             71.30,
                  71.99
66-12             71.31
66-45             70.24
66-46             70.25
66-71             71.01,
                  71.99
66-72             71.02
66-101            72.01,
                  72.99
66-102            72.02
66-103            72.03
66-104            72.04
66-105            72.05
66-106            72.06
66-108            72.07
66-109            72.08
66-110            72.09
66-111            72.10
66-112            72.99
66-136            70.30
66-137            70.31
70-31             50.01
70-32             50.02
70-33             50.03
70-34             50.04
70-36             50.06
70-37             50.07
70-38             50.08
70-39             50.09
70-61             52.01
70-62             52.02
70-63             52.03
70-64             52.04
70-65             52.05
70-66             52.06
70-67             52.07
70-91             53.01
70-92             53.02
70-93             53.03
70-94             53.04
70-95             53.05
70-96             53.06
70-97             53.07
70-98             53.08
70-99             53.09
74-31             93.35
74-32             93.36
S9-1-1            153.001
S9-1-2            153.002
S9-2              153.005
S9-3-1            153.015
S9-3-2            153.016
S9-4              153.017
S9-5              153.030
S9-6-1            153.031
S9-6-2            153.032
S9-6-3            153.033
S9-7-1            153.050
S9-7-2            153.051
S9-7-3            153.052
S9-7-4            153.053
S9-7-5            153.054
S9-7-6            153.055
S9-7-7            153.056
S9-7-8            153.057
S9-8-1            153.070
S9-8-2            153.071
S9-8-3            153.072
S9-8-4            153.073
S9-8-5            153.074
S9-8-6            153.075
S9-8-7            153.076
S9-8-8            153.077
S9-9-1            153.090
S9-9-2            153.091
S9-9-3            153.092
S9-9-4            153.093
S9-9-5            153.999
S9-9-6            153.094
S9-10-1           153.110
S9-10-2           153.111
S9-10-3           153.112
S9-10-4           153.113
S9-10-5           153.114
S9-10-6           153.115
S9-11-1           153.095
S9-12-1           153.003
S9-12-3           153.004
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed              Description
–      2-21-1977, § 1-1        152.001,
                                  152.002
–      2-21-1977, § 2          152.006
–      2-21-1977, § 3-1        152.015
–      2-21-1977, § 3-2        152.016
–      2-21-1977, § 3-3        152.017
–      2-21-1977, § 3-4        152.018
–      2-21-1977, § 4-1-1      152.050
–      2-21-1977, § 4-2        152.051
–      2-21-1977, § 4-3        152.052
–      2-21-1977, § 4-4        152.053
–      2-21-1977, § 4-5        152.054
–      2-21-1977, § 4-6        152.055
–      2-21-1977, § 4-7        152.056
–      2-21-1977, § 4-8        152.057
–      2-21-1977, § 5-1        152.030
–      2-21-1977, § 5-2        152.031
–      2-21-1977, § 5-3        152.032
–      2-21-1977, § 5-4        152.033
–      2-21-1977, § 5-5        152.034
–      2-21-1977, § 5-6        152.035
–      2-21-1977, § 5-7        152.036
–      2-21-1977, § 5-8        152.037
–      2-21-1977, § 5-9        152.038
–      2-21-1977, § 5-10       152.070
–      2-21-1977, § 5-11       152.071
–      2-21-1977, § 5-12       152.072
–      2-21-1977, § 5-13       152.073
–      2-21-1977, § 5-14       152.074
–      2-21-1977, § 5-15       152.075
–      2-21-1977, § 5-16       152.085
–      2-21-1977, § 5-17       152.086
–      2-21-1977, § 5-18       152.087
–      2-21-1977, § 5-19       152.088
–      2-21-1977, § 5-20       152.100
–      2-21-1977, § 5-21       152.101
–      2-21-1977, § 5-22       152.102
–      2-21-1977, § 5-23       152.103
–      2-21-1977, § 5-24       152.104
–      2-21-1977, § 5-25       152.105
–      2-21-1977, § 5-26       152.106
–      2-21-1977, § 5-27       152.107
–      2-21-1977, § 5-28       152.108
–      2-21-1977, § 5-29       152.109
–      2-21-1977, § 5-30       152.110
–      2-21-1977, § 5-31       152.120
–      2-21-1977, §§ 5-32, 5-3152.121
–      2-21-1977, § 5-34       152.039
–      2-21-1977, § 6-1        152.135
–      2-21-1977, § 6-2        152.136
–      2-21-1977, § 6-3        152.137
–      2-21-1977, § 6-4        152.138
–      2-21-1977, § 6-5        152.139
–      2-21-1977, § 6-6        152.140
–      2-21-1977, § 6-7        152.141
–      2-21-1977, § 6-8        152.142
–      2-21-1977, § 7-1        152.155
–      2-21-1977, § 7A-1       152.166
–      2-21-1977, § 7A-2       152.177
–      2-21-1977, § 7A-3       152.176
–      2-21-1977, § 8-1        152.003
–      2-21-1977, § 8-2        152.999
–      2-21-1977, § 8-5        152.004
–      2-21-1977, § 8-6        152.005
–      2-21-1977, Appx. A       152.165,
                                  152.166, Ch. 152, Apps. A - C
                                  34.085 -
–      5-31-1983                34.106,
                                  34.120 -
                                  34.133
–      12-8-1987                70.01
                                  52.01 -
–      3-14-1989                52.07,
                                  53.01 -
                                  53.09
–      8-17-1993                50.01 -
                                  50.09
–      5-13-1997                93.02
–      8-12-1997                91.16
–      9-9-1997                 96.01 -
                                  96.08
–      1-13-1998                34.045 -
                                  34.051
–      4-13-1999                34.045 -
                                  34.051
–      9-14-1999                93.02
                                  72.01,
–      10-12-1999               72.99,
                                  130.02 -
                                  130.04
–      10-10-2000               34.045 -
                                  34.051
–      6-8-2004                 34.065 -
                                  34.074
–      9-12-2006                70.15 -
                                  70.23
–      11-14-2006               Charter § 19
                                  154.01 -
                                  154.04,
                                  154.10,
                                  154.15 -
–      8-12-2008                154.18,
                                  154.25 -
                                  154.31,
                                  154.40,
                                  154.50
–      4-10-2012                91.16
–      10-1-2018                50.01 -
                                  50.09
–      - -                      93.40
–      - -                      93.50
                                  34.089,
–      3-10-2020                34.090,
                                  34.094,
                                  34.096
                                  153.001 -
                                  153.005,
                                  153.015 -
                                  153.017,
                                  153.030 -
                                  153.033,
                                  153.050 -
                                  153.057,
–      - -                      153.070 -
                                  153.077,
                                  153.090 -
                                  153.095,
                                  153.110 -
                                  153.115,
                                  153.150 -
                                  153.161,
                                  153.999
                                  52.15 -
–      - -                      52.20,
                                  52.99
–      1-12-2021                33.03
–      5- -2022                 34.065 -
                                  34.074
–      5- -2022                 34.140 -
                                  34.151
                                 
 
 
