INDEPENDENCE, VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 4-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
CHAPTER 1
INCORPORATION AND BOUNDARIES
   §
1.1.   Incorporation.
   §
1.2.   Boundaries.
CHAPTER 2
POWERS
   §
2.1.   General grant of powers.
   §
2.2.   Adoption of powers granted by the Code of Virginia.
CHAPTER 3
MAYOR AND COUNCIL
   §
3.1.   Election, qualification and term of office for Council.
   §
3.2.   Vacancies on Council.
   §
3.3.   Council.
   §
3.4.   Election, qualification and term of office for Mayor.
   §
3.5.   Vacancies in office of Mayor.
   §
3.6.   Vice Mayor.
   §
3.7.   Meetings of Council.
   §
3.8.   Compensation.
CHAPTER 4
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
   §
4.1.   Appointments.
CHAPTER 5
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
   §
5.1.   Fiscal year.
ARTICLE 6
MISCELLANEOUS
   §
6.1.   Ordinance continued in force.
   §
6.2.   Severability of provision.
[HISTORY: Adopted by the General Assembly of Virginia 1-13-1993. Amendments
noted where applicable.]
CHAPTER 1
INCORPORATION AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.1. Incorporation.
   The inhabitants of the territory comprised within the present limits of the
Town of Independence, as such limits are now or may hereafter be altered and
established by law, shall constitute and continue to be a body politic and
corporate, to be known and designated as the Town of Independence (the “town”),
and as such shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be
impleaded, contract and be contracted with, and may have a corporate seal which
it may alter, renew or amend at its pleasure by proper ordinance.
§ 1.2. Boundaries.
   The boundaries of the town until altered, are those established in § 2 of
Chapter 225 of the Acts of Assembly of 1934, and the amendment of such section
contained in Chapter 92, Acts of Assembly of 1952, and the Circuit Court of
Grayson County by Order dated July 29, 1977, in Chancery Case No. 2392.
CHAPTER 2
POWERS
§ 2.1. General grant of powers.
   The town shall have and may exercise all powers which are now or hereafter
may be conferred upon or delegated to towns under the Constitution and laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia, as fully and completely as though such powers
were specifically enumerated herein, and no enumeration of particular powers in
this Charter shall be held to be exclusive, and the town shall have, exercise
and enjoy all rights, immunities, powers and privileges and be subject to all
the duties and obligations now appertaining to and incumbent on the town as a
municipal corporation.
§ 2.2. Adoption of powers granted by the Code of Virginia.
   The powers granted in §
2.1 of this Charter include specifically, but are not limited to, all powers
set forth in the Code of Virginia, 1950, §§ 15.2-100 et seq., including
subsequent amendments thereof.
CHAPTER 3
MAYOR AND COUNCIL
§ 3.1. Election, qualification and term of office for Council. [Amended 12-12-
2021]
   The town shall be governed by a Town Council composed of six (6) Council
members, all of whom shall be qualified voters in the town and shall be elected
by the qualified voters of the town in the manner provided by law from the town
at large. The Council in office at the time of the adoption of this Charter
shall continue in office until the expiration of the terms for which they were
elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. At the next
general election for the election of members to the Town Council held on the
first Tuesday in May 1994, the three (3) candidates receiving the greatest
number of votes shall be elected for four-year terms, and the three (3)
candidates receiving the next greatest number of votes shall be elected for
two-year terms. Elections shall be held on the first Tuesday in November every
two (2) years thereafter, and the Council members shall thereafter be elected
for terms of four (4) years or until their successors are elected and
qualified. The term of each person elected under this section shall begin on
January 1 next following their election.
§ 3.2. Vacancies on Council.
   Vacancies on the Council shall be filled for the unexpired term from among
the qualified voters of the town by a majority vote of the remaining members of
the Council.
§ 3.3. Council.
   The Council shall be a continuing body, and no measure pending before such
body nor any contract or obligation incurred shall abate or be discontinued
because of the expiration of the term of office or removal of any Council
member.
§ 3.4. Election, qualification and term of office for Mayor. [Amended 12-12-
2021]
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, who shall be a
qualified voter in the town and shall be elected by the qualified voters of the
town in the manner provided by law from the town at large. The Mayor in office
at the time of the adoption of this Charter shall continue in office until the
expiration of the term for which he was elected or until his successor is
elected and qualified.
An election for Mayor shall be held on the first Tuesday in May 1994. Elections
for Mayor shall be held on the first Tuesday in November every four (4) years
thereafter. The Mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years or until his
successor is elected and qualified. The term of a person elected under this
section shall begin on January 1 next following his election.
§ 3.5. Vacancies in office of Mayor.
   A vacancy in the office of the Mayor shall be filled for the unexpired term
from among the qualified voters of the town by a majority vote of the members
of the Council. The Mayor shall have and exercise all of the privileges and
authority conferred by the general law not inconsistent with the Charter. He
shall preside over the meetings of the Town Council and shall have the right to
speak therein, without the power to vote except in circumstances when the vote
of the Council is tied or deadlocked, in which case the Mayor may cast a vote.
He shall be the head of the town government for all its ceremonial purposes and
shall perform such other duties consistent with his office as may be imposed by
the Town Council. He shall see that the duties of the various town officers are
faithfully performed and shall authenticate his signature on such documents or
instruments as the Council, this Charter or the laws of the commonwealth shall
require.
§ 3.6. Vice Mayor.
   The Town Council shall, by a majority of all its members, elect a Vice Mayor
from its membership at its first meeting to serve for a term of two (2) years.
In the absence of or during the disability of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall
possess the powers and discharge the duties of the Mayor when serving as Mayor.
Vacancies hereunder shall be filed for the unexpired term by Council from its
membership. The Vice Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.
§ 3.7. Meetings of Council.
   The Council shall fix the time of its regular meetings, which shall be at
least once each month, and, except as herein provided, the Council shall follow
Robert’s Rules of Order, latest edition, for rules of procedure necessary for
the orderly conduct of its business except where inconsistent with the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia. Minutes shall be kept of its official
proceedings, and its meetings shall be open to the public unless an executive
session is called according to law. Special meetings may be called at any time
by the Mayor or by four (4) members of the Council, provided that the members
of Council are given reasonable notice of such meetings. No business shall be
transacted at the special meeting except that for which it shall be called. If
the Mayor and all the members of the Council are present, this provision
requiring prior notice for special meetings is waived.
§ 3.8. Compensation.
   Compensation for the Mayor and Council members shall be set by the Council
subject to any limitations placed thereon by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Virginia. Increases in the salaries of the Mayor and the Council members shall
not be effective until July 1 following the local election after the Council
approves such increases.
CHAPTER 4
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
§ 4.1. Appointments.
   The Town Council shall appoint the following officers:
   A.   Town Treasurer. A Town Treasurer, whose duties shall be to receive all
money belonging to the town, to keep correct accounts of all receipts from all
sources and of all expenditures, to be responsible for the collection of all
license fees, taxes, levies and charges due to the town, to disburse the funds
of the town as the Council may direct, and other such duties as prescribed by
the Council.
   B.   Town Clerk. A Town Clerk whose duties shall be to record the minutes of
the Town Council meetings and such other duties as Council may designate.
   C.   Town Attorney. A Town Attorney who shall be an attorney at law licensed
under the laws of the commonwealth. The Town Attorney shall receive such
compensation as provided by the Council and shall have such duties as
prescribed by Council.
   D.   Other officers. The Council may appoint other officers that the Council
deems necessary and proper, designate their duties and establish their
compensation and benefits.
   E.   General. All officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and be
compensated as provided by Council, including benefits. The Council may fill
any vacancy in any office appointed by it.
CHAPTER 5
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.1. Fiscal year. [Amended 7-7-1998]
   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on
June 30 of the year following.
ARTICLE 6
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 6.1. Ordinance continued in force.
   All ordinances now in force in the town, not inconsistent with the Charter,
shall be and remain in force until amended or repealed by Council.
§ 6.2. Severability of provision.
   If any clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this Charter shall for any
reason be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of the Charter
but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph or
part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall
have been rendered.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.13   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.16   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Independence
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD. The County Board of Supervisors.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Independence Town Council.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The Independence Town Council.
      LOCALITY. The area within the boundaries of Independence as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term LOCALITY when used in this code may also be used to refer
to the Independence Town Council, and its authorized representatives.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this local government unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Virginia.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Independence, Virginia.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect upon adoption, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.13 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
   (B)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.16 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the legislative body that, when adopting this
code of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and
statutes adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to provisions of this code that impose
criminal or traffic penalties.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 1-220
   Traffic laws; authority to adopt by reference, see VA Code § 46.2-1313
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the locality for which another penalty is not specifically
provided, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and
punished as set forth in division (B)(1) below.
   (B)   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the locality or any
rule or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the locality, under
authority duly vested in such officer or agency, it is provided that a
violation of any provision thereof shall constitute a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4
misdemeanor, such violation shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 misdemeanor. By a fine of not more than $2,500, and by
confinement in jail for not more than 12 months, either or both;
      (2)   Class 2 misdemeanor. By a fine of not more than $1,000, and by
confinement in jail for not more than six months, either or both;
      (3)   Class 3 misdemeanor. By a fine of not more than $500; and
      (4)   Class 4 misdemeanor. By a fine of not more than $250.
   (C)   The imposition of any penalty, pursuant to this or any other provision
of this code, shall not prohibit the locality from seeking equitable relief in
any court of competent jurisdiction, to enjoin the violation of any provision
of this code or other ordinance of the locality.
   (D)   Each day any violation of this code or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation referred to in this code shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense, except where otherwise provided.
   (E)   The penalties imposed under this section shall not exceed those
penalties prescribed by state law for like offenses.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for misdemeanors, see VA Code § 18.2-11
   Penalties for violation of ordinances, see VA Code §§ 15.2-1429, 15.2-1432
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
30.01   Court; fee imposed
   
30.02   Use of court fees collected
   
30.03   Elections
   
30.04   Seal
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Duties of presiding officer; rules of order
   
30.17   Appointment of special committees; questions of order
   
30.18   Voting
   
30.19   Order of business
   
30.20   Motions to be seconded; withdrawal of motions
   
30.21   Addressing Chair
   
30.22   Interrupting speakers
   
30.23   Talking while member is speaking
   
30.24   Who may speak
Committees
   
30.35   Appointment of standing committees
   
30.36   Duties of Water Committee
   
30.37   Duties of Sewer Committee
   
30.38   Duties of Solid Waste Committee
   
30.39   Duties of Committee on Streets and Sidewalks
   
30.40   Personnel Committee
   
30.41   Duties of Traffic and Law Enforcement and Ordinance Committee
   
30.42   Duties of Beautification Committee
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COURT; FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   The town hereby imposes a fee for the use of the County Courthouse to
help defray the cost of maintenance of the facility in accordance with VA Code
§ 14.1-133.2, as amended.
   (B)   There shall be a fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
imposed on all traffic and/or criminal cases in the General District Court and/
or the Circuit Court. Said fees shall be collected by the Clerk of the
appropriate six courts. This fee shall be in addition to any other fee or tax
already imposed. The fees collected shall be remitted on a timely basis to the
Treasurer of the county.
(1996 Code, § 14-1)
§ 30.02 USE OF COURT FEES COLLECTED.
   Said fees shall be used for the construction, renovation and/or maintenance
of the Courthouse, jail or court-related facilities operated by the county for
the benefit of the town.
(1996 Code, § 14-2)
§ 30.03 ELECTIONS.
   The voting place of the town is changed from the Town Hall to the Fire
Department Building.
(1996 Code, § 19-1)
§ 30.04 SEAL.
   A corporate seal of the town shall be adopted in the following form: two
concentric circles of a diameter of two inches, between their circumference the
name, “Town of Independence, Virginia,” and within the inner circle the words,
“Corporate Seal, 1934,” a drawing of the seal appears below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2843f0820714eb363737a32179cd9d5275c020c2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.jpg]
 
(1996 Code, § 5-11)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, without further notice, hold regular meetings
on the second Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. eastern standard time in the
Town Volunteer Fire Department, and that a majority of Council members present
or in office shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   The Town Council shall deliver, after reasonable notice, in person, to
each of the members of the Council, said notice setting forth the time, day,
place and purpose of such meeting, hold special meetings upon the call in
writing of the Mayor or any four Council members, and a majority of Council
members present or in office shall constitute a quorum.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. passed 1-8-2019)
§ 30.16 DUTIES OF PRESIDING OFFICER; RULES OF ORDER.
   The Mayor or Acting Mayor, at the hour appointed for the Council to meet,
shall take the Chair, call the meeting to order and preserve proper order and
decorum. Except where otherwise provided by ordinances, Robert’s Rules of Order
shall pertain in all meetings of the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-2)
§ 30.17 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES; QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
   Special committees shall be appointed by Council in accordance with the
current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order. Special committees may be composed
of Council members and/or qualified voters of the town. The Mayor shall decide
all questions of order, but any questions of order decided by the Chair may be
appealed to the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-3)
§ 30.18 VOTING.
   Every member, when present, when a question is put, shall vote, unless
excused by the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-4)
§ 30.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Reading the minutes of the last meeting;
      (2)   The report of committees;
      (3)   Unfinished business; and
      (4)   New business.
   (B)   If the Council shall have directed any matter to be the business of
the meeting, the Mayor or Acting Mayor shall call up the same immediately after
the reading of the minutes, and it shall have priority over all other business.
   (C)   The order of business may be suspended or changed by vote of the
Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-5)
§ 30.20 MOTIONS TO BE SECONDED; WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   No motion shall be entertained by the presiding officer until it shall have
been seconded, nor shall any motion after being seconded be withdrawn, if any
member shall object to such withdrawal.
(1996 Code, § 5-6)
§ 30.21 ADDRESSING CHAIR.
   No member of the Council shall address the Chair without first being
recognized by the Chair.
(1996 Code, § 5-7)
§ 30.22 INTERRUPTING SPEAKERS.
   No member of the Council shall interrupt any member when speaking on any
subject, except to rise to a point of order.
(1996 Code, § 5-8)
§ 30.23 TALKING WHILE MEMBER IS SPEAKING.
   Members of the Council shall not hold a conversation while any matter is
being discussed by any member of the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-9)
§ 30.24 WHO MAY SPEAK.
   No person other than a member of the Council shall have the right to discuss
any matter in a meeting of the Council unless by consent of a majority of the
Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-10)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.35 APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, at the regular meeting in July of each year, appoint
a Chairperson from the Council for each of the town standing committees.
   (B)   Each committee, unless otherwise stated, shall be composed of a
Chairperson and two members of Council chosen by the Council.
   (C)   The Mayor, Town Attorney and Town Manager may serve as ex officio
members, as well as any other town staff member or consultant.
   (D)   The standing committees are as listed below.
(1996 Code, § 5-12)
§ 30.36 DUTIES OF WATER COMMITTEE.
   (A)   All matters relating to policy for the water system of the town shall
be referred to the Water Committee.
   (B)   The Committee shall annually review the guidelines for service and
make any recommendations to the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-13)
§ 30.37 DUTIES OF SEWER COMMITTEE.
   (A)   All matters relating to policy for the sewer system of the town shall
be referred to the Sewer Committee.
   (B)   The Committee shall annually review guidelines for service and make
any recommendations to the Council.
(1996 Code, § 5-14)
§ 30.38 DUTIES OF SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE.
   All matters relating to general policy and special contracts for solid waste
removal shall be referred to the Solid Waste Committee.
(1996 Code, § 5-15)
§ 30.39 DUTIES OF COMMITTEE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The Committee on Streets and Sidewalks shall exercise general
supervision over the streets and sidewalks of the town. It shall, from time to
time, by a report in writing, recommend to the State Department of Highways or
the Director of Public Works of the town such repairs and/or recommendations as
it may deem advisable, describing where such work is needed.
   (B)   The Committee on Streets and Sidewalks shall recommend requests for
streetlighting to the Council and shall annually (prior to July of each year)
present to the Council recommendations for streets to be requested for
introduction into the Department of Highways secondary system within the town.
(1996 Code, § 5-16)
§ 30.40 PERSONNEL COMMITTEE.
   All matters relating to personnel shall be directed to the Personnel
Committee. The Committee shall be responsible for keeping an updated copy of
the personnel policy on file at the Town Hall.
(1996 Code, § 5-17)
§ 30.41 DUTIES OF TRAFFIC AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AND ORDINANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   All matters relating to public safety and ordinances of the town shall
be referred to the Traffic and Law Enforcement and Ordinance Committee and the
Town Attorney, who shall serve as adviser to the Committee.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of this Committee to make recommendations to the
Council for passage of or amendments relating to ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 5-18)
§ 30.42 DUTIES OF BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Beautification Committee to organize and
promote an annual cleanup month for April of each year.
   (B)   In March of each year, the Committee shall make recommendations to the
Council for beautification projects to be carried out during the spring and
summer months.
(1996 Code, § 5-19)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
31.01   Control; composition
   
31.02   Chief to have control of equipment
   
31.03   Authority of Chief and Assistance Chief
   
31.04   Junior firefighters; certification; insurance
   
31.05   Emergency service cost reimbursement
Police Force
   
31.20   Establishment
   
31.21   Maintenance of operation manual
   
31.22   Number of officers
Planning Commission
   
31.35   Name of Commission
   
31.36   Membership; appointment
   
31.37   Terms of office
   
31.38   Vacancies
   
31.39   Removal of members
   
31.40   Expenses
Industrial Development Authority
   
31.55   Authority created
   
31.56   Name
   
31.57   Appointment of members; terms
   
31.58   Initial meeting to be called by Mayor
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 92
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 CONTROL; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the town shall be under the control of the Town
Council and shall be composed of a volunteer organization known as the
“Independence Fire Department.”
   (B)   Such Department shall elect its own officers and prescribe its own
rules and regulations for the conduct of its members subject to the approval of
the Council. The names of the elected officers and members shall be presented
by the duly elected Chief to the Council for confirmation at the next regular
meeting of the Council after the election of officers by the Fire Department.
(1996 Code, § 26-1)
§ 31.02 CHIEF TO HAVE CONTROL OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose for which the Department exists, the Chief shall have
full control and supervision of all apparatus and equipment used by the
Department.
   (B)   All matters shall be taken up or discussed by the Chief or any other
member of the Department should the Chief decline or fail to present any such
matters.
(1996 Code, § 26-2)
§ 31.03 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   The Chief and Assistant Chief are herein empowered with the same authority
as that of the town police during the drilling of the Department or while going
to or from a fire and while actually firefighting.
(1996 Code, § 26-3)
§ 31.04 JUNIOR FIREFIGHTERS; CERTIFICATION; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Title. The title of this section shall be known as the “Junior
Firefighter Programs Ordinance of Grayson County, Virginia.”
(1996 Code, § 26-4)
   (B)   Certification; exemption of trainer or instructor; insurance.
      (1)   Any person 16 years of age or older, with parental or guardian
approval, may work with or participate fully in all activities of a volunteer
fire company or department, provided that such person has attained
certification under National Fire Protection Association 1001, Level One,
firefighter standards, as administered by the Department of Fire Programs.
      (2)   Any trainer or instructor of such persons mentioned in division (B)
(1) above, or any member of a volunteer fire company who supervises any such
person at the scene of an emergency shall be exempt from the provisions of VA
Code § 40.1-103, as amended, provided that the volunteer fire company or
department has, in force, insurance which provides coverage for injuries to or
the death of such person in the performance of his or her activities under this
section.
(1996 Code, § 26-5)
§ 31.05 EMERGENCY SERVICE COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Independence Volunteer Fire
Department Emergency Service Cost Reimbursement Ordinance.”
   (B)   Authority, findings; and purpose.
      (1)   Authority. Under the Code of Virginia, as amended, and the Charter
of the town, the Town Council has the authority to make rules and regulations
for the government of public safety and/or fire companies located within the
town.
      (2)   Findings. It is recognized that the duties of fire companies
require specialized fire/safety/emergency/rescue/environmental/ hazardous
material tools, equipment, materials, supplies and specialized training in
order to provide for the safety of the public served. Such required, as well as
the response to emergency situations involving, and/or caused by, non-resident
individuals, places a tremendous financial burden on said fire companies. While
taxes, if applicable, may provide the fire companies sufficient financial
assistance to exist, in an effort to avoid ever-increasing tax burdens of the
residents of the town, it is found that the alternative source of funding,
emergency service cost reimbursement (i.e., response billing) should be
authorized.
      (3)   Purpose. To grant any fire company operating in the town
(hereinafter “Fire Departments”) the authority to seek reimbursement for the
reasonable cost of responding to such incidents, as well as the reasonable
costs to recoup such costs.
   (C)   Recovery of costs.
      (1)   Fire Departments are authorized to recover the reasonable costs of
the use of emergency fire and/or rescue (including, but not limited to, vehicle
accidents) personnel hours, tools, equipment, materials and vehicles; hazardous
material and/or environmental response personnel hours, tools, equipment,
materials and vehicles; and reasonable interest on any amount due from the date
of the response forward. Additionally, Fire Departments are authorized to
collect a reasonable flat-rate fee for any false alarm responses or fire drill
responses for which the Fire Department did not receive at least 48 hours’
prior notice. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as limiting any
amounts Fire Departments are authorized to collect tinder any applicable state
statute or law.
      (2)   The reasonable costs authorized to be billed for under this section
may be recovered directly by the Fire Department or through a third party
billing service as an authorized agent for the collection of such costs.
      (3)   The reimbursement rates for the aforementioned costs shall be set
by the billing entity.
      (4)   If a third party billing service is utilized, said third party
billing service shall be authorized to charge a service charge in addition to
the costs it is recovering for the Fire Department. Said service charge will be
set by the third party billing service.
      (5)   All funds recovered under this section, and due to the Fire
Department, shall be remitted directly to the Fire Department by either the
responsible party or, if a third party billing service is utilized, by said
third party billing service. All funds recovered under this section shall be
exclusively used for the support of the Fire Department.
      (6)   (Option #1). In the event that collection costs and/or attorney’s
fees are incurred by the Fire Department or third party billing service as a
result of the efforts required to obtained full reimbursement for the costs
billed for under this section, said collection costs and/or attorney’s fees may
be recovered by the Fire Department or third party billing service from the
party responsible and/or any applicable insurance company/carrier of the party
responsible for the costs originally billed for under this section.
      (7)   (Option #2). The Fire Department or third party billing service
shall only have the authority to recover the costs authorized under this
section from the applicable insurance company/carrier of the party responsible
for the costs authorized to be billed for under this section. In the event that
collection costs and/or attorney’s fees are incurred by the Fire Department or
third party billing service as a result of the efforts required to obtained
full reimbursement for the costs billed for under this section, said collection
costs and/or attorney’s fees may be recovered by the Fire Department or third
party billing service from the applicable insurance company/carrier of the
party responsible for the costs authorized to be billed for under this section.
   (D)   Costs; effective date. Costs authorized to be billed under this
section may be billed from a retroactive date of not more than 30 days
preceding the effective date of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2008)
POLICE FORCE
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council shall establish a police force as it shall deem proper and
necessary.
(1996 Code, § 53-1)
§ 31.21 MAINTENANCE OF OPERATION MANUAL.
   The Police Department shall maintain a standards of operation manual in its
offices that is updated to state and federal requirements and standards.
(1996 Code, § 53-2)
§ 31.22 NUMBER OF OFFICERS.
   The Police Department shall consist of no fewer than two officers as
required by the July 29, 1977 annexation agreement between the town and the
county.
(1996 Code, § 53-3)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.35 NAME OF COMMISSION.
   The official title of this Commission shall be the “Town of Independence
Planning Commission.”
(1996 Code, § 49-1)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision of land, see
Chapter 151
   Zoning, see
Chapter 153
§ 31.36 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   A Town Planning Commission shall consist of eight members. Members shall be
appointed by the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 49-2)
§ 31.37 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   For the members first appointed, three shall be appointed for terms of four
years; two shall be appointed for terms of three years; two shall be appointed
for terms of two years; and one shall be appointed for one year. Subsequent
appointments shall be for terms of four years.
(1996 Code, § 49-3)
§ 31.38 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Any vacancy in membership shall be filled by appointment by the Town
Council.
   (B)   It shall be for an unexpired term only.
(1996 Code, § 49-4)
§ 31.39 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Any appointed member may be removed by the Town Council for inefficiency,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
(1996 Code, § 49-5)
§ 31.40 EXPENSES.
   The Council may provide for the payment of expenses incurred in the
performance of the Commission’s official duties.
(1996 Code, § 49-6)
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.55 AUTHORITY CREATED.
   There is hereby created a political subdivision of the commonwealth with
such public and corporate powers as set forth in the Industrial Development and
Revenue Bond Act (VA Code§ 15.2-4900 et seq.), including such powers as may
hereafter be set forth from time to time in said Act.
(1996 Code, § 30-1)
§ 31.56 NAME.
   The name of the political subdivision of the commonwealth created hereby
shall be the Industrial Development Authority of the town.
(1996 Code, § 30-2)
§ 31.57 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS.
   Initial appointment of the Directors of the Authority shall be made in
accordance with VA Code § 15.2-4904 for terms provided therein. Subsequent
appointments shall be made for four-year terms.
(1996 Code, § 30-3)
§ 31.58 INITIAL MEETING TO BE CALLED BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor of the town is hereby authorized to call the initial meeting of
the Board of Directors to the Authority.
(1996 Code, § 30-4)
CHAPTER 32: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Business License Tax
   
32.001   License requirement; application; penalty
   
32.002   Maximum license tax
   
32.003   Specific license tax
   
32.004   Expiration of license
   
32.005   Information to be displayed on vehicle
Utility Tax
   
32.020   Title
   
32.021   Definitions
   
32.022   Tax rate; levy; payment
   
32.023   Requirement applicable to telephone service
   
32.024   Duty of Town Clerk
   
32.025   Duty of seller generally
   
32.026   Records to be kept by seller
   
32.027   Extension of time for filing return
   
32.028   Exemptions
   
32.029   Amendments
Bank Franchise Tax
   
32.040   Definitions
   
32.041   Tax imposed; amount
   
32.042   Filing of returns; schedules
   
32.043   Payment
   
32.044   Violations
Exemption for Elderly and Disabled Persons
   
32.055   Title
   
32.056   Definitions
   
32.057   Eligibility
   
32.058   Restrictions
   
32.059   Determining financial worth
   
32.060   Filing for tax exemption
   
32.061   Change in condition during year
   
32.062   Deferral of taxes
   
32.063   Maintenance of records
   
32.064   Amendments
Real and Personal Property Taxes
   
32.075   Assessment and payment
   
32.076   Household goods and personal effects
   
32.077   Application of classifications
   
32.078   Exemption from taxation
Transient Occupancy Tax
   
32.090   Title; authority; jurisdiction
   
32.091   Definitions
   
32.092   Levy of tax
   
32.093   Collection by provider
   
32.094   Exemptions
   
32.095   Gratuities; services charges
   
32.096   Report; remittance of taxes; records
   
32.097   Discount for collection
   
32.098   Penalties and interest
   
32.099   Failure to collect
   
32.100   Termination or disposition of business
   
32.101   Enforcement
   
32.102   Administration
   
32.103   Copies on file
Meals Tax
   
32.115   Title; authority; jurisdiction
   
32.116   Definitions
   
32.117   Levy of tax
   
32.118   Collection by seller
   
32.119   Exemptions; limits on application
   
32.120   Gratuities; service charges
   
32.121   Report; remittance of taxes; records
   
32.122   Discount
   
32.123   Penalties and interest
   
32.124   Failure to collect
   
32.125   Termination or disposition of business
   
32.126   Enforcement
   
32.127   Administration
   
32.128   Copies on file
 
   
32.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Forms
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
§ 32.001 LICENSE REQUIREMENT; APPLICATION; PENALTY.
   License taxes shall be levied and collected for the use and purpose of the
town for the license year beginning July 15, 1989, and ending July 14, 1990,
and also for each and every year thereafter, beginning with July 15 of each
year and ending with July 14, following, as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall, without a license, prosecute any
of the businesses, employments or professions named in the following sections
of this subchapter. The license tax hereinafter specified are hereby annually
levied on every person, firm or corporation prosecuting any such businesses,
employments or professions.
   (B)   License applications shall be mailed on or about February 28 annually.
Applicants shall file their returns, listing gross sales, receipts or
commissions, not later than May 14 annually. For any business which fails to so
file its return, a second notice shall be mailed on or about May 30 annually,
which notice shall include the late fee as imposed in division (D) below and
notice of additional penalties and interest to be imposed if said return is not
filed and the license paid as provided in division (D) below. For any business
which fails to so file its return or tender its license payment by July 15, a
delinquency notice shall be mailed on or about October 15 annually, which
notice shall include the late fee, penalties and interest as imposed in
division (D) below, along with a copy of a proposed warrant, which warrant, if
the return, license payment, and the late fee, penalty and interest are not
received, will be filed with the appropriate local court on or about December 1
annually and pursued for judgment.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses in the town shall be requested to furnish
verification of gross receipts, fees or commissions.
   (D)   Each year, a late fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
shall be imposed for any business which has not listed its gross sales,
receipts or commissions by May 14 of said year. Further, each year an
additional penalty of 10% shall be imposed for any business which has not
listed its gross sales, receipts or commissions, or tendered its license
payment, by July 15 of said year. Thereafter, any such delinquent license
payment shall accrue interest at an annual rate of 12% until paid in full.
Should judgment through any court be pursued and granted, the town shall be
entitled to attorney fees of $500 for the services of its attorney handling the
matter, plus court costs and interest as provided herein.
   (E)   The town shall obtain information from the Commissioner of Taxation of
the commonwealth on any merchant, business or professional who does not file
its annual return with the town providing its gross sales, receipts, fees or
commissions by July 15 of the respective license year. In addition, the town
may obtain information from the Commissioner of Taxation of the commonwealth on
any merchant, business or professional to confirm the information provided in
its respective return.
(1996 Code, § 148-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2004)
§ 32.002 MAXIMUM LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, no town license
tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter or any other
ordinance or charter by the town shall be greater than an amount set by Council
from time to time or the rate set forth below for the class of enterprise
listed, whichever is higher:
      (1)   For contracting, and persons constructing for their own account for
sale, $0.15 per $100 of gross receipts;
      (2)   For retail sales, $0.15 per $100 of gross receipts;
      (3)   For financial, real estate and professional services, $0.20 per
$100 of gross receipts; and
      (4)   For repair, personal and business services, and all other
businesses and occupations not specifically listed or excepted in this
subchapter, $0.15 per $100 of gross receipts.
   (B)   A town license tax shall be imposed on any operator in an amount not
exceeding the sum set by Council from time to time for the operation of ten or
more coin machines. For the operation of less than ten coin machines, the
license tax shall be an amount set by Council from time to time per machine.
The term OPERATOR means any person, firm or corporation selling, leasing,
renting or otherwise furnishing or providing a coin operated machine or device
operated on the coin in the slot principal; provided, however, the term
OPERATOR shall not include a person, firm or corporation owning less than three
coin machines and operating such machines on property owned or leased by such
person, firm or corporation.
(1996 Code, § 148-2)
§ 32.003 SPECIFIC LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Carnivals, shows, circuses, menageries and the like. Every person,
firm, company or corporation which exhibits performances in a side show, dog,
pony or either show, trained animal show, carnival, circus, menagerie and
circus or any other show, exhibition or performance similar thereto shall
procure a license therefore and shall pay for each day’s performance or
exhibition a license tax as follows:
      (1)   On such shows traveling overland by automobile or other conveyance,
the tax for each day’s performance or exhibition shall be based upon the
automobile or conveyance capacity and shall be set by Council from time to
time.
      (2)   On each sideshow, curiosity show or similar show, exhibiting on the
same or contiguous lots with a circus and owned by a person, firm or
corporation other than the owner or owners of the circus the tax shall be set
by Council from time to time. The foregoing section shall not be construed to
prohibit a resident, mechanic or artist from exhibiting any production of his
or her own art or invention without compensation nor shall any registration,
bond or license be required of any industrial arts exhibit not of any
agricultural fair or shows exhibiting within the grounds of such fair or fairs
during the period of such fair whether an admission be charged or not of
resident persons performing in a show or exhibition for charity or other
benevolent purposes, nor of exhibitions of volunteer fire companies, whether
admission be charged or not.
   (B)   Contractors.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, who shall engage in the following
shall be deemed a contractor:
         (a)   Accept or offer to accept orders or contracts for doing any work
on or in any building or structure requiring the use of paint, stone, brick,
mortar, wood, cement, structural iron or steel, sheet iron, galvanized iron,
metallic piping, tin, lead or other metal or other building material;
         (b)   Accept or offer to accept contracts to do any paving, curbing or
other work on sidewalks, streets, alleys or highways, or public or private
property, using asphalt, brick, stone, cement, concrete, wood or any
composition;
         (c)   Accept or offer to accept an order for or contract to excavate
earth, rock or other material for foundation or any other purpose or for
cutting, trimming or maintaining rights-of-way; or
         (d)   Accept or offer to accept an order or contract to construct any
sewer of stone, brick, terra cotta or other material.
      (2)   Every such contract, electrical contractor, plumber and steam
fitter, for the privilege of transacting business in the town, shall pay a
license, to be set by Council from time to time:
         (a)   If the gross amount of all orders or contracts accepted during
the preceding year aggregated as much as $1,000 and not more than $5,000, he or
she shall pay a specific sum;
         (b)   If the amount of such orders or contracts was more than $5,000
and did not exceed $10,000, he or she shall pay a specific sum;
         (c)   If the amount of such orders or contracts exceeded $10,000 and
did not exceed $20,000, he or she shall pay a specific sum;
         (d)   If the amount of such orders or contracts exceeded $20,000 and
did not exceed $50,000, he or she shall pay a specific sum;
         (e)   If the amount of such orders or contracts exceeded $50,000 and
did not exceed $100,000, he or she shall pay the sum set by Council from time
to time; if the amount of such orders or contracts exceeded $100,000 and did
not exceed $150,000, he or she shall pay a specific sum;
         (f)   If the amount of such orders or contracts exceeded $150,000 and
did not exceed $300,000, he or she shall pay a specific sum; and
         (g)   If the amount of such contracts or orders exceeded $300,000, he
or she shall pay a specific sum.
   (C)   Peddlers. Any person who shall carry from place to place any goods,
wares or merchandise and offer to sell or barter the same, or actually sell or
barter the same, shall be deemed a peddler. For the privilege of peddling or
bartering within the town there shall be paid in an amount set by Council from
time to time for each person so engaged or employed, except that:
      (1)   The tax on peddlers of ice, wood or coal, not produced by mem but
purchased for resale, shall be in an amount set by Council from time to time
for each vehicle licensed and used in peddling within the town;
      (2)   The tax on peddlers of meat, milk, butter, ice, cream, sandwiches,
candy, eggs, poultry, fish, oysters, game, vegetables, fruits or other family
supplies of a perishable nature, and beverages and soft drinks in cans, bottles
or otherwise dispensed, not grown or produced by them shall be in an amount set
by Council from time to time for each vehicle used in such peddling; and
      (3)   The tax on peddlers of seafood who buy the seafood they peddle
directly from persons who catch or take the same shall be in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
(1996 Code, § 148-3)
§ 32.004 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this subchapter shall expire on the July 15 of
each year. No license issued under this section shall be prorated.
(1996 Code, § 148-4)
§ 32.005 INFORMATION TO BE DISPLAYED ON VEHICLE.
   Every vehicle used in peddling as aforesaid shall have conspicuously
displayed thereon the name of the peddler using the same, together with the
street and number of his or her residence if he or she resides in town.
(1996 Code, § 148-5)
UTILITY TAX
§ 32.020 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Utility Tax Ordinance of the Town of
Independence, Virginia.”
(1996 Code, § 148-6)
§ 32.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. In addition to the normal word usage, buildings
having a single meter for the furnishing of electricity or gas to two or more
dwelling units or having a central telephone switchboard furnishing telephone
service to two or more dwelling units.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
combinations of individuals of whatever form and character.
   PURCHASER. Every person who purchases a utility service.
   SELLER. Every person, whether a public service corporation or a municipality
or private corporation or not, who sells or furnishes a utility service.
(1996 Code, § 148-7)
§ 32.022 TAX RATE; LEVY; PAYMENT.
   (A)   On all billings, rendered on and after August 24, 1976, and continuing
thereafter unless otherwise charged, there is hereby imposed and levied by the
town, upon each and every purchase of a utility service, a tax for general
purpose in the following amounts.
      (1)   On purchases of electric service for residential purposes the tax
shall be in the amount of 20% per month of the first $15 basic charge per month
(exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by the seller against the
purchaser with respect to such residential electric service; (provided,
however, that there shall be no tax computed on bills submitted for electric
service for water or space heating service when such service is separately
metered).
      (2)   On purchases of electric service for commercial purposes, the tax
shall be in the amount of 20% of the first $100 basic charge per month
(exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by the seller against the
purchaser with respect to such commercial electric service.
      (3)   On purchases of electric services for industrial purposes, the tax
shall be in the amount of 20% of the first $200 basic charge per month
(exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by the seller against the
purchaser with respect to such industrial electric service.
      (4)   On purchases of gas utilities service for residential purposes the
tax shall be in the amount of 20% per month on the first $15 basic charge per
month (exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by seller against
the purchaser with respect to such residential gas service.
      (5)   On purchases of gas utilities service for commercial purposes the
tax shall be in the amount of 20% per month on the first $100 basic charge per
month (exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to such commercial gas service.
      (6)   On purchases of gas utilities service for industrial purposes the
tax shall be in the amount of 20% per month on the first $200 basic charge per
month (exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon) made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to such industrial gas service.
      (7)   On purchases of telephone service for residential purposes the tax
shall be in the amount of 20% per month on the first $15 basic charge per month
(exclusive of any federal of state tax thereon) made by the seller against the
purchaser with respect to such residential telephone service (provided,
however, that the tax shall be computed only on the base rate and no tax shall
be charged on toll calls outside of local service.)
      (8)   On purchases of telephone service for commercial, businesses and
industrial purposes the tax shall be in the amount of 20% per month of the
charge on the first $100 basic charge per month (exclusive of any federal or
state tax thereon) made by the seller against the purchaser with respect to
such commercial telephone service (provided, however, that the tax shall be
computed only on the base rate and no tax shall be charged on toll calls
outside of local service).
   (B)   Bills shall be considered monthly bills if submitted 12 times annually
for a period of approximately one month or portion thereof. In the event that
bills shall be rendered for utility services herein stated on a basis other
than one month, the tax imposed shall be computed pro rata as if such bill was
rendered on a monthly basis with rates being adjusted accordingly.
(1996 Code, § 148-8)
§ 32.023 REQUIREMENT APPLICABLE TO TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   The tax imposed and levied by this subchapter on purchasers with respect to
telephone service shall apply to all charges made for local telephone exchange
service except as follows.
   (A)   Coin box telephone. The total of the guaranteed charge on each bill
rendered for semipublic coin box telephone service shall be included in the
basis for the tax with respect to the purchaser of such service, but no other
tax shall be imposed on telephone service paid for by inserting coins in coin
operated telephones.
   (B)   Flat rate service with respect to flat rate and flat message rate
service, the tax shall apply to only the amount payable for local area service
and shall not apply to any specific charge for calls to points outside the area
of local calls.
   (C)   Message rate service where purchases of telephone service are charged
on a message rate basis, the tax shall apply only to the basic charge for such
service and shall not apply to any charge for additional message units.
(1996 Code, § 148-9)
§ 32.024 DUTY OF TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall be charged with the power and duty of collecting and
receiving the taxes imposed and levied under this subchapter. The Clerk may
prescribe forms for filing of any reports or the payment of any funds set forth
in this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-10)
§ 32.025 DUTY OF SELLER GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collection
medium or agency for the town to collect from the purchaser for use by the
town, the tax imposed and levied by this subchapter at the time of collecting
the purchase price charged therefor, and the taxes collected during each
calendar month of billing period shall be reported and paid by each seller to
the Town Clerk by the last day of the second calendar month thereafter,
together with the names and address of any purchaser who has refused to pay his
or her tax.
   (B)   In all cases where the seller collects the price for utility service
in stated periods, the tax imposed and levied by this subchapter shall be
computed on the amount of purchase during the month of period according to each
bill rendered, provided the amount of tax to be collected shall be the nearest
whole cent to the amount computed.
(1996 Code, § 148-11)
§ 32.026 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY SELLER.
   (A)   Each seller shall keep complete records showing all purchases in the
town, which records shall show the price charged against each purchaser with
respect to each purchase, the date thereof, and the date of payment thereof,
and the amount of tax imposed thereof.
   (B)   Such records shall be kept open for inspection by the duly authorized
agents of the town during regular business hours on business days, and the duly
authorized agents of the town shall have the right, power and authority to make
such transcripts thereof during such times as they may desire.
(1996 Code, § 148-12)
§ 32.027 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING RETURN.
   The Town Clerk may extend, for good cause shown, the time of filing any
return required to be filed by the provisions of this subchapter; providing
however, no such extension shall exceed a period of 90 days.
(1996 Code, § 148-13)
§ 32.028 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are hereby exempt from the payment of the tax imposed
and levied by this subchapter with respect to the purchase of utility service
used by such governmental agencies:
      (1)   The United States of America, diplomatic personnel exempt by laws
of the United States;
      (2)   Offices of the state and political subdivisions; and
      (3)   Boards, commissions and the authorities and agencies of the state
and political subdivisions.
   (B)   Churches are hereby exempt from the payment of the tax imposed and
levied by this subchapter with respect to the purchase of utility service.
(1996 Code, § 148-14)
§ 32.029 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Council may after public hearing as required by law, amend,
supplement, change or appeal any section of this subchapter it deems necessary.
(1996 Code, § 148-16)
BANK FRANCHISE TAX
§ 32.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. As defined in VA Code § 58.1-1201.
   NET CAPITAL. A bank’s net capital computed as provided in VA Code § 58.1-
1205.
(1996 Code, § 148-17)
§ 32.041 TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT.
   (A)   A franchise tax equal to 80% of the state rate of franchise tax on
each $100 of net capital of any bank whose principal office is located within
the corporate limits of the town is hereby imposed. If any such bank has any
branch or branches located outside the corporate limits of the town, the
franchise tax herein imposed shall be upon only such proportion of the taxable
value of the net capital of such bank as the total deposits of the bank, minus
deposits through any branch or branches located outside the corporate limits of
the town, bear to the total deposits of the bank as of the end of the preceding
year.
   (B)   A franchise tax equal to 80% of the state rate of franchise tax is
imposed on each $100 of the taxable value of the net capital of any branch of
any bank located in the town and whose principal office is located outside the
corporate limits of the town. The rate of taxation under this division (B)
shall be on such proportion of the net capital of such bank as the deposits
through the branch so located in the corporate limits of the town bear to the
total deposits of the bank as of the end of the preceding year.
(1996 Code, § 148-18)
§ 32.042 FILING OF RETURNS; SCHEDULES.
   (A)   On or after January 1 of each year, but not later than March 1 of any
year, all banks whose principal offices are located within the town shall
prepare and file with the Town Clerk a return, as provided by VA Code § 58.1-
1207, in duplicate, which shall set forth the tax on net capital computed
pursuant to Chapter 12, Title 58.1 (VA Code §§ 58.1-1200 et seq.). The Town
Clerk shall certify a copy of such filing of the bank’s return and schedule and
shall forthwith transmit the certified copy to the state department of
taxation.
   (B)   In the event that the principal office of a bank is located outside
the corporate boundaries of the town and such bank has branch offices located
within the town, in addition to the filing requirements set forth in division
(A) above, any bank conducting such branch business shall file with the Town
Clerk a copy of the real estate deduction schedule, apportionment and other
items which are required by VA Code §§ 58.1-1207, 58.1-1211 and 58.1-1212.
(1996 Code, § 148-19)
§ 32.043 PAYMENT.
   Each bank, on or before June 1 of each year, shall pay to the Town Clerk all
taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-20)
§ 32.044 VIOLATIONS.
   Any bank which fails to file a return or pay the tax required by this
subchapter or fails to comply with any other provision of this subchapter shall
be subject to a penalty of 5% of the tax due. If the Town Clerk is satisfied
that such failure is due to providential or other good cause, such return and
payment of tax shall be accepted exclusive of such penalty, but with interest
determined in accordance with VA Code § 58.1-15.
(1996 Code, § 148-21)
EXEMPTION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED PERSONS
§ 32.055 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Tax Relief Ordinance of the Town of
Independence, Virginia.”
(1996 Code, § 148-22)
§ 32.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABLED. Anyone drawing full social security or veteran benefits.
   INCOME. Salaries, dividends, interest, social security, welfare, pensions,
rents and living allowances.
   JOINT OWNERSHIP. Receive a full exemption if either of the husband or the
wife have reached his or her sixty-fifth birthday and meet all other
requirements.
   MOBILE HOMES. Shall be considered as one residence and be subject to the
same benefit as a permanent resident.
(1996 Code, § 148-23)
§ 32.057 ELIGIBILITY.
   To be eligible, a person must:
   (A)   Have reached his or her sixty-fifth birthday prior to January 1 of the
year in which they are applying or be declared to be disabled;
   (B)   Own land and occupy a dwelling in the town and must be the head of the
household; or
   (C)   Upon his or her own initiative, file an application with the Clerk of
the town initially and for each year thereafter for such tax relief.
(1996 Code, § 148-24)
§ 32.058 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The total combined income during the immediately preceding calendar
year from all sources of the owner of the dwelling living therein, and of any
person or persons living therein shall not exceed $5,000.
   (B)   The net combined financial worth, including equitable interest, as of
December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year of the person, excluding
the value of the dwelling and the land not exceeding one acre on which the
dwelling is located shall not exceed $10,000.
(1996 Code, § 148-25)
§ 32.059 DETERMINING FINANCIAL WORTH.
   (A)   Land values will be determined from the appraised value stipulated on
the land cards.
   (B)   Other financial value will be determined from information provided on
the application blank.
   (C)   A certified tax return shall be attached to the application to assist
in establishing the income and financial worth of an applicant if such person
has filed a return.
   (D)   Debts shall include all debts except those related to household and
personal effects.
   (E)   Household and personal effects shall not be considered when figuring
the financial worth of an applicant.
   (F)   Livestock shall be based on the same valuation as those presently used
by the Commissioner of Revenue to assist livestock.
   (G)   Life insurance shall not be considered when figuring financial worth.
   (H)   A mortgage shall not be considered beyond the point in which it
exceeds the appraised value of property to which it applies.
   (I)   Automobiles, trucks and the like, shall be valued at same values as
assessed by the Clerk for tax purposes.
   (J)   Farm machinery shall be valued at the same value as assessed by the
Clerk for tax purposes.
(1996 Code, § 148-26)
§ 32.060 FILING FOR TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any person filing for such tax relief must file application annually
with the Clerk of the town and shall include such information as asked for in
the application blank prepared by the town.
   (B)   Such application shall be filed not later than May 1 of each year or
such prior day after February 1 each year.
   (C)   The Clerk shall also make further inquiry of persons seeking such
exemption, requiring answers under oath, as may be reasonably necessary to
determine qualifications as shall be required by the application.
(1996 Code, § 148-27)
§ 32.061 CHANGE IN CONDITION DURING YEAR.
   Changes in respect to income, financial worth, ownership of property or
other factors occurring within the taxable year of which the application is
filed and having the effect of exceeding or violating the limits and conditions
provided herein shall nullify any exemption of the current year and the taxable
year immediately following.
(1996 Code, § 148-28)
§ 32.062 DEFERRAL OF TAXES.
   (A)   Tax relief according to this subchapter shall be the deferral method.
   (B)   Deferred tax shall accumulate without penalty or interest and shall be
paid to the town by the vendor upon the sale of the property, or from the
estate of the descendent within one year after the death of the last owner
thereof who qualifies for the deferral by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Such deferred real estate taxes shall constitute a lien upon the said
real estate as if they had been assessed without regard to the deferral
permitted by this subchapter; provided, however, that such liens shall, to the
extent that they exceed in the aggregate 10% of the price for which such real
estate may be sold, be inferior to all other liens or records.
(1996 Code, § 148-29)
§ 32.063 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   The Clerk of the town shall type up a land book consisting of an
original and two copies. The copy shall be kept in the town office.
   (B)   The Clerk shall maintain this record permanently.
(1996 Code, § 148-31)
§ 32.064 AMENDMENTS.
   The 1977 General Assembly amended VA Code § 58.1-3210, the section allowing
localities to provide real estate tax relief for elderly taxpayers by:
   (A)   Allowing real estate tax relief to be provided to persons who are
permanently and totally disabled;
   (B)   Prohibiting the exclusion from real estate tax relief of otherwise
eligible persons due to extended stays in hospitals, nursing homes and the
like; and
   (C)   Allowing the total combined income limitation to be raised to $11,000
with the exemption or deferral to be reduced by the amount total combined
income exceeds $10,000.
(1996 Code, § 148-32)
REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES
§ 32.075 ASSESSMENT AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   An annual tax of $0,148 per $100 valuation shall be levied on real
estate and an annual tax of $0.63 per $100 valuation shall be levied on
tangible personal property situated within the corporate limits of the town,
with, in either case, a minimum tax of $2.50 regardless of valuation. The
amount so calculated shall be referred to as the base tax. The rates provided
herein may henceforth be revised annually as part of the budget preparation and
adoption process without specifically revising this code division (A).
   (B)   This tax shall become due and payable to the town, on December 5,
1980, and on December 5 of each succeeding year.
   (C)   The town’s clerical employees shall obtain annual tax information for
both personal property and real property from the Office of the County
Commissioner of Revenue (and/or its Assessor’s Office) on or before September
15. Town staff shall convert said information and print tax tickets by October
1. Tax tickets shall be mailed on or before October 30. For any taxpayer who
fails to pay said taxes, a second notice shall be mailed on or about February
15 of the subsequent tax year, which notice shall include the fees, penalties
and interest imposed in §
32.999. For any taxpayer who fails to pay said tax, fees, penalties and/or
interest, a delinquency notice shall be mailed on or about May 1 of the
subsequent tax year, which notice shall include the late fee, penalties and
interest as imposed in §
32.999, and, in the case of delinquent personal property taxes, said notice
shall include a copy of a proposed warrant, which warrant, if the tax, fees,
penalties and interest are not received, will be filed with the appropriate
local court on or about June 1 and pursued for judgment. To avoid undue burden
on the local court, if a significant number of unpaid tax cases exist, town
staff may elect to divide the collection cases into two portions and file one-
half on or about June 1 and the remainder on or about July 1.
   (D)   Town staff shall maintain a list of any unpaid real estate taxes and
shall, in addition to the notices provided for in division (C) above, mail an
additional annual delinquency notice on or before October 30. Should real
estate taxes remain unpaid for a period of five or more years, town staff shall
forward a list of the real estate having unpaid real estate taxes to the Town
Attorney, who shall petition the court to sell said real property to pay the
taxes, fees, penalties and interest thereon. Should judgment through any court
be pursued and granted, the town shall be entitled to attorney fees of $500 for
the services of its attorney handling the matter, plus court costs and interest
as provided herein.
(1996 Code, § 148-33)
§ 32.076 HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND PERSONAL EFFECTS.
   Household goods and personal effects are hereby defined as separate items of
taxation and classification as follows:
   (A)   Bicycles;
   (B)   Household and kitchen furniture, including gold and silver plates,
plate ware, watches and clocks, sewing machines, refrigerators, automatic
refrigerating machinery of any type, vacuum cleaners and all other household
machinery, books, firearms and weapons of all kinds;
   (C)   Pianos, organs, phonographs and record players, and records to be used
therewith and all other musical instruments of whatever kind, radio and
television instruments and equipment;
   (D)   Oil paintings, pictures, statuary, curios, articles of virtue and
works of art;
   (E)   Diamonds, cameos or other precious stones and all precious metals used
as ornaments of jewelry;
   (F)   Sporting and photographic equipment;
   (G)   Clothing and objects of apparel; and
   (H)   All other tangible personal property used by an individual or a family
or household incident to maintaining an abode.
(1996 Code, § 148-35)
§ 32.077 APPLICATION OF CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classification set forth in §
32.076 shall apply only to such property owned and used by an individual or by
a family or household incident to maintaining an abode.
(1996 Code, § 148-36)
§ 32.078 EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION.
   All of the classes of household goods and personal effects set forth in this
subchapter are exempt from taxation.
(1996 Code, § 148-37)
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 32.090 TITLE; AUTHORITY; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance of the Town of Independence, Virginia.”
   (B)   Authority. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to VA Code Chapter 38,
Article 6, §§ 58.1-3819 and 58.1-3840, as amended.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
land within the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-38) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOMMODATIONS. Any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished to
transients for less than 30 continuous days by any hotel, motel, boardinghouse,
tourist home, inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, camping grounds, travel
campground, club and/or any other place in which rooms, lodging, space or
accommodations are regularly furnished to transients for a consideration.
   PROVIDER. Any person, persons or entity of any nature whatsoever which owns
or operates within the town any hotel, motel, boardinghouse, tourist home, inn,
tourist camp, tourist cabin, camping grounds, travel campground, club and/or
other facilities offering guest rooms rented out for continuous occupancy for
fewer than 30 consecutive days.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk or any duly designated official. For purposes of
this subchapter, the TOWN CLERK shall be deemed to be the Treasurer for the
town.
   TRANSIENT. One or more individuals who, for a period of not more than 30
consecutive days, either at their own expense or at the expense of another,
lodge or obtain lodging at any hotel, motel, boardinghouse, tourist home, inn,
tourist camp, tourist cabin, camping grounds, travel campground, club and/or
similar place.
(1996 Code, § 148-39) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.092 LEVY OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied by the town on each transient a tax at
the rate of 5% on the amount paid for accommodations purchased from any
provider.
(1996 Code, § 148-40) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.093 COLLECTION BY PROVIDER.
   (A)   Every person receiving any payment for accommodations with respect to
which a tax is levied hereunder shall collect and remit the amount of the tax
imposed by this subchapter from the transient on whom the same is levied or
from the transient paying for such accommodations at the time payment for such
accommodations is made.
   (B)   All tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-41) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.094 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall not be levied on rooms or spaces
rented and continuously occupied by the same individual or same group of
individuals for 30 or more days in any hotel, motel, boardinghouse, tourist
home, inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, camping grounds, travel campground,
club and/or other facilities offering guest rooms.
(1996 Code, § 148-42) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.095 GRATUITIES; SERVICES CHARGES.
   (A)   Where a purchaser provides a gratuity for an employee of a provider,
and the amount of the gratuity is wholly in the discretion of the purchaser,
the gratuity is not subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, whether paid
in cash to the employee or added to the bill and charged to the purchaser’s
account, provided that in the latter case, die full amount of the gratuity is
turned over to the employee by the provider.
   (B)   An amount or percent, whether designated as a gratuity, tip or service
charge, that is added to the price of the accommodations by the provider, and
required to be paid by the purchaser, as a part of the selling price of the
accommodations is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-43) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.096 REPORT; REMITTANCE OF TAXES; RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every provider required by this subchapter to pay to
the town the taxes imposed by this subchapter to make a report thereof setting
forth such information as the Town Clerk may prescribe and require, including
all purchases taxable under this subchapter, the amount charged the purchaser
for each such purchase, the date thereof, the taxes collected thereon and the
amount of tax required to be collected by this subchapter. Such person shall
sign and deliver such report to the Town Clerk with remittance of the taxes
collected, less any discount as provided below in §
32.097, by the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the
taxes are collected. Such records shall be kept and preserved by the provider
for a period of five years. The Town Clerk or his or her duly authorized agents
shall have the power to examine such records at reasonable times and without
unreasonable interference from the business of such person, for the purpose of
administering and enforcing the provisions of this subchapter and to make
transcripts of all or any parts thereof.
(1996 Code, § 148-44) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.097 DISCOUNT FOR COLLECTION.
   For the purpose of compensating providers for the collection of the tax
imposed by this subchapter, every provider shall be allowed 5% of the amount of
tax due and accounted for in the form of a deduction on his or her monthly
return, provided that the amount due is not delinquent at the time of payment.
(1996 Code, § 148-45) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.098 PENALTIES AND INTEREST
   If any person whose duty it is to do so shall fail or refuse to make the
report or remit the tax required by this subchapter within the time and in the
amount required, there shall be added by the Town Clerk to the amount of tax
due, a penalty in the amount of 10% per annum, which shall be computed upon the
tax and penalty from the date such were due and payable.
(1996 Code, § 148-46) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.099 FAILURE TO COLLECT.
   If any person whose duty it is to do so shall fail or refuse to collect the
tax imposed under this subchapter or to make timely report and remittance
thereof, the Town Clerk shall proceed in such manner as is practicable to
obtain facts and information on which to base an estimate of the tax due. As
soon as the Town Clerk has procured whatever facts and information may be
obtainable upon which to base the assessment of any tax payable by any person
who has failed to collect, report or remit such tax, the Town Clerk shall
proceed to determine and assess against such person the tax, penalty and
interest provided in this subchapter, and shall notify the person, by
registered mail sent to his or her last known address, of the amount of such
tax, penalty and interest. The total amount thereof shall be due and payable
ten days after the date such notice is sent.
(1996 Code, § 148-47) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.100 TERMINATION OR DISPOSITION OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any person required to collect and remit to the town any tax
imposed by this subchapter shall cease to operate or otherwise dispose of his
or her business, the tax shall immediately become due and payable, and the
person shall make a report and remittance thereof to the Town Clerk by the
first day of the month following the date on which said business was terminated
or disposition made thereof.
(1996 Code, § 148-48) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.101 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to ascertain the name of every
provider in the town who is liable for the collection of the tax imposed by
this subchapter and any person who fails, refuses or neglects to collect such
tax or to make the reports and remittances required by this subchapter. The
Town Clerk may have issued a summons for such person, and the summons may be
served upon such person in the manner provided by law, and the Town Clerk may
seek a conviction in the General District Court of the county, or civil remedy,
including injunction, against such person.
   (B)   In the event that the purchaser of any accommodations refuses to pay
the tax imposed by this subchapter, the seller may call upon the Sheriff’s
Department for assistance; and the investigating Sheriff or his or her Deputy
may, when probable cause exists, issue the purchaser a summons for his or her
violation returnable to the General District Court as provided by law.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall have the power and duty of collecting the tax
imposed and levied hereunder and shall cause the same to be paid into the
general treasury for the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-49) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.102 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Clerk may issue regulations for administration and enforcement of
this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-51) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
§ 32.103 COPIES ON FILE.
   Certified copies of this subchapter and all amendments thereto shall be
filed in the offices of the Town Clerk.
(1996 Code, § 148-52) (Ord. passed 8-13-2002)
MEALS TAX
§ 32.115 TITLE; AUTHORITY; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Meals Tax Ordinance of
the Town of Independence, Virginia.”
   (B)   Authority. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to VA Code Chapter 38,
Article 7.1, §§ 58.1-3833 and 58.1-3840.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
land within the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-53) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.116 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CATER. The furnishing of food and beverages, or both, on the premises of
another, for compensation.
   FOOD. All food, beverages or both, including alcoholic beverages, purchased
in or from a food establishment, whether prepared in such food establishment or
not, and whether consumed on the premises or not, and without regard to the
manner, time or place of service.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any place in or from which food or food products are
prepared, packaged, sold or distributed in the town, including, but not limited
to, any restaurant, dining room, grill, coffee shop, cafeteria, café, snack
bar, lunch counter, convenience store, movie theater, delicatessen,
confectionery, bakery, eating house, eatery, drugstore, ice cream/yogurt shops,
lunch wagon or truck, pushcart or other mobile faculty from which food is sold,
public or private club, resort, bar, lounge or other similar establishment,
public or private, and shall include private property outside of and contiguous
to a building or structure operated as a food establishment at which food or
food products are sold for immediate consumption.
   MEAL. Any prepared food or drink offered or held out for sale by a food
establishment for the purpose of being consumed by any person to satisfy the
appetite and is ready for immediate consumption. All such food and beverage,
unless otherwise specifically exempted or excluded herein, shall be included,
whether intended to be consumed on the seller’s premises or elsewhere, whether
designated as breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, supper or by some other name,
and without regard to the manner, time or place of service.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk or any duly designated official. For purposes of
this subchapter, the TOWN CLERK shall be deemed to be the Treasurer for the
Town of Independence, Virginia.
(1996 Code, § 148-54) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.117 LEVY OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied by the town on each person a tax at the
rate of 5% on the amount paid for meals purchased from any food establishment,
whether prepared in such food establishment or not, and whether consumed on the
premises or not.
(1996 Code, § 148-55) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.118 COLLECTION BY SELLER.
   (A)   Every person receiving any payment for food with respect to which a
tax is levied hereunder shall collect and remit the amount of the tax imposed
by this subchapter from the person on whom the same is levied or from the
person paying for such food at the time payment for such food is made;
provided, however, that no blind person operating a vending stand or other
business enterprise under the jurisdiction of the Department for the Visually
Handicapped and located on property acquired and used by the United States for
any military or navel purpose shall be required to collect or remit such taxes.
   (B)   All tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-56) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.119 EXEMPTIONS; LIMITS ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall not be levied on the
following items when served exclusively for off-premises consumption:
      (1)   Factory-prepackaged candy, gum, nuts and other items of essentially
the same nature;
      (2)   Factory-prepackaged donuts, ice cream, crackers, nabs, chips,
cookies and items of essentially the same nature;
      (3)   Food sold in bulk. For the purposes of this provision, a BULK SALE
shall mean the sale of any item that would exceed the normal, customary and
usual portion sold for on-premises consumption (e.g., a whole cake, a gallon of
ice cream); a bulk sale shall not include any food or beverage that is catered
or delivered by a food establishment for off-premises consumption;
      (4)   Alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages sold in factory-sealed
containers;
      (5)   Any food or food product purchased with food coupons issued by the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Food Stamp Program or drafts
issued through the State Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants
and Children; and
      (6)   Any food or food product purchased for home consumption as defined
in the Federal Food Stamp Act of 1977, 7 U.S.C. § 2012, as amended, except hot
food or hot food products ready for immediate consumption. For the purposes of
administering the tax levied hereunder, the following items, whether or not
purchased for immediate consumption, are excluded from the said definition of
“food” in the Federal Food Stamp Act: sandwiches; salad bar items sold from a
salad bar; prepackaged single-serving salads consisting primarily of an
assortment of vegetables; and nonfactory sealed beverages.
   (B)   A grocery store, supermarket or convenience store shall not be subject
to the tax except for any portion or section therein designated as a
delicatessen or designated for the sale of prepared food and beverages.
   (C)   The tax imposed hereunder shall not be levied on the following
purchases of food and beverages:
      (1)   Food and beverages furnished by food establishments to employees as
part of their compensation when no charge is made to the employee;
      (2)   Food and beverages sold by daycare centers, public or private
elementary or secondary schools or food sold by any college or university to
its students or employees;
      (3)   Food and beverages for use or consumption and which are paid for
directly by the commonwealth, any political subdivision of the commonwealth or
the United States;
      (4)   Food and beverages furnished by a hospital, medical clinic,
convalescent home, nursing home, home for the aged, infirm, handicapped,
battered women, narcotic addicts or alcoholics, or other extended-care facility
to patients or residents thereof;
      (5)   Food and beverages furnished by a public or private nonprofit
charitable organization or establishment that contracts with the appropriate
agency of the commonwealth to offer meals at concession prices to elderly,
infirm, blind, handicapped or needy persons in their houses or at central
locations;
      (6)   Food and beverages sold on an occasional basis, (not exceeding four
times per calendar year), by a nonprofit educational, charitable or benevolent
organization, church or religious body as a fund-raising activity, the gross
proceeds of which are to be used by such organization exclusively for nonprofit
educational, charitable, benevolent or religious purposes; and
      (7)   Food and beverages sold through vending machines.
(1996 Code, § 148-57) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.120 GRATUITIES; SERVICES CHARGES.
   (A)   Where a purchaser provides a gratuity for an employee of a seller, and
the amount of the gratuity is wholly in the discretion of the purchaser, the
gratuity is not subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, whether paid in
cash to the employee or added to the bill and charged to the purchaser’s
account, provided that in the latter case, the full amount of the gratuity is
turned over to the employee by the seller.
   (B)   An amount or percent, whether designated as a gratuity, tip or service
charge, that is added to the price of the food and beverages by the seller, and
required to be paid by the purchaser, as a part of the selling price of the
food and beverages is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-58) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.121 REPORT; REMITTANCE OF TAXES; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person required by this subchapter to
pay to the town the taxes imposed by this subchapter to make a report thereof
setting forth such information as the Town Clerk may prescribe and require,
including all purchases taxable under this subchapter, the amount charged the
purchaser for each such purchase, the date thereof, the taxes collected thereon
and the amount of tax required to be collected by this subchapter.
   (B)   Such person shall sign and deliver such report to the Town Clerk with
remittance of the taxes collected, less any discount as provided below in §
32.122, by the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the
taxes are collected. Such records shall be kept and preserved by such person
for a period of five years. The Town Clerk or his or her duly authorized agents
shall have the power to examine such records at reasonable times and without
unreasonable interference with the business of such person, for the purpose of
administering and enforcing the provisions of this subchapter and to make
transcripts of all or any parts thereof.
(1996 Code, § 148-59) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.122 DISCOUNT.
   For the purpose of compensating sellers for the collection of the tax
imposed by this subchapter, every seller shall be allowed 5% of the amount of
tax due and accounted for in the form of a deduction on his or her monthly
return, provided that the amount due is not delinquent at the time of payment.
(1996 Code, § 148-60) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.123 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   If any person whose duty it is to do so shall fail or refuse to make the
report or remit the tax required by this subchapter within the time and in the
amount required, there shall be added by the Town Clerk to the amount of tax
due, a penalty in the amount of 10% per annum, which shall be computed upon the
tax and penalty from the date such were due and payable.
(1996 Code, § 148-61) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.124 FAILURE TO COLLECT.
   If any person whose duty it is to do so shall fail or refuse to collect the
tax imposed under this subchapter or to make timely report and remittance
thereof, the Town Clerk shall proceed in such manner as is practicable to
obtain facts and information on which to base an estimate of the tax due. As
soon as the Town Clerk has procured whatever facts and information may be
obtainable, upon which to base the assessment of any tax payable by any person
who has failed to collect, report or remit such tax, the Town Clerk shall
proceed to determine and assess against such person the tax, penalty and
interest provided in this subchapter, and shall notify the person by registered
mail sent to his or her last known address, of the amount of such tax, penalty
and interest. The total amount thereof shall be due and payable ten days after
the date such notice is sent.
(1996 Code, § 148-62) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.125 TERMINATION OR DISPOSITION OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any person required to collect and remit to the town any tax
imposed by this subchapter shall cease, to operate or otherwise dispose of his
or her business, the tax shall immediately become due and payable, and the
person shall make a report and remittance thereof to the Town Clerk by the
first day of the month following the date on which said business was terminated
or disposition made thereof.
(1996 Code, § 148-63) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.126 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to ascertain the name of every
seller in the town who is liable for the collection of the tax imposed by this
subchapter, and any person who fails, refuses or neglects to collect such tax
or to make the reports and remittances required by this subchapter. The Town
Clerk may have issued a summons for such person, and the summons may be served
upon such person in the manner provided by law, and the Town Clerk may seek a
conviction in the General District Court of the county, or civil remedy,
including injunction, against such person.
   (B)   In the event that the purchaser of any meal refuses to pay the tax
imposed by this subchapter, the seller may call upon the Sheriff’s Department
for assistance; and the investigating Sheriff or his or her Deputy may, when
probable cause exists, issue the purchaser a summons for his or her violation
returnable to the General District Court as provided by law.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall have the power and duty of collecting the tax
imposed and levied hereunder and shall cause the same to be paid into the
general treasury for the town.
(1996 Code, § 148-64) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.127 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Clerk may issue regulations for administration and enforcement of
this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 148-66) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.128 COPIES ON FILE.
   Certified copies of this subchapter and all amendments thereto shall be
filed in the offices of the Town Clerk.
(1996 Code, § 148-67) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For §§
32.020 through
32.029.
      (1)   Any purchaser failing, refusing or neglecting to pay the tax
imposed or levied by §§
32.020 through
32.029 and any seller violating the provisions of §§
32.020 through
32.029 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine set by
Council from time to time or by imprisonment in jail for not more than three
months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Each failure, refusal, neglect or violation and each day’s
continuance thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Such conviction shall not relieve any person from payment,
collection and remittance of such tax as provided in §§
32.020 through
32.029.
(1996 Code, § 148-15)
   (C)   For §§
32.055 through
32.064. Anyone found guilty of willfully violating any section of §§
32.055 through
32.064:
      (1)   Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine in
an amount set by Council from time to time; and
      (2)   Will no longer be eligible to receive benefits from §§
32.055 through
32.064.
(1996 Code, § 148-30)
   (D)   For §§
32.075 through
32.078. Non-delinquent taxes, whether real or personal, paid on or before
December 5 of the current tax year may be paid without any penalty. A late fee
of 3% of the base tax shall be imposed for any taxes paid between December 5 of
the current tax year and January 20 of the subsequent tax year. A late penalty
of 7% of the base tax shall be imposed for any taxes paid between January 21
and April 15 of the subsequent tax year. An additional penalty of 15.0% of the
base tax shall be imposed for any taxes paid on or after April 16 of the
subsequent tax year. In addition to the aforesaid late fee and penalty, any
delinquent tax shall accrue interest at the maximum rate per year allowed under
the Code of Virginia, as amended, until paid in full. (For reference, as of the
date of the adoption of Ord. passed 5-12-2015, VA Code § 58.1-3916, as amended,
allows a maximum rate of 10% per year.) Should judgment through any court be
pursued and granted, the town shall be entitled to attorney fees of $500 for
the services of its attorney handling the matter, plus court costs and interest
as provided herein. Town Council reserves the right to address special
situations, such as, for example, undue hardship, medical considerations and
the like, and may waive late fees, penalties and/or interest on a case-by-case
basis. Each such case must be documented, including the specific reasons for
deviating from the provisions herein and the specific amount waived.
(1996 Code, § 148-34)
   (E)   For §§
32.090 through
32.103.
      (1)   Any person willfully failing or refusing to file a return as
required under §§
32.090 through
32.103 shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
except that any person failing to file such a return shall be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor if the amount of tax lawfully assessed in connection with the
return is $1,000 or less. Any person violating or failing to comply with any
other provision of §§
32.090 through
32.103 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (E)(1) above, any corporate or
partnership officer, as defined in VA Code § 58.1-3906, or any other person
required to collect, account for or pay over the meals tax imposed under §§
32.090 through
32.103, who willfully evades or attempts to evade such tax or payment thereof,
shall, in addition to any other penalties imposed by law, be guilty of a Class
1 misdemeanor.
      (3)   Each violation of or failure to comply with §§
32.090 through
32.103 shall constitute a separate offense. Conviction of any such violation
shall not relieve any person from the payment, collection or remittance of the
tax as provided in §§
32.090 through
32.103.
(1996 Code, § 148-50)
   (F)   For §§
32.115 through
32.128.
      (1)   Any person willfully failing or refusing to file a return as
required under §§
32.115 through
32.128 shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
except that any person failing to file such a return shall be guilty of a Class
3 misdemeanor if the amount of tax lawfully assessed in connection with the
return is $1,000 or less. Any person violating or failing to comply with any
other provision of §§
32.115 through
32.128 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(1) above, any corporate or
partnership officer, as defined in VA Code § 58.1-3906, or any other person
required to collect, account for or pay over the meals tax imposed under §§
32.115 through
32.128, who willfully evades or attempts to evade such tax or payment thereof,
shall, in addition to any other penalties imposed by law, be guilty of a Class
1 misdemeanor.
      (3)   Each violation of or failure to comply with this subchapter shall
constitute a separate offense. Conviction of any such violation shall not
relieve any person from the payment, collection or remittance of the tax as
provided in §§
32.115 through
32.128.
(1996 Code, § 148-65)
(Ord. passed 5-12-2015)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
   §
1   Transient Occupancy Tax Filing Form
   §
2   Meals Tax Filing Form
§ 1 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FILING FORM.
TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE, VA
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
FILING FORM
FOR MONTH __________       YEAR ________
1.   GROSS RENTAL REVENUE FOR THE
MONTH.................................   $___________
2.   5% OF GROSS RENTAL
REVENUES...............................................   $___________
3.   AMOUNT RETAINED BY RENTAL AGENT FOR COLLECTION FEE:
                     Line 2 multiplied by
5%..................................   $___________
4.   AMOUNT TO BE REMITTED (Line two minus line
three).......................   $___________
FIRM REMITTING TAX: ________________________________________
*DATE REMITTED: __________      SIGNED: ____________________________________
*Tax must be remitted by 20th of each month following collection, in order to
retain 5% collection fee.
TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE, VA
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
FILING FORM
FOR MONTH __________       YEAR ________
1.   GROSS RENTAL REVENUE FOR THE
MONTH.................................   $___________
2.   5% OF GROSS RENTAL
REVENUES...............................................   $___________
3.   AMOUNT RETAINED BY RENTAL AGENT FOR COLLECTION FEE:
                     Line 2 multiplied by
5%..................................   $___________
4.   AMOUNT TO BE REMITTED (Line two minus line
three).......................   $___________
FIRM REMITTING TAX: ________________________________________
*DATE REMITTED: __________      SIGNED: ____________________________________
*Tax must be remitted by 20th of each month following collection, in order to
retain 5% collection fee.
TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE, VA
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
FILING FORM
FOR MONTH __________       YEAR ________
1.   GROSS RENTAL REVENUE FOR THE
MONTH.................................   $___________
2.   5% OF GROSS RENTAL
REVENUES...............................................   $___________
3.   AMOUNT RETAINED BY RENTAL AGENT FOR COLLECTION FEE:
                     Line 2 multiplied by
5%..................................   $___________
4.   AMOUNT TO BE REMITTED (Line two minus line
three).......................   $___________
FIRM REMITTING TAX: ________________________________________
*DATE REMITTED: __________      SIGNED: ____________________________________
*Tax must be remitted by 20th of each month following collection, in order to
retain 5% collection fee.
(1996 Code, § 148-Att-A)
§ 2   MEALS TAX FILING FORM.
Town of Independence, Virginia
Meals Tax
Filing Form
For Month __________________      Year _______________
1.   Gross Food Sales for the Month                     $__________
2.   5% of Gross Food Sales                           $__________
3.   Amount Retained by Food Sales Agent for Collection Fee:
                  Line 2 multiplied by 5%             $___________
4.   Amount To Be Remitted (Line two minus line three)      $___________
Firm Remitting Tax: _____________________________
*Date Remitted: ____________      Signed:
_______________________________________
*Tax must be remitted by 20th of each month following collection, in order to
retain 5% collection fee.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Disposal and Collection
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Preparation and storage
   
50.03   Collection practices
   
50.04   Service fee
   
50.05   Littering
   
50.06   Collection of solid waste
Recycling
   
50.20   Purpose
   
50.21   Definitions
   
50.22   Collection practice
   
50.23   Service fee
   
50.24   Recycling required
   
50.25   Alternate methods of disposal
   
50.26   Liability for noncompliance
DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE WASTES. Solid wastes resulting from the production of farm or
agricultural products before processing.
   ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible material.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All solid waste emanating from establishments engaged in
business. The category includes but is not limited to solid waste resulting
from the operation of stores, markets, office buildings, restaurants, shopping
centers, theaters, trailer courts or camps and others.
   DISPOSAL. The storage, collection, disposal or handling of refuse.
   GARBAGE. All waste and accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter
that attends or results from the preparation, use, handling, cooking, serving
or storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter of any nature
whatsoever which is subject to decay, putrefaction and the generation of
noxious and offensive gases or odors or which may serve as breeding or feeding
material for flies and/or other germ-carrying insects.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those materials which, because of their inherent nature
and/or quantities, require special handling during disposal to avoid creating
environmental damage or hazards to public health and safety. HAZARDOUS WASTE
includes but is not limited to such items as petroleum wastes; paints,
plastics; explosives; acid; caustics; chemicals; poisons; drugs; radioactive
materials; asbestos fibers; imported wool fibers; pathogenic wastes from
hospitals, sanatoriums, nursing homes, clinics and veterinary hospitals; wastes
from slaughterhouses, poultry plants and the like. (Residential solid waste
normally contains some hazardous waste materials, but because such materials
are usually present in very small quantities, their safe disposal either in a
sanitary landfill or incinerator presents no special problem. Therefore,
residential waste is not considered to be hazardous within the mean of
HAZARDOUS WASTE as used in this chapter.)
   INERT WASTE. Concrete, tile, bricks, ash, rubble, building materials,
appliances, refrigerators, freezers, stoves, washers, dryers, tires, machinery,
metals and other like inert material.
   INSTITUTIONAL WASTE. All solid waste emanating from institutions, such as
but not limited to hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages, schools and
universities or colleges, public or private, apartments or multi-family
buildings.
   LANDFILL. The depository for solid waste which, from time to time, shall be
approved by all state and local governmental agencies and authorities for the
receipt of solid waste described in this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof upon or in which refuse is stored
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except body wastes, and shall include garbage,
ashes and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL APPROVED CONTAINERS. Any approved tied plastic bags and/or
plastic galvanized metal trash cans, not to exceed 32 gallons or 40 pounds for
residential waste.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Solid wastes resulting from household wastes.
   RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY. The legally designated authority of the town so
authorized and directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   SEWAGE.  Human excrement, kitchen, laundry, shower, lavatory or industrial
wastes as may be present from residences, buildings, vehicles, industrial
establishments or other places.
   TRASH. Accumulation of rubbish, such as but not necessarily limited to
sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, jars or other waste materials of any kind which
are usually attendant to domestic households or housekeeping and the premises
upon which said households are located. Accumulations of lawn, grass or
shrubbery cuttings, clippings and dry leaf rakings, small tree branches (shall
not exceed four feet in length and three inches in diameter), bushes or shrubs,
green leaf cuttings, fruits or other matter usually created as refuse in the
care of lawns and yards, except large branches, trees or bulky or
noncombustible materials not susceptible to normal loading and collection in
load-packer-type sanitation equipment used for regular collections from
domestic households. Tree trimmings shall be tied in bundles not exceeding four
feet in length and weighing over 60 pounds and shall be placed at the curb for
pickup.
(1996 Code, § 135-1)
§ 50.02 PREPARATION AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Preparation of refuse.
      (1)   All refuse shall be drained free of excess liquids before disposal.
      (2)   Garbage shall be placed in approved containers and placed in
designated areas for collection.
      (3)   Rubbish, which includes grass clippings, hedge trimmings, leaves
and pine needles, must be placed in plastic bags.
   (B)   Solid waste containers.
      (1)   Residential. Solid waste containers for door-to-door residential
collection shall not be more than 32 gallons and constructed of galvanized
metal or plastic and shall have a close-fitted lid with handles. Cans must be
constructed with no inside baffles to facilitate discharge of solid waste.
Maximum weight of any one container shall not exceed 40 pounds. Plastic bags
shall be tied and not contain liquids, sharp objects nor exceed 32 gallons or
weigh more than 40 pounds.
      (2)   Commercial and institutional. Whenever the volume of garbage and/or
trash exceeds an average weekly gross weight of 240 pounds or 192 gallons
barring any consecutive four-week period or whenever so required by the
responsible authority, the commercial and institutional patron shall use a bulk
container. Containers for businesses and institutions shall be and include any
detachable metal container designed or intended to be mechanically dumped into
a packer-type truck used by the collector and varying in size from two to eight
cubic yards.
   (C)   Storage.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to place solid waste in any street, alley,
road, stream, body of water or other public place, or upon private property,
unless it is for the purpose of authorized collection, is in approved
containers and is placed not more than 24 hours prior to the next scheduled
pickup of such waste.
      (2)   Solid waste receptacles shall not be placed on public streets or
sidewalks in such manner as to inhibit pedestrian or vehicular traffic but
shall be located as near the public streets or alleys as possible to provide
easy access by the collector.
(1996 Code, § 135-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Frequency of collection.
      (1)   Once a week for residential.
      (2)   Motels, restaurants, institutions and commercial establishments may
require more frequent collection, if determined by the governing body or the
Health Department to be essential to protect the health of the public. Sanitary
storage of refuse shall be required.
   (B)   Location of wastes. Location of all solid wastes, both residential and
commercial, shall be placed at a location, prior to scheduled collection, that
is readily accessible to the collectors personnel.
      (1)   Residential. Garbage must be in approved receptacles which shall be
placed at a single collection point. Trash must be in approved receptacles or
tied in bundles as described herein and placed at a single collection point
within three feet of the curb.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial. Bulk containers shall be kept on the
premises in a place near the street, readily accessible to the collection
vehicles. Noncontainerized businesses shall have refuse in approved receptacles
which shall be placed at a single collection point readily accessible to the
collection crew and vehicle.
   (C)   Licensing of collectors.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm who does not possess a
current license from the town to engage in the business of solid waste
collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall
issue permits to such applicants. Such permits shall be limited to persons or
firms having proper equipment and personnel to collect and dispose of refuse in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The fee for such license shall be set by Council from time to time
per annum and all licenses shall be issued for the calendar year, or such part
thereof as shall remain after the issuance. There shall be no reduction in the
fee for a license issued after the beginning of any calendar year. The fee
shall be paid to and receipted by the town. The permit shall be issued by the
appointed agent.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to permit an unlicensed collector to collect
or remove refuse or solid waste from a household, institution or commercial
enterprise.
   (D)   Collection vehicles.
      (1)   All vehicles used by the town or licensees for collection of solid
waste shall be equipped with enclosed cargo spaces.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to collect, haul, transport or convey solid
waste or garbage in open, unenclosed vehicles except from one’s own residence
directly to the landfill.
(1996 Code, § 135-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Residential collection. Each residential unit in the town shall pay a
monthly fee set by Council from time to time for not more than four solid waste
containers as described in §
50.02. An additional fee set by Council from time to time per container above
four shall be imposed. Application for collection of additional containers
shall be made in advance, and the additional containers shall be labeled with
appropriate decals supplied by the town. Service fees for solid waste pickup
shall be billed with the water/sewer statement on a monthly basis. Those
residential units in town not connected to the water or sewer system shall
receive a monthly statement for the solid waste collection service.
   (B)   Commercial collection. A fee set by Council from time to time per
month shall be imposed for the collection from commercial establishments for
solid waste, weight and volume of which shall not exceed 160 pounds or 128
gallons per week. A fee set by Council from time to time per 32-gallon or 40-
pound container shall be imposed for solid waste collected in excess of this
limit. Solid waste in excess of the maximum limit will be collected only after
the applicant has obtained and displayed a permit issued by the town. The cost
of the permit shall be set by Council from time to time per container for each
container exceeding the maximum limit.
   (C)   Institutional collection. A fee set by Council from time to time for
each eight-cubic-yard container collected and a fee set by Council from time to
time for each six-cubic-yard container collected shall be imposed.
   (D)   Nonprofit and fraternal organizations shall be charged a monthly rate
equal to the residential rate of $5 per month.
   (E)   Small business collection. Each small business in the town shall pay a
monthly fee set by Council from time to time. There is a limit of no more than
four 30-gallon containers picked up per week. A fee set by Council from time to
time shall be charged per bag over the four-bag limit per week.
   (F)   Delinquencies. Failure to pay the service fee on or before the penalty
date shall constitute a default, and a service fee of 5% per month shall be
imposed on all delinquent accounts.
(1996 Code, § 135-4)
§ 50.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Unlawful. Littering is unlawful in the following areas:
      (1)   Any street or road side; and
      (2)   Public property, federally-, state-, county- or town-owned.
   (B)   Private responsibility. The owner or the occupant of any premises
within the town shall be responsible for sanitary conditions of the premises
occupied by him or her, and it will be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or allow to be placed or deposited on his or her premises any solid
waste, except as designated by the terms of this subchapter.
   (C)   Citizen responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
solid waste on any property except at a state-approved solid waste disposal
site.
      (1)   Owners of property within the town shall remove therefrom any and
all trash, garbage, refuse, litter and other substance which might endanger the
health or safety of other residents of the town or, whoever the responsible
authority deems it necessary, after reasonable notice, have such trash, refuse
and litter and other like substances likely to endanger the health of other
residents of the town removed by its own agents or employees, in which event
the cost or expense thereafter shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of
such property and may be collected by the town as taxes and levies are
collected.
      (2)   The owners of vacant lots or land within the town shall cut the
grass, weeds and other growth on such property or any part thereof at such time
or times as the responsible authority shall prescribe or may, whenever the town
deems it necessary after reasonable notice, have such grass, weeds or other
growth cut by the agents or employees of the town, in which event the cost and
expense thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of such property
and may be collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
   (D)   Inert waste collected. Inert waste as defined in §
50.01 shall be collected from time to time on separate collection days only in
accordance with special requirements which may from time to time be promulgated
by the responsible authority. No additional service fee shall be imposed for
the scheduled collection of inert waste.
(1996 Code, § 135-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The county shall collect municipal solid waste (“MSW”), as defined
under the regulations to the State Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”)
from the residents of the town and then transport such solid waste to the
Authority for disposal either directly or through a contractor.
      (1)   The county shall comply with the regulations of DEQ and the
statutes of the commonwealth in the collection and transportation of such waste
and with the rules and regulations of the Authority as may from time to time
either be imposed by statute or regulation governing the operation and
licensing of the Authority Landfill or, if not imposed, as duly adopted by the
Authority and as the same are hereafter amended. The rules and regulations of
the Authority and all amendments hereafter adopted by the Authority as required
by the regulatory agencies are hereby made a part of this agreement and
enforceable as if fully set forth herein. MSW not conforming to such rules and
regulations shall not be collected by the county.
      (2)   In addition to the residential services described above, the county
shall provide also the following:
         (a)   A dumpster of not less than eight cubic yard capacity at the
town’s facilities located on Hwy 21 N., and shall weekly collect, transport and
dispose of all MSW placed in said dumpster; and
         (b)   Shall collect, operate and maintain a recycling effort for the
town in accordance and consistent with the adopted county solid waste
ordinance. The county shall be compensated for providing the services described
in division (A) above as provided in division (D) below. The county shall be
responsible for providing all equipment, labor, labor-related expenses,
materials, fuel and maintenance incurred in providing this service and shall
pay all tipping fees, disposal fees and any and all other expenses incurred in
providing this service.
   (B)   The collection of such MSW shall be by pickup of MSW left on state
highway right-of-way in front of or near private residences within town limits
at such places as designated by the county. Additionally, the county will
arrange the pickup and disposal of large items and recycling in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the county for county residents not living in
the town, as well as providing services stated in division (A) above. The
county will not accept, transport or dispose of waste, even if MSW, originating
from commercial enterprises or waste generated by special events in the town.
The county’s sole obligation under the terms of this agreement is to collect,
transport and dispose of MSW originating in private residences within town
limits (the “acceptable MSW”). Title to such acceptable MSW shall pass to the
county upon collection by the county.
   (C)   Under no circumstances will the county accept, transport or dispose of
hazardous waste, prohibited waste, tires or special waste as those terms are
defined either by DEQ regulations or the Authority’s rules and regulations,
waste from any commercial enterprise or any waste not acceptable for disposal
at the landfill operated by the authority. Should the county discover that it
has, inadvertently, collected such waste, it will notify the town, and it will
be dealt with in the same manner that the county deals with a person or persons
disposing of such materials under the county ordinance (i.e., the county will
deal directly with the person or persons so disposing of said materials). The
town does not assume any responsibility for the improper disposal of materials
by town residents.
   (D)   As compensation for the services specified in this agreement, town
will pay to the county the annual sum of $62,972. Such amount shall be payable
in monthly installments of $5,247.67. The first installment shall be due and
payable on October 20, 2009, with each installment due on or before the
twentieth day of each month thereafter. Payments will be made by check or bank
transfer to the county. Failure to make payment by the twentieth of each month
shall require the town to pay a late charge to the county of 1.5% of the amount
due and failure to pay within 60 days of the date due will entitle the
authority to suspend acceptance of waste from the town until payment issues are
resolved or terminate this agreement with the penalty payable as herein
provided from the town to the county.
   (E)   This agreement shall be valid for an initial term of five years;
provided, however, that either party may terminate and end this agreement,
without further liability or penalty upon 180 days’ written notice. Termination
by either party without such advance notice will require the terminating party
to pay a penalty to the other of $15,743 representing the notice period,
provided further that either party may suspend compliance with the terms of
this agreement but not terminate this agreement in the event of force majeure,
or the occurrence of any other event which due to acts of God, natural
disasters or enforcement actions of regulatory entities, including DEQ, render
it practically impossible for either party to comply with the terms of this
agreement. In addition to any penalty imposed herein, any party in breach of
this agreement shall be required to pay any attorney fees incurred by the other
party to collect any penalty or enforce any provision of this agreement
   (F)   On or before January 1, 2013, the parties hereto agree to negotiate in
good faith the extension of this agreement for an additional term. It is
understood by the parties hereto that the rates as established hereunder will
likely increase for such additional term(s) due to increase of costs and
expenses.
   (G)   This agreement shall not be assigned or transferred, and neither party
hereto may permit the assignment or transfer of this agreement or the rights
and/or obligations hereunder, provided, however, that the county may contract
with a third party for the provisions of collection and transportation of waste
has herein provided.
      (1)   This agreement shall not be modified, altered, changed or amended
in any respect unless in writing and signed by all parties hereto.
      (2)   This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the commonwealth.
      (3)   This agreement shall extend to and be binding upon the successors
and assigns of the respective parties hereto.
      (4)   This agreement represents the entire agreement between the parties
hereto on the matters contained herein and shall supersede all prior
agreements, oral or written on such matters.
      (5)   This agreement shall become effective on October 1, 2009, and all
dates, benefits and requirements hereunder shall commence on that date.
   (H)   All notices, billings or other communications to be given hereunder
shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed by first class mail,
addressed as follows:
   To County: County Administrator
   County of Grayson P.O. Box 217
   Independence, Virginia 24348
   To the Town: Town Manager
   Town of Independence P.O. Box 99
   Independence, VA 24348
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 PURPOSE.
   The general purpose of this subchapter is the furtherance of effective solid
waste management and the recycling of solid waste as provided for in VA Code §
10.1-1411 and as authorized by VA Code § 15.2-933.
(1996 Code, § 135-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All solid waste emanating from establishments engaged in
business. The category includes but is not limited to solid waste resulting
from the operation of stores, markets, office buildings, restaurants, shopping
centers, theaters, trailer courts or camps, multifamily dwellings of more than
three units, and others.
   RECYCLING. The process of separating a given waste material from the waste
stream and processing it so that it is used again as raw material for a
product, which may or may not be similar to the original product.
(Ord. passed - -)
   SOLID WASTE.  Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material, resulting
from industrial, commercial, residential, mining and agricultural operations or
community activities but does not include solid or dissolved material in
domestic sewage, solid or dissolved material in irrigation return flows or in
industrial discharges which are sources subject to a permit from the State
Water Control Board or source, special nuclear or by-product material as
defined by the Federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et
seq. as amended.
(1996 Code, § 135-8)
§ 50.22 COLLECTION PRACTICE.
   (A)   Commercial and industrial. All businesses generating in excess of two
cubic yards of solid waste per week, mobile home parks, and rental properties
containing more than three rental units must use a private hauler to collect
all solid waste, whether it be from a dumpster or can collection service. All
dumpsters and other solid waste containers must be equipped with properly
functioning lids and maintained so that no solid waste material can escape the
dumpster or container. Dumpsters or solid waste containers are the property and
responsibility of the private hauler but in the case that a dumpster or solid
waste container is not in compliance with this section the business owner will
be contacted. It will then be the responsibility of that owner to contact the
hauler to have the dumpster or solid waste container repaired or replaced.
   (B)   Dumpster standards. 
      (1)   Dumpsters shall be placed in a location that is clearly accessible
to the servicing vehicle.
      (2)   Lids must be operational and closed at all times.
      (3)   All dumpsters shall be screened if and to the extent that, in the
absence of screening, they would be clearly visible to:
         (a)   Persons located within any dwelling unit on residential
property; or
         (b)   Occupants, customers, or other invitees located within any
building on nonresidential property other than where the dumpster is located;
or
         (c)   Persons traveling on any public street, sidewalk or other public
way.
      (4)   When dumpster screening is required under this section, screening
shall be on three sides with a six-foot opaque screen of masonry, brick, stone
or architectural block (that matches building’s architecture), wood fencing, or
other opaque materials approved by the zoning administrator. The fourth side
shall be equipped with an opaque gate capable of being latched and of not less
than six feet in height.
      (5)   Dumpster enclosures shall not be located in front of the main
building unless approved by the Zoning Administrator. Prior to beginning
construction, a site plan for the enclosure must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for review.
      (6)   Dumpster enclosures shall be maintained in a structurally sound and
attractive manner.
      (7)   Within the central business district reasonable exceptions to the
enclosure requirements may be granted if in the Zoning Administrator’s
discretion, circumstances warrant such exemption.
      (8)   Any enclosure that is in existence at the time of the adoption of
this ordinance may remain unless:
         (a)   It is determined by the Zoning Administrator that the enclosure
is in such disrepair that it must be replaced; or
         (b)   The owner chooses to replace the enclosure; or
         (c)   The enclosure is damaged by any causality to an extent exceeding
50% of the structure. In any such case, the enclosure must be replaced to meet
the guidelines of this section.
   (C)   Dumpster regulations by district.
      (1)   Regulations shall apply to all residential and commercial districts
as described in this chapter.
      (2)   Regulations shall only apply in industrial districts where uses are
considered residential and/or commercial.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.23 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall establish a service fee for garbage collection
each fiscal year and the fee shall be present within the town’s annual budget
ordinance. The garbage service fee shall be billed with the monthly water and
sewer bill.
   (B)   Delinquencies. Failure to pay the service fee on or before the penalty
date shall constitute a default, and a service fee of 5% per month shall be
imposed on all delinquent accounts.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.24 RECYCLING REQUIRED.
   All residences and businesses, whether not operated for profit, shall
separate and make available for collection and recycling such categories of
waste as will be designated by the Council of the town. The means by which this
requirement will be implemented shall be prescribed by the Council of the town.
(1996 Code, § 135-9)
§ 50.25 ALTERNATE METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
   This subchapter shall not affect the right of any person to sell or
otherwise dispose of waste material as provided in VA Code § 15.2-933 or
permitted under any other law of the commonwealth.
(1996 Code, § 135-10)
§ 50.26 LIABILITY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   This subchapter shall not impose any liability upon any apartment or
commercial office building owner or manager for failure of tenants to comply
with any provisions of this subchapter adopted pursuant to this section or upon
any waste hauler for failure of its customers to comply with this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 135-11)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Regulations
   
51.01   Connection required
   
51.02   Application for connection; construction of service pipe
   
51.03   Use of private water systems
   
51.04   Size of connections
   
51.05   Wrongful connection
   
51.06   Right of inspection
   
51.07   Unauthorized persons turning on and off water
   
51.08   Tampering with waterworks
   
51.09   Steam boilers
   
51.10   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.11   Damages to property due to water pressure
   
51.12   Water rates
   
51.13   Maintenance of pipe lines; inspection and approval
   
51.14   Guidelines for service
   
51.15   Use of hydrants
   
51.16   Damage; violations; liability
   
51.17   Charitable organizations
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.30   Adoption of standards by reference
   
51.31   Definitions
   
51.32   Inspections
   
51.33   Discontinuance of service
   
51.34   Protection from contamination; enforcement
Drought Response and Contingency Plan
   
51.45   Authority to declare water emergencies
   
51.46   Publication of declaration
   
51.47   Water use considerations
   
51.48   Limitation of restrictions
   
51.49   Water conservation measures
   
51.50   Notification of end of water emergency
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All residents and businesses of the town shall be required to be connected
to a public water system approved and licensed by the State Department of
Health, unless the owner meets the requirements listed in § 51.03.
(1996 Code, § 172-1) (Ord. passed 4-9-2024) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION; CONSTRUCTION OF SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   When any person, owing property along the line of any water main,
shall desire the introduction of water into his or her premises, he or she
shall make a written application therefor to the Town Council. Such application
shall be accompanied by a connection fee as set forth, the name of the
applicant, the location and description of the property into which the water is
to be introduced and the purpose for which the water is to be used.
   (B)   The town shall thereupon cause to be constructed at the expense of the
town, a service pipe leading from said water main to the property line nearest
said main where tap is to be introduced, unless the connection has been
previously made. For turning on water again after it has been cut off for
nonpayment, there shall be a charge as set by Council from time to time,
payable in advance. There shall be a charge as set by Council from time to
time, in advance for all temporary connections.
(1996 Code, § 172-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 USE OF PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   The owner of each and every property with improvements designed for plumbing
abutting in any manner upon a street or alley through which runs a public water
main, or through whose land a public water main runs, shall be required to
connect the improvements with such water main and discontinue the use of
private water systems or sources, provided that such connection is technically
feasible and will not require a private line of more than 250 feet in length,
in which event the property owner may be excused from the necessity of such
connection in the discretion of the Town Council, if an approved water system
is constructed and maintained according to the current standards of the State
Health Department.
(1996 Code, § 172-3) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SIZE OF CONNECTIONS.
   In tapping the mains for service pipes, no pipe of greater than three-
quarter inch diameter shall be used unless the owner of the property to be
served has agreed in writing to pay the entire cost of the connection.
(1996 Code, § 172-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WRONGFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall introduce, from the town waterworks, water upon any premises
except as provided for in this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 172-5) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   Every person occupying any property into which water is conveyed under this
chapter shall permit any authorized agent of the town to enter such property,
at reasonable hours, to inspect works therein or to see if provisions of this
subchapter have been violated. It is the obligation of the property owner to
provide free and clear access to the meter.
(1996 Code, § 172-6) (Ord. passed 4-9-2024) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS TURNING ON AND OFF WATER.
   No person, firm or corporation shall turn off or cause to be turned off or
on the town water at the curb stop cock box; or meter box; or remove or replace
a water meter or to make any connection, connecting the town water with the
house service after a meter has been removed or to make any connection around a
meter or to otherwise disturb, deface, remove or change any portion of the town
water system, other than under authority of the town, or one of the town’s
authorized personnel while acting in his or her official capacity.
(1996 Code, § 172-7) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS.
   No person shall deface or injure any house, wall, cock wheel, fire hydrant
or other fixtures connected with or pertaining to the waterworks, or deposit
any offensive matter such as sticks, mud or rubbish in said reservoirs, or
place the carcass of any animal or other deleterious substance on the water
sheds or in any stream reservoir, or shall without lawful authority climb over
or get through the enclosure of, or place any building material, rubbish or
other matter upon the stopcock of a street main or service pipe, or obstruct
access to any fixture connected with the waterworks, or remove or injure any
pipe, fire hydrant or cock, or open any of them so as to wastewater; or use the
town water for a purpose for which he or she has neither paid nor obtained a
license to use it.
(1996 Code, § 172-8) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 STEAM BOILERS.
   Steam boilers, taking a supply of water directly from the service pipe,
depending upon hydraulic or hydrostatic pressure in the pipe system in the
waterworks supplying such boilers under pressure are required to have tanks
erected that will contain ample water for supplying such boiler for at least
ten hours, in case the water is cut off for necessary repairs on extensions, as
the town will not be responsible for any accidents or damage to which such
devices are frequently subject.
(1996 Code, § 172-9) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the billing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
Penalty, see §
51.99 (Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 51.11 DAMAGES TO PROPERTY DUE TO WATER PRESSURE.
   The town shall not be liable to any customer for damages caused to his or
her plumbing or property by high pressure, low pressure or fluctuation of the
pressure in the town’s water mains.
(1996 Code, § 172-11)
§ 51.12 WATER RATES.
   Water rates shall be as follows and will be re-set by Council from time to
time.
 
Number of Gallons    Residential ($3.75 Commercial and     Residential Out-of-
Used                 per 1,000 gallons) Industrial ($4.69  Town ($5.63 per
                                        per 1,000 gallons) 1,000 gallons)
0 to 999 (base rate) $10                $15                $15
1,000 to 1,999       $13.75             $17.19             $20.63
2,000 to 2,999       $17.50             $21.88             $26.25
3,000 to 3,999       $21.25             $26.56             $31.88
4,000 to 4,999       $25                $31.25             $37.50
5,000 to 5,999       $28.75             $35.94             $43.13
 
(1996 Code, § 172-12) (Ord. passed 5-16-2007)
§ 51.13 MAINTENANCE OF PIPE LINES; INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pipe lines laid by property owners must be approved before the town
will furnish water through them. Maintenance of said pipe lines: the town shall
have the right to connect other water users with such lines free of cost to
town users.
   (B)   Before the town furnishes water through pipe lines laid by property
owners, said private lines including the size, location and construction must
have been inspected and approved by the town or its authorized representatives.
Whenever the town furnishes water through any privately laid pipe lines, the
town shall maintain such lines so long as it furnishes water through them. In
consideration of such maintenance, the town shall have the right to connect
with said lines and furnish water to such additional consumers through said
lines as the town may determine without charge being made by the owners of said
lines to the town or to the owners of any property connected therewith.
(1996 Code, § 172-13)
§ 51.14 GUIDELINES FOR SERVICE.
   Unless otherwise specified, it shall be assumed these guidelines apply to
three-quarter inch or smaller connections. Any connections over three-quarter
inch will require approval by the Council.
   (A)   Where a building consisting of several units which are not
individually metered is serviced by the town, the property owner is to be
billed directly for said building on a per unit basis plus overage, and it
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to collect from his or her
tenants.
   (B)   If a property changes ownership at a time when there is a delinquent
account against the original owner, the proper legal procedures are to be taken
to collect the amount due.
   (C)   A service deposit shall be required for all new accounts. The service
deposit shall be in an amount equal to the normal charges for three months of
service for the same or similar service, as determined by the Town Manager, or
in his or her absence, the Town Clerk. The service deposit, less any delinquent
water/sewer bills, unpaid water/sewer bills, and late penalties, shall be
refunded to the depositor when the account is closed. After 24 months of
continuous service, without same having been disconnected for delinquent
payment, the service deposit shall be credited to the depositor’s account and
applied to said depositor’s monthly water/sewer bills until same is depleted.
In the discretion of the Town Manager, or in his or her absence, the Town
Clerk, if no service deposit exists for a particular account and said account
becomes delinquent, a service deposit, in the amount provided above, may be
required for said account.
   (D)   Reconnection fees shall be imposed as provided in § 51.10.
   (E)   If a party moves in after the billing period begins (midmonth), it is
to be billed on a pro-rated basis (per day) for the length of time involved
unless the meter reading for the period indicates they have used over the
minimum allowed for one month; it will then be billed for the full minimum
charge plus the overage.
   (F)   If the service is available to a unit serviced by the town system, the
customer will be required to pay the monthly fee. The only exception to this
rule will be a case of illness lasting 30 days or more in which case the
customer would be in a hospital, rest home, nursing home or other such facility
and the unit to which the service is provided would be unoccupied for the
entire period. In such case, the meter bill will still be read at the regular
time and the customer will be billed if the meter shows any usage. In case of
customer death or property vacancy, if the property owner or estate does not
want services at the unit, they may request the services be disconnected and
the meter removed. In such cases, the property owner/estate will be required to
pay a fee set by the Council from time to time to help offset the overhead
costs of maintaining the town’s water system.
   (G)   Bill are to be adjusted by the Maintenance Supervisor (Public Works
Director) only in the following instances:
      (1)   Mistake in meter reading;
      (2)   Mistake in office;
      (3)   Meter determined to be faulty; and
      (4)   Excessive usage determined to be town’s responsibility.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the meter is to be cut off and removed when
property becomes vacant to prevent property from being occupied without the
town’s knowledge.
   (I)   On metered units, it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to
inform tenants of the necessary procedures:
      (1)   To notify the town of name and address;
      (2)   To pay service deposit; and
      (3)   To notify town date property becomes occupied or vacant.
   (J)   When two consecutive requests are received for a meter to be checked
and said checks show no mistake or malfunction, the party shall be charged an
amount set by Council from time to time for the third consecutive check
requested (when, again, no malfunction is shown) and advised in writing of the
findings of the Water Department.
   (K)   All new connections have to be properly plumbed providing for
individual connections (and metering) for each unit before the application for
service will be accepted by the town.
   (L)   A permanent connection will not be made until the final grading is
done.
   (M)   All connections are to be made at the property line (not to extend
beyond) and meters are to be set at the said line.
   (N)   The town has the right to refuse service if it determines that if is
not economically feasible or if service connection is requested on a line
where, in the opinion of the Department, a maximum customer load is already
established and any additional connection would jeopardize service to present
customers.
   (O)   Any one industrial customer within the town may not consume in excess
of 50,000 gallons of water within one operating period of 24 hours, or a
maximum of 250,000 gallons per week without Council approval. If a company
exceeds the stated maximum amount within the 24-hour operating period, a
disconnection notice will be delivered to the violator five hours prior to
disconnection.
   (P)   Written application for service is required before a connection will
be made, and on the form prescribed by the town.
   (Q)   Prescribed connection fees must be paid before connection will be
made.
   (R)   Physical disconnection, by actual removal of any connecting lines,
must be made from any and all other systems
   (S)   The Department will make all connections to its main and will specify
the location and size of all materials entering into service connection.
   (T)   The service connection, and all materials used thereof, including
special connections for fire service or for service of a temporary nature,
shall remain the property of the Department and be under its sole control and
jurisdiction.
   (U)   No fixture shall be attached to, or any branch made in, the service
pipe between the meter and the main street.
   (V)   Any repairs, maintenance, replacement or relocation necessary on the
customer’s premises shall be performed by the customer at his or her expense
and risk.
   (W)   Service may be discontinued by the Water Department after five days’
notice of for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For willful or indifferent waste of water due to any cause;
      (2)   For failure to protect and maintain the service pipe or fixtures on
the property of the customer in a condition satisfactory to the Department;
      (3)   For molesting or tampering by the customer, or others with the
knowledge of the customer, with any meters, connection, service pipe, curb
cock, seal or any other appliance of the Department controlling or regulating
the customer’s water supply;
      (4)   For nonpayment of any account for water supplied, for water
service, or for any fee or charge accruing under these rules and regulations
and the effective schedules of rates; or
      (5)   For violations of any rule or regulation of the department.
(1996 Code, § 172-14) (Ord passed 6-24-2004; Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 51.15 USE OF HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Effective on and after July 1, 1989, it shall be prohibited for anyone
to make unauthorized connections to town fire hydrants.
   (B)   A fee in an amount set by Council from time to time per load will be
charged for water obtained from fire hydrants with approval from the Water
Department. Access to hydrants must be under the supervision of town water
officials.
(1996 Code, § 172-15) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 DAMAGE; VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY.
   All persons shall exercise reasonable care to protect the town water system
from damage. In addition to any other provisions of the town code, should any
person or entity damage or destroy any waterline, tank, meter box, valve, valve
box, fire hydrant, water meter or any accessories thereto, or any other portion
of the town water system, whether intentionally or negligently, or due to
failure to exercise reasonable care, said person or entity shall also be liable
to the town for the full cost of repairing and/or replacing said damaged
property, as well as all incidental expenses incurred, including, by way of
example, excavating and restoration expenses, labor and materials, lost water,
equipment and the like. Unless the person or entity causing said damage is
identified by the town, the owner of the property where the damaged or
destroyed property is located shall be liable for same unless the town
determines, by clear and convincing evidence, that said owner was not the
person or entity causing said damage or destruction.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2014)
§ 51.17 CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish criteria for determining
the allocation of the costs incurred in extending the town’s water and/or
sanitary sewer system to certain entities within the town.
   (B)   The Town Council has considered the benefits of charitable
organizations and the “exempt purposes” they serve as set forth in the I.R.C. §
501(c)(3) and views the services provided by charitable organizations,
nonprofit organizations, and similar entities as being important services
rendered for the benefit of its citizens. Town Council is aware that many
organizations may have not pursued formal recognition as a 501(c)(3) entity,
while still fulfilling these “exempt purposes.” Accordingly, Town Council has
determined that any organization engaged in activities which qualify as “exempt
purposes” under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) will be entitled to be considered for this
discretionary program for the town to pay part or all of the costs associated
with extending the town’s water and/or sanitary sewer system to the lands
serving said organization.
   (C)   To qualify for a reduction or exemption in the actual costs associated
with extending the town’s water and/or sanitary sewer system to the lands
serving said organization, the entity must meet the following program
guidelines.
      (1)   The entity must actually occupy and use the subject real property.
      (2)   The entity must provide proof that it is actually providing one or
more “exempt purposes” as defined above.
      (3)   The entity must provide its current financial records for
inspection and review by the town in determining the entity’s eligibility, and,
given that this is a discretion program involving the expenditure of public
funds, said records will be subject to public inspection.
   (D)   Other factors which the town may consider in determining whether to
grant a reduction or exemption in the actual costs associated with extending
the town’s water and/or sanitary sewer system to the lands serving said
organization, include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Uses of the subject property for emergency community-beneficial
purposes, such as storm shelters, emergency preparedness operations center,
emergency evacuation center and similar emergency-based purposes;
      (2)   Uses of the subject property for assistance to financially
disadvantaged persons, such as soup kitchens and donated clothing storage and
distribution;
      (3)   Uses of the subject property for governmental functions, such as
accommodating public meetings, public hearings, public educational forums and
the like;
      (4)   The anticipated cost of the proposed project; and/or
      (5)   The net financial worth of the entity, excluding the value of the
structure or structures to be connected to the water and/or sewer lines.
   (E)   The determination that the entity is or is not eligible for a
reduction or exemption in the actual costs associated with the proposed
expansion of services, and the amount or percentage of said reduction or
exemption, will be made by the Town Manager (or in his or her absence, by the
Town Council) if the overall project cost, excluding work on the entity’s own
lands, is less than or equal to $5,000, and by Town Council for all projects
exceeding said amount. The decision of the Town Manager is appealable to Town
Council. This is a discretionary program and the decision of the Town Council
is final.
   (F)   If the entity is determined to be eligible for a reduction or
exemption in the actual costs associated with the proposed expansion of
services, the entity must:
      (1)   Provide, at no cost to the town, an easement over the lands of said
entity for the further expansion of the water and/or sanitary sewer system to
the lands of others, where applicable;
      (2)   Repay, on a five-year straight-line depreciation basis, the
remaining amount of said reduction or exemption if the entity sells or
transfers the property to any other party which does not fulfill an “exempt
purpose” within five years of date of the latter of: the completion of the
project; or the actual payment by the town of the entity’s said reduction or
exemption amount. During the said five-year period, the lands and all
improvements thereto of the entity will be subject to a lien for the amount of
said reduction or exemption; and
      (3)   Pay its portion of the total cost in a timely manner. The town
reserves the right to, but is not required to, use a special assessment to
collect the entity’s portion, if any there may be.
(Ord. passed 12-12-2018)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.30 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts by reference12 VAC 5-590-590, Commonwealth Waterworks
Regulations.
(1996 Code, § 172-17)
§ 51.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying pure
water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the rim of the
receptacle.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water system on or available to the premises
other than the waterworks. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from
another purveyor’s waterworks; or water from a source such as wells, lakes or
streams; or process fluids; or used water. They may be polluted or contaminated
or objectionable, or constitute a water source or system over which the water
purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW.  The flow of contaminants, pollutants, process fluids, used water,
untreated waters, chemicals, gases, non-potable waters into any part of a
waterworks.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any approved device, method or type of
construction intended to prevent backflow into a waterworks.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a waterworks.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the consumer’s
premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a waterworks.
   CONTAMINATION. Any introduction into pure water of microorganisms, wastes,
wastewater, undesirable chemicals or gases.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any connection or structural arrangement, direct or
indirect, to the waterworks whereby backflow can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. This is a term derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to health and the adverse effect upon the waterworks.
   DOUBLE-GATE DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly composed of
two single, independently acting check valves including tightly closing shutoff
valves located at each end of the assembly and petcocks and test gauges for
testing the water tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD.  Any condition, device or practice in a waterworks or its
operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and well-being of
the water consumer.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION.  An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous use of two sources of water.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (chemical, physical,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute an unnecessary risk or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material may enter the waterworks or a consumer’s water system.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted which would constitute a health,
pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the waterworks. This includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the waterworks which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams or
irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PURE WATER or POTABLE WATER. Water fit for human consumption and use which
is sanitary and normally free of minerals, organic substances and toxic agents
in excess of reasonable amounts for domestic usage in the area served and
normally adequate in supply for the minimum health requirement of the persons
served.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure, in case of
leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to
the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves
at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-
off valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted
with properly located test cocks. These devices must be of the approved type.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the waterworks,
if a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service connection
means the downstream end of the meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual, or threat of, damage to the
physical properties of the waterworks or a consumer’s water system.
   USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from waterworks to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection.
   WATER PURVEYOR.  An individual, group of individuals, partnership, firm,
association, institution, corporation, municipal corporation, county or
authority which supplies water to any person within this state from or by means
of any waterworks.
   WATERWORKS.  All structures and appliances used in connection with the
collection, storage, purification and treatment of water for drinking or
domestic use and the distribution thereof to the public or residential
consumers as set forth in VA Code § 62.1-45a.
(1996 Code, § 172-18)
§ 51.32 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of
properties served by the waterworks where cross-connection with the waterworks
is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections, based on
potential health hazards involved, shall be established by the town in the
Cross-Connection Control and Backflow Prevention Program as approved by the
State Department of Health.
   (B)   The representatives of the town shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time properties served by a connection to the waterworks of the town
for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems for cross-
connections. Upon request, the owner, or occupants, of property served shall
furnish to the inspection agency pertinent information regarding the piping
system or systems on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal
of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
(1996 Code, § 172-19)
§ 51.33 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The water purveyor may deny or discontinue the water service to a consumer
if the required backflow device is not installed. If it is found that the
device or devices have been removed or bypassed or if a cross-connection exists
on the premises, or if the pressure in the waterworks is lowered below ten psi
gauge, the purveyor shall take positive action to ensure that the waterworks is
adequately protected at all times. Water service to such premises shall not be
restored until the deficiencies have been corrected or eliminated in accordance
with the Commonwealth Waterworks Regulations and to the satisfaction of the
Town Director of Public Works or his or her designated representative.
(1996 Code, § 172-20)
§ 51.34 PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The potable water made available on the properties served by the
waterworks shall be protected from possible contamination or pollution by
enforcement of this subchapter and all applicable plumbing codes or ordinances.
Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and is
not supplied by the potable system must be labeled as “Water Unsafe for
Drinking” in a conspicuous manner.
   (B)   This subchapter is a supplement to the applicable plumbing codes or
ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 172-21)
DROUGHT RESPONSE AND CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 51.45 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE WATER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   During the continued existence of climatic, hydrological and other
extraordinary conditions, the protection of the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the town may require that certain uses of water, not essential
to public health, safety and welfare, be reduced, restricted or curtailed. As
the shortage of raw or potable water becomes increasingly more critical,
conservation measures to reduce consumption or curtail nonessential water use
may be necessary. The definitions, water emergency criteria and water use
restrictions referenced in this subchapter are presented in greater detail in
the Mount Rogers Planning District Commission Drought Response and Contingency
Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The Town Manager or Utility Director is authorized to declare a water
emergency in the town restricting the use of water in the town service area.
All water stages are built upon and require compliance with previous water
stages. For example, when a drought emergency is declared, all provisions of a
drought warning are in effect. Also, the Town Manager or Utility Director may
declare any of the three stages; they do not have to be declared sequentially.
(1996 Code, § 172-23) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.46 PUBLICATION OF DECLARATION.
   Upon the declaration of a water emergency, the Town Manager or Utility
Director shall immediately post a written notice of the emergency at the front
door of the town administration building and shall place a notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area in which such emergency has been
declared.
(1996 Code, § 172-24) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.47 WATER USE CONSIDERATIONS.
   Upon the declaration of a water shortage or emergency, the Town Manager or
Utility Director is authorized and directed to implement conservation measures
by ordering the restricted use or absolute curtailment of the use of water for
certain nonessential purposes for the duration of the water shortage or
emergency in the manner hereinafter set out. In exercising this discretionary
authority, and making the determinations set forth herein, the Town Manager or
Utility Director shall give due consideration to stream flow conditions, water
levels, available/usable storage on hand, draw-down rates and the projected
supply capability in the town; system purification and pumping capacity; daily
water consumption and consumption projections of the system’s customers;
prevailing and forecasted weather conditions; fire service requirements;
pipeline conditions, including breakages, stoppages and leaks; supplementary
source data; estimates of minimum essential supplies to preserve public health
and safety and such other data pertinent to the past, current and projected
water demands.
(1996 Code, § 172-25) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.48 LIMITATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any governmental
activity, institution, business or industry which shall be declared by the Town
Manager or Utility Director, upon a proper showing, to be necessary for the
public health, safety and welfare or the prevention of severe economic hardship
or the substantial loss of employment. Any activity, institution, business or
industry aggrieved by the finding of the Town Manager or Utility Director may
appeal the decision to the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 172-26) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.49 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon a determination by the Town Manager or Utility Director of the
existence of the following conditions, the Town Manager or Utility Director
shall take the following actions that shall apply to all water users in the
town.
   (A)   Drought watch. When moderate but limited supplies of water are
available and a drought watch is declared in accordance with the Drought
Response and Contingency Plan, the Town Manager or Utility Director shall,
through appropriate means, call upon the general population to employ prudent
restraint in water usage. Public outreach activities shall be identified to
inform the general population of the potential for drought conditions to
intensify any potential water conservation activities that may be utilized.
   (B)   Drought warning. The drought warning stage includes voluntary water
conservation actions due to the imminent onset of a significant drought event.
      (1)   Customers will be asked to reduce outdoor water use by only using
water before 10:00 a.m. and after 7:00 p.m. and by:
         (a)   Reducing turf watering;
         (b)   Using a broom, not the hose, to clean driveways and sidewalks;
         (c)   Reducing vehicle washing;
         (d)   Using bucket watering instead of hose watering when possible;
and
         (e)   Turning off ornamental fountains.
      (2)   Customers will be asked to reduce indoor water use by:
         (a)   Identifying and repairing leaks;
         (b)   Turning off the water while shaving, brushing teeth and the
like;
         (c)   Reducing shower time to five minutes or taking baths with less
water;
         (d)   Only using the clothes washer and dishwasher machines when there
are full loads;
         (e)   Storing water in the refrigerator instead of running it to get
it cold; and
         (f)   Installing water-saver devices in the home, such as low-flow
toilets and showerheads.
   (C)   Drought emergency. As drought conditions continue to worsen, a drought
emergency may be declared by the Town Manager or Utility Director. When a
drought emergency is declared, the following mandatory water restrictions are
imposed:
      (1)   All public water uses not required for health or safety will be
prohibited;
      (2)   Watering outdoor vegetation will be prohibited, except from a
watering can or other container not exceeding three gallons in capacity or with
recycled water. Any person regularly engaged in the sale of plants will be
permitted to irrigate only in amounts necessary to prevent the loss of nursery
stock;
      (3)   Washing vehicles except from a bucket or other container not
exceeding three-gallons in capacity or with recycled water will be prohibited;
      (4)   Washing driveways, sidewalks, exteriors of homes or other outdoor
surfaces will be prohibited; however, any person regularly engaged in the
business of washing such areas shall be permitted to use water for such
purposes as long as the amount of water being used is minimized;
      (5)   The operation of any ornamental fountain or similar structure using
water will be prohibited;
      (6)   The filling or refilling of swimming pools or wading pools will be
prohibited;
      (7)   Restaurants and similar establishments will be prohibited from
serving water unless specifically requested by the customer; and
      (8)   Fire hydrant use will only be permitted for fire protection.
(1996 Code, § 172-27) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.50 NOTIFICATION OF END OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   The Town Manager or Utility Director shall notify the Town Council when, in
his or her opinion, the water emergency situation no longer exists. Upon
concurrence of the Town Council, the water emergency shall be declared to have
ended. When this declaration is made, the information shall be conveyed to the
general public through the news media.
(1996 Code, § 172-29) (Ord. passed 3-9-2010)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Drought warning.
         (a)   Any person who violates any provision of the drought warning
stage may be subject to the following civil penalties.
            1.   For the first offense, violators shall receive a written
warning delivered in person or posted by a representative of the town.
            2.   For the second offense, violators shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time, the fine to be imposed on the violator’s next
water bill, or in the case of violators not on the public water system, in a
written notice.
            3.   For the third offense, violators shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time for each offense, the fine to be imposed on
the violator’s next water bill, or in the case of violators not on the public
water system, in a written notice.
            4.   For each subsequent offense, violators will be subject to
water service termination and reconnection fees.
         (b)   Each violation by a person shall be counted as a separate
violation by that person, irrespective of the location at which the violation
occurs.
      (2)   Drought emergency. Any person who violates any provision of the
drought emergency stage may be subject to the following penalties.
         (a)   Residential customers who exceed the greater of 5,000 gallons of
water per month of consumption or use more than their average usage for the
same period in the previous 12 months will be charged two times the rate.
         (b)   Residential customers who continue to use more than 5,000
gallons of water per month of consumption or use more than their average usage
for the same period in the previous 12 months will be subject to water service
termination and reconnection fees.
      (3)   Challenge. Persons who have been assessed a penalty shall have the
right to challenge the assessment by providing a written notice to the Town
Manager or Utility Director who shall determine that the penalty was properly
assessed and notify the complaining person in writing of his or her
determination.
      (4)   Waive penalty. The Town Manager or Utility Director may waive the
penalty if he or she determines that the violation occurred due to no fault of
the person.
(1996 Code, § 172-28)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER TREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Administration
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.016   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
52.017   State pretreatment standards
   
52.018   Local limits
   
52.019   Right of revision
   
52.020   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
52.035   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.036   Additional pretreatment measures
   
52.037   Accidental discharges/slug control plans
   
52.038   Hauled wastewater
   
52.039   Vandalism
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
52.050   Wastewater analysis
   
52.051   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
52.052   Wastewater discharge permitting existing connections
   
52.053   Wastewater discharge permitting new connections
   
52.054   Wastewater discharge permitting extra jurisdictional industrial users
   
52.055   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
52.056   Application, signatories and certification
   
52.057   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
52.070   Duration
   
52.071   Contents
   
52.072   Appeals
   
52.073   Modifications
   
52.074   Transfer
   
52.075   Revocation
   
52.076   Reissuance
   
52.077   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
52.090   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.091   Compliance schedule progress report
   
52.092   Report on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.093   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.094   Report of changed conditions
   
52.095   New or increased discharges
   
52.096   Reports of potential problems
   
52.097   Reports from permitted users
   
52.098   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.099   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.100   Analytical requirements
   
52.101   Sample collection
   
52.102   Timing
   
52.103   Record-keeping
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
52.115   Compliance monitoring; right of entry
   
52.116   Confidential information
   
52.117   Publication of users
   
52.118   Rates
   
52.119   Pretreatment charges and fees
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
52.130   Notification of violation
   
52.131   Consent orders
   
52.132   Show cause hearing
   
52.133   Compliance orders
   
52.134   Cease and desist orders
   
52.135   Administrative fines
   
52.136   Emergency suspensions
   
52.137   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
52.150   Injunctive relief
   
52.151   Criminal prosecution
   
52.152   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
52.165   Performance bonds
   
52.166   Liability insurance
   
52.167   Water supply severance
   
52.168   Public nuisances
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.180   Upset
   
52.181   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.182   Bypass
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) for the town and enables the town to comply with
all applicable state and federal laws including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq.), the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403),
and the Virginia Permit Regulation (12 VAC 5-590-190 et seq.). The objectives
of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise
be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant sludge
is maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations;
      (4)   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
      (5)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (6)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
      (7)   To enable the town to comply with its VPDES permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. This chapter
authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides for
monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative
review procedures; requires industrial user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(1996 Code, § 168-1)
§ 52.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Wastewater Superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Wastewater Superintendent may be
delegated by the Wastewater Superintendent to other town personnel.
(1996 Code, § 168-2)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   BOD.  Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   VPDES. Virginia pollutant discharge elimination system.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classifications.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.).
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(1996 Code, § 168-3)
§ 52.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. SHALL is
mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary. The use of the singular shall be
construed to include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as
indicated by the context of its use.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Department of Environmental Quality of the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER. 
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership, or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to town.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD.  Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific
category of industrial users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
   COLOR. The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. One hundred percent transmittance is equivalent to
zero optical density.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE.  The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  The Town Council of the town.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time, not to exceed 15
minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE.  The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1317(b), (c) or (d).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent
of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore
is a cause of a violation of the POTW’s VPDES permit or of the prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345;
the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., including Title
II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA);
any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NEW SOURCE. 
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the town VPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and
industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (i.e., pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS. Prohibitive discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
52.015.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS OR POTW. A “treatment works” as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the state or municipality.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of
a liquid nature, and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant. The term also means the municipal entity having jurisdiction over the
users and responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the treatment
works.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, (the city) may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a
user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6), determine
that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.015, or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE.  A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORMWATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN.  The Town Council of the town.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. One of the 126 pollutants, or combination of those
pollutants, listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the EPA under the
provision of § 307 (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of the Act.
   TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. Any discharge of pollutants from the POTW into
waters of the state.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid- and water-carried industrial wastes, and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise
the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly authorized representative.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW
designed to provide treatment of sewage and industrial waste.
(1996 Code, § 168-4)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No industrial user shall introduce or cause to
be introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass
through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the
POTW whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or
any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirement.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the
municipal wastewater collection and POTW, including, but not limited to, waste
streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 11.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than three inches or 7.6 centimeter(s) in any dimension;
         (d)   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with either the POTW; or any wastewater treatment or sludge
process, or which will constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
         (e)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 104°F (40°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (f)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegadable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         (g)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         (h)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the town in accordance with §
52.038;
         (i)   Noxious or malodrous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance, a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
         (j)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the POTW effluent
thereby violating the town’s VPDES permit;
         (k)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (1)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Wastewater Superintendent;
         (m)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (n)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Wastewater Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
         (o)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         (p)   Detergents, surface active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         (q)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 500 mg/l; and
         (r)   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or any point in the POTW, over the lower
explosive limit of the meter.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
      (3)   All floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must
discharge to the user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the POTW.
   (C)   Requirements. This chapter references the significant industrial
user’s wastewater discharge permit. The user shall be required to meet all
requirements of the town wastewater discharge permit.
(1996 Code, § 168-5) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Wastewater Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Wastewater
Superintendent shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(1996 Code, § 168-6) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   In the event that pretreatment standards are adopted by the state, this
chapter shall incorporate the stricter of the standards.
(1996 Code, § 168-7)
§ 52.018 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The town may apply local limits through issuance of industrial user
permits as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The town may apply local limits based on EPA categorical pretreatment
standards, water quality standards or criteria, treatment plant process
inhibitions, or sludge disposal standards as necessary to comply with the
general prohibitions against pass-through, interference and sludge
contamination in 40 C.F.R. part 403 and VR 680-14-01, part VII.
(1996 Code, § 168-8)
§ 52.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW.
(1996 Code, § 168-9)
§ 52.020 DILUTION.
   (A)   No industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may impose mass limitations on
industrial users which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate.
(1996 Code, § 168-10) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 52.035 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §§
52.015 through
52.020 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the commonwealth or
the Wastewater Superintendent, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Wastewater Superintendent for review and approval, and shall be acceptable to
the Wastewater Superintendent before construction of the facilities begin.
   (C)   The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the town under the provisions of
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 168-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.036 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Wastewater Superintendent may require
industrial users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods,
designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers,
relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams
from industrial waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the industrial user’s compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Wastewater Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Wastewater
Superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at his or her expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain one or more approved combustible gas detection
meters.
(1996 Code, § 168-12) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the Wastewater Superintendent shall
evaluate whether each user needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit
for approval and implement such a plan.
   (C)   Alternatively, the Wastewater Superintendent may develop such a plan
for any user.
   (D)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. As required by §§
52.090 through
52.103, such notification must also be given for any discharge which would
violate any of the prohibited discharges in §§
52.015 through
52.020; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(1996 Code, § 168-13) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Wastewater Superintendent, and at such times as are
established by the Wastewater Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
52.015 through
52.020 or any other requirements established by the town. The Wastewater
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste
to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The Wastewater Superintendent may
require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge
permits. The Wastewater Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers shall discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Wastewater Superintendent. No load may be discharged without
prior consent of the Wastewater Superintendent. The Wastewater Superintendent
may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. The Wastewater Superintendent may require the industrial waste
hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers shall provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(1996 Code, § 168-14) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.039 VANDALISM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any structure,
appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in
violation of this requirement shall be subject to the sanctions set out in §§
52.130 through
52.137,
52.150 through
52.152,
52.165 through
52.168 and
52.999.
(1996 Code, § 168-15) Penalty, see §
52.999
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
§ 52.050 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When required by the Wastewater Superintendent, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater by completing a
wastewater survey within 30 days of the request. The Superintendent is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
industrial users to update this information. Failure to complete this survey
shall be reasonable grounds for terminating service to the user and shall be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 168-16) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first
obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the Wastewater Superintendent,
except that a user that has filed a timely application pursuant to §§
52.050 through
52.057 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require other users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
52.130 through
52.137,
52.150 through
52.152,
52.165 through
52.168 and
52.999. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(1996 Code, § 168-17) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
30 days after said date, apply to the Wastewater Superintendent for a
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §§
52.050 through
52.057, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
120 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Wastewater Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 168-18) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.053 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging industrial wastes into the POTW must obtain a
wastewater discharge permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance
with §§
52.050 through
52.057, must be filed at least 120 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(1996 Code, § 168-19) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.054 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING EXTRA JURISDICTIONAL INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   Any existing significant industrial user located beyond the town
limits shall submit a wastewater discharge permit application, in accordance
with §
52.055, within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter. New significant
industrial users located beyond the town limits shall submit such applications
to the Wastewater Superintendent 120 days prior to any proposed discharge into
the POTW.
   (B)   Alternately, the Wastewater Superintendent may enter into an agreement
with the neighboring jurisdiction in which the significant industrial user is
located to provide for the implementation and enforcement of pretreatment
program requirements against said industrial user.
(1996 Code, § 168-20) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.055 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The Wastewater Superintendent may require all users to
submit as part of an application the following information:
      (1)   All information required by §§
52.090 through
52.103;
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation of the POTW;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   The site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Wastewater
Superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(1996 Code, § 168-21)
§ 52.056 APPLICATION, SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must contain
the following certification statement and be signed by an authorized
representative of the user.
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate
and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting
false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for
knowing violations.”
(1996 Code, § 168-22)
§ 52.057 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent and Engineer will evaluate the data furnished by the user
and may require additional information. Within 90 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Wastewater Superintendent will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The Wastewater
Superintendent may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(1996 Code, § 168-23)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 52.070 DURATION.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit.
   (B)   A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (C)   Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon
which it will expire.
(1996 Code, § 168-24)
§ 52.071 CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Wastewater Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the waterbody receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to and approval from the town, in accordance with §§
52.070 through
52.077, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (5)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Wastewater
Superintendent to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal
laws, rules and regulations.
(1996 Code, § 168-25) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent shall provide public notice of the
issuance of a wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Any person, including the user, may petition the Wastewater
Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within
90 days of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the Wastewater Superintendent fails to act within 30 days, a
request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to
reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative action for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the Circuit Court of the county within six months.
(1996 Code, § 168-26)
§ 52.073 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may modify a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat,
to the POTW, town personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit; and
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   (B)   The filing of a request by the permittee for a wastewater discharge
permit modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition.
(1996 Code, § 168-27)
§ 52.074 TRANSFER.
   (A)   (1)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner
or operator only if the permittee gives at least 90 days’ advance notice to the
Wastewater Superintendent and the Wastewater Superintendent approves, the
wastewater discharge permit transfer.
      (2)   The notice to the Wastewater Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(1996 Code, § 168-28)
§ 52.075 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may revoke a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Wastewater Superintendent of significant
changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Wastewater
Superintendent of changed condition pursuant to §§
52.090 through
52.103;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Wastewater Superintendent timely access to
the facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(1996 Code, § 168-29)
§ 52.076 REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §§
52.050 through
52.057, a minimum of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(1996 Code, § 168-30)
§ 52.077 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Wastewater Superintendent shall enter
into an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Wastewater Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Wastewater Superintendent may deem
necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits
which are at least as stringent as those set out in §
52.018. The requirements shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Wastewater Superintendent;
and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and the Wastewater Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Wastewater Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Wastewater Superintendent access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing municipality’s
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other
duties deemed necessary by the Wastewater Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(1996 Code, § 168-31)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.090 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Wastewater Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the Wastewater Superintendent a report which contains
the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall also be
required to report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source shall also give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operations) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Wastewater
Superintendent of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
52.101.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.101.
      (6)   Certification. A statement reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.091; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.056.
(1996 Code, § 168-32)
§ 52.091 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORT.
   The following conditions shall apply to the schedule required by §
52.090(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Wastewater
Superintendent no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if
appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Wastewater Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 168-33)
§ 52.092 REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Wastewater
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
52.090(B)(4) through (B)(6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent
mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user’s long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.056.
(1996 Code, § 168-34)
§ 52.093 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Wastewater Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June
and December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§§
52.050 through
52.057.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Wastewater
Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed in §§
52.090 through
52.103, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(1996 Code, § 168-35)
§ 52.094 REPORT OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Wastewater Superintendent of any planned
significant changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §§
52.050 through
52.057.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under §§
52.050 through
52.057 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §§
52.070 through
52.077 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, monthly average flow increases of 10% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(1996 Code, § 168-36)
§ 52.095 NEW OR INCREASED DISCHARGES.
   All industrial user shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any new or
increased discharge. The town may deny or condition new or increased
contributions of pollutants, or changes in the nature of pollutants, to the
POTW by industrial users where such contributions do not meet applicable
pretreatment standards and regulations or where such contributions would cause
the POTW to violate its VPDES permit.
(1996 Code, § 168-37)
§ 52.096 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the
user shall immediately telephone and notify the Wastewater Superintendent of
the incident. This notification shall include the location of discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the industrial user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Wastewater Superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the .user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(1996 Code, § 168-38)
§ 52.097 REPORTS FROM PERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Wastewater Superintendent as the Wastewater
Superintendent may require.
(1996 Code, § 168-39)
§ 52.098 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Wastewater Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Wastewater Superintendent within 30 days
after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to resample if
the POTW monitoring at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the
POTW samples between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
(1996 Code, § 168-40)
§ 52.099 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to refuse some or all discharges of
hazardous waste.
   (B)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification shall also contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the industrial user: an
identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an
estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the waste
stream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of
constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted
only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of
changed discharges must be submitted under §
52.094. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.090 through
52.103.
   (C)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (D)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW, the EPA Regional
Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities
of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   (E)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (F)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(1996 Code, § 168-41)
§ 52.100 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(1996 Code, § 168-42)
§ 52.101 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the Wastewater
Superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(1996 Code, § 168-43)
§ 52.102 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(1996 Code, § 168-44)
§ 52.103 RECORD-KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include:
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Wastewater
Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 168-45)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 52.115 COMPLIANCE MONITORING; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Right of entry: inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The Wastewater Superintendent shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder.
      (2)   Users shall allow the Wastewater Superintendent ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
         (a)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, personnel from the town, state and EPA will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
         (b)   The town, state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
user’s property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
         (c)   The town may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated frequently to ensure their accuracy.
         (d)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Wastewater Superintendent and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
user.
         (e)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Wastewater Superintendent
access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 168-46)
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Wastewater Superintendent has been refused
access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, then the Wastewater Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the County Circuit Court.
(1996 Code, § 168-47)
§ 52.116 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs, and from the Wastewater Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Wastewater Superintendent, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the VPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be
available to the public without restriction.
(1996 Code, § 168-48)
§ 52.117 PUBLICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   The town shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the users
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the town believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through,
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the town’s exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to provide within 90 days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standards and deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the town determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(1996 Code, § 168-49)
§ 52.118 RATES.
   Rates shall be charged as duly and legally set by the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 168-69)
§ 52.119 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the town pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the town.
(1996 Code, § 168-70)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.130 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may serve upon said user a written
notice of violation. Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Wastewater Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the town to take any action, including emergency actions or any
other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(1996 Code, § 168-50)
§ 52.131 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of
voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an agreement with
any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
52.133 and
52.134 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(1996 Code, § 168-51)
§ 52.132 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Wastewater Superintendent and show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 168-52)
§ 52.133 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time.
   (B)   If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided,
sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices
or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders may also contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring, and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer.
   (C)   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 168-53) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.134 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Wastewater Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease
and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite, for taking any other action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 168-54)
§ 52.135 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not
to exceed the maximum fine allowed under state law. Such fines shall be
assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other
long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during
the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 1.5% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.5% per month. A lien against the user’s
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Wastewater Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the Wastewater Superintendent shall convene a hearing on the matter.
In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment together with any
interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Wastewater
Superintendent may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement
actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 168-55)
§ 52.136 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Wastewater Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s
discharge after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Wastewater Superintendent may also immediately suspend
a user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Wastewater Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Wastewater Superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge when
the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Wastewater Superintendent
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
in §
52.137 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Wastewater Superintendent, prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under §§
52.132 or
52.137.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(1996 Code, § 168-56)
§ 52.137 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §§
52.070 through
52.077, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
52.015 through
52.020.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
52.132 why the proposed action should not be taken.
   (C)   Exercise of this option by the Wastewater Superintendent shall not be
a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(1996 Code, § 168-57)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 52.150 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Wastewater Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Wastewater Superintendent may petition the County Circuit
Court through the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The Wastewater Superintendent may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(1996 Code, § 168-58)
§ 52.151 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine or imprisonment of not more than the maximum
fine allowed under state law.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of fine and/or imprisonment
as prescribed by state law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment
as prescribed by state law.
   (D)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
line and/or imprisonment as prescribed by state law.
(1996 Code, § 168-60)
§ 52.152 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may take any, all or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user.
   (C)   Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the town enforcement response plan. However, the Wastewater Superintendent
may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
   (D)   Further, the Wastewater Superintendent is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(1996 Code, § 168-61)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 52.165 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Wastewater Superintendent to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
(1996 Code, § 168-62)
§ 52.166 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Wastewater Superintendent may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that
it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to
the POTW caused by its discharge.
(1996 Code, § 168-63)
§ 52.167 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user may be
severed.
   (B)   Service will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(1996 Code, § 168-64)
§ 52.168 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as
directed by the Wastewater Superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public
nuisance shall be subject to the provisions governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the town for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
said nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 168-65) Penalty, see §
52.999
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.180 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (c) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Wastewater
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(1996 Code, § 168-66)
§ 52.181 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.015(B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(r) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its VPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(1996 Code, § 168-67)
§ 52.182 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Bypass. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (c) and (D) below.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Wastewater Superintendent, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Wastewater Superintendent of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Wastewater Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
   (D)   Action by Wastewater Superintendent.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Wastewater Superintendent may take
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There was no feasible alternative to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (c) above.
      (2)   The Wastewater Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Wastewater Superintendent
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1)
above.
(1996 Code, § 168-68)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the town for a
maximum civil penalty in an amount set by Council from time to time per
violation per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
   (B)   The Wastewater Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the town.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(1996 Code, § 168-59)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Applicability
   
53.003   Depositing certain wastes prohibited
   
53.004   Discharge of untreated water prohibited
   
53.005   Construction of privies
   
53.006   Injury to wastewater facility equipment
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
53.020   Right of entry
   
53.021   Right of entry in easements
   
53.022   Right to obtain information; withholding of confidential information
   
53.023   Observation of safety rules; liability for injury
Private Waste Disposal
   
53.035   Connection with private system
   
53.036   Permit required; inspection fee
   
53.037   Inspections
   
53.038   Sanitary operation required
   
53.039   Connection to public sewer
   
53.040   Construal of provisions
   
53.041   Private waste disposal application
Building Sewers and Construction
   
53.055   Connections required
   
53.056   Sewer connection fees
   
53.057   Inspection by Superintendent
   
53.058   Costs to be borne by owner of building
   
53.059   Separate sewer required; exception
   
53.060   Use of old sewers
   
53.061   Building sewer construction
   
53.062   Location of sewer
   
53.063   Connection to public sewer
   
53.064   Certain connections prohibited
   
53.065   Excavations to be lighted; restoration of streets
   
53.066   Residential or commercial building sewer application
Use of Public Sewers
   
53.080   Discharge of unpolluted waters
   
53.081   Discharge of stormwater
   
53.082   Prohibited discharges
   
53.083   Limitations on certain discharges
   
53.084   Authority of Superintendent
   
53.085   Interceptors
   
53.086   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities
   
53.087   Structure to facilitate sampling and observation required
   
53.088   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
53.089   Special agreement to accept industrial waste
Industrial Wastes
   
53.100   Compliance required
   
53.101   Definitions
   
53.102   Admission into public sewer
   
53.103   Prohibited discharges
   
53.104   Control of admissible wastes
   
53.105   Protection from damage
   
53.106   Powers and authority of enforcing agents
   
53.107   Surcharge
   
53.108   Billings; liens
Rates and Charges
   
53.120   Purpose of rates; rules and regulations
   
53.121   Disposition of funds
   
53.122   Service deposit
   
53.123   Sewer rate structure
   
53.124   Disconnection for late payment
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste, see
Chapter 50
   Wastewater treatment, see
Chapter 52
   Water, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage system
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trades or
businesses as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CONNECTION.  Any water meter connection longer than three-
quarters inch.
   pH.  The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration; the
concentration in the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10.7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   RESIDENTIAL CONNECTION.  Any water meter connection which is three-quarter
inch or smaller.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE.  The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUDGE.  Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Wastewater Facilities or of Wastewater
Treatment Works or of Water Pollution Control of the town, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as NONFILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   TOWN COUNCIL GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE.  The Town Council, or a committee
appointed by it, to hear and decide the differences between the approving
authority and permittee or sewer users on matters concerning interpretation and
execution of this chapter by the approving authority.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of a quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge, sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(1996 Code, § 128-1)
§ 53.002 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all areas within the
extraterritorial limits of the town as established by the reciprocal agreement
with the Board of Supervisors of the county, and as they shall be amended and
shall apply to all users of the town’s sewer system regardless of location.
(1996 Code, § 128-2)
§ 53.003 DEPOSITING CERTAIN WASTES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(1996 Code, § 128-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.004 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED WATER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 128-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.005 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(1996 Code, § 128-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.006 INJURY TO WASTEWATER FACULTY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities.
(1996 Code, § 128-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 53.020 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Every owner of property from which sewage is dispelled into the sewer system
shall permit any authorized agent of the town to enter such property at
reasonable hours, to inspect the works therein or to see if the provisions of
this chapter have been violated. Any person refusing to do so shall, for each
refusal, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 128-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.021 RIGHT OF ENTRY IN EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(1996 Code, § 128-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.022 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION; WITHHOLDING OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential.
   (B)   The industry shall establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
(1996 Code, § 128-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.023 OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES; LIABILITY FOR INJURY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.020, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules established by the company applicable to the premises.
The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to town employees, and
the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
town employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.087.
(1996 Code, § 128-11)
PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 53.035 CONNECTION WITH PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, under the
provisions of §
53.055, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 128-12)
§ 53.036 PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system,
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee
in an amount set by Council from time to time shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed.
(1996 Code, § 128-13)
§ 53.037 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
(1996 Code, § 128-14)
§ 53.038 SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
(1996 Code, § 128-15)
§ 53.039 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owner of each and every property abutting in any manner upon a street or
alley through which runs a public sewer, or through whose land a public sewer
runs, shall be required to connect the premises with such sewer and discontinue
the use of privies, outside toilets or any other disposal system, provided that
such connection is technically feasible and will not require a private sewer
line over 250 feet in length, in which event the property owner may be excused
from the necessity of such connection, in the discretion of the Town Council,
if an approved septic tank is constructed and maintained according to the
standards required by the State Health Department of Virginia (February 1977),
as amended.
(1996 Code, § 128-16)
§ 53.040 CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be constructed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1996 Code, § 128-17)
§ 53.041 PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL APPLICATION.
   The private waste disposal application is as follows.
   TO THE TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE, VIRGINIA:
   The undersigned, being the ____________________________________________ of
the property
                        (owner, owner’s agent)
located at _________________________________________________
            (number (street)
does hereby request a permit to install sanitary sewage disposal facilities to
serve the ___________ ______________________________________________ at the
location.
(residence, commercial building, etc.)
1.   The proposed facilities include:
___________________________________________________ to be constructed in
complete accordance with the plans and specifications attached hereunto as
Exhibit A.
2.   The area of the property is ____________ square feet (or square meters.)
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work is:
4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is
5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water supply
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said property are shown on the
plat attached hereunto as Exhibit B.
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the undersigned agrees:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that
shall be requested by the Superintendent.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of Section(s)_of the Code of the
Town of Independence, Virginia, and of all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this
application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all
requirements of the Health Officer and at no expense to the town.
4.   To notify the Superintendent at least 24 hours prior to commencement of
the work proposed and again at least 24 hours prior to the covering of any
underground portions of the installation.
Date: ___________________ Signed      _______________________________________
                              (applicant)
                                    _______________________________________
(address of applicant)
                                    _______________________________________
(certification by Town Treasurer)
   $______________ inspection fee paid
   Application approved and permit issued:
   Date: ____________________ Signed       __________________________
                        (Superintendent)
(1996 Code, § 128-18)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.055 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is
hereby required at the owners expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
the official notice to do so, provided that said property line is within 250
feet of the town sewer line.
(1996 Code, § 128-19)
§ 53.056 SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation applying for the introduction of
sewerage into the town sewer system through any line not exceeding four inches
in diameter shall pay as a sewerage connection fee the sum as set by Council
from time to time for each and every connection made within the corporate
limits of the town and for each and every connection made outside the corporate
limits of the town, a fee of $375.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation applying for the introduction of
sewerage through pipelines exceeding four inches in diameter shall, in addition
to the application, pay a connection fee to be determined by the Town Council
or its agent.
(1996 Code, § 128-20)
§ 53.057 INSPECTION BY SUPERINTENDENT
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1996 Code, § 128-21)
§ 53.058 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER OF BUILDING.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1996 Code, § 128-22)
§ 53.059 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
(1996 Code, § 128-23)
§ 53.060 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 128-24)
§ 53.061 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
State Uniform Statewide Building Code or other applicable rules and regulations
of the town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 128-25)
§ 53.062 LOCATION OF SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(1996 Code, § 128-26)
§ 53.063 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Uniform Statewide Building Code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No.
9.
   (B)   All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing.
   (C)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(1996 Code, § 128-27)
§ 53.064 CERTAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Superintendent
for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(1996 Code, § 128-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.065 EXCAVATIONS TO BE LIGHTED: RESTORATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(1996 Code, § 128-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.066 RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION.
   The application and permit for water and/or sewer connection in the town is
as follows.
APPLICATION FOR WATER AND/OR SEWER CONNECTION
IN THE TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE
   The undersigned hereby makes application for a water and/or sewer connection
to the water and/or sewer system(s) in the Town of Independence.
Location:
________________________________________________________________________
Description of property:
_____________________________________________________________
   Type of connection requested:
   Single dwelling ____,   Multiple dwelling _____,   Trailer or mobile home
_______,
   Business ____,   Industry ____,   Other (please specify) ____,   
   Sewer Connection $_______
   Water Connection $_______
   Date __________________________         __________________________________
                           Signature of Applicant
PERMIT FOR SEWER CONNECTION OR WATER CONNECTION
FOR THE TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE
   ISSUED TO: ______________________:
Subject to compliance with the town ordinances, you are permitted to connect to
and use the water and/or sewer system of the Town of Independence.
Receipt of $_____ for connection fee (water) is acknowledged.
Receipt of $_____ for connection fee (sewer) is acknowledged.
Date _______________
                                       TOWN OF INDEPENDENCE, VIRGINIA
                                             BY: ___________________
This permit covers the following described connection:
___________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
   SIGNATURE (authorized representative of the town)
____________________________________
   Date: ______________
(1996 Code, § 128-30)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.080 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters,
such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling
water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at times and may be discharged to the sanitary sewer
by permission of the Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 128-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.081 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER.
   Stormwater other than that exempted under §
53.080 and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(1996 Code, § 128-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.082 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the wastewater facilities, such as but not limited to ashes,
bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1996 Code, § 128-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.083 LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewer’s wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to
the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors
as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or a product of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fats
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
sludge as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(1996 Code, § 128-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.084 AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.083 and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters
or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.089.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 128-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.085 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
53.083(B)(3), or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients,
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwellings units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured materials and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must
be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(1996 Code, § 128-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.086 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1996 Code, § 128-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.087 STRUCTURES TO FACILITATE SAMPLING AND OBSERVATION REQUIRED.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1996 Code, § 128-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.088 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 128-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.089 SPECIAL AGREEMENT TO ACCEPT INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment.
(1996 Code, § 128-40)
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 53.100 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person seeking approval to discharge industrial wastes into the public
sewers within or without the corporate limits of the town or within its
jurisdiction shall be required to comply with the requirements hereof before
such approval may be granted.
(1996 Code, § 128-41)
§ 53.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Town Engineer or other official designated by the
Mayor or his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   BOD (DENOTING “BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND”).  The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million. The laboratory
determination shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Standard Methods.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharges from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys them to the building sewer
beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewer or other
place for disposal.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waterborne wastes normally discharged from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories and institutions, free from stormwater, surface water and
industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes and residue from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food products and
produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. All waterborne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes
resulting from any industrial, manufacturing or food processing operation or
process or from the development of any natural resource, or any mixture of
these with water or domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Normal sewage for the town in which concentration of
suspended materials and five-day 20°C. BOD is established at 240 parts per
million each, by weight, on the basis of the normal daily contribution of 0.20
pounds per capita, per 100 gallons.
   PARTS PER MILLION.  A weight-to-weight ratio; the parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8,345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERMITTEE. The person applying for a permit to construct a sanitary sewer
main or to connect to an existing sanitary sewer.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures
outlined in Standard Methods.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Either a sanitary or storm sewer in which all owners of
abutting properties shall have equal rights and is controlled by a public
authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
dispensing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sanitary sewage.
   SEWERAGE.  The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage and industrial wastes.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge made on all users of the public sewerage
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal sewage.
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition at the time of analysis of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, as prepared, approved and published jointly by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN.  A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
storm sewers.
   SURCHARGE.  The charge in addition to the published water and sewer rates.
The basis for SURCHARGES on industrial wastes is a capital and operating cost
for suspended solids, BOD and chlorine demand exceeding normal domestic sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall be
made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water or waste containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil, acid or alkali, phenols or other
substances imparting taste and odor in the receiving water; toxic poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or odorous
gases. It shall contain not more than ten parts per million each of suspended
solids and BOD. The color shall not exceed 150 Jackson turbidity units.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1996 Code, § 128-42)
§ 53.102 ADMISSION INTO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Approval required. Review and acceptance of the approving authority
shall be obtained prior to the discharge into the public sewers of any wastes
and waters having the following:
      (1)   A five-day 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than 240
parts per million;
      (2)   Suspended solids content greater than 240 parts per million; and/or
      (3)   Chlorine demand greater than five parts per million.
   (B)   Pretreatment. Where required, in the opinion of the approving
authority, to modify or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures,
process or operation of the sewage disposal works, the permittee shall provide,
at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment or processing facilities as
may be determined necessary to render his or her wastes acceptable for
admission to the public sewer.
   (C)   Submission of information. Design calculations, plans, specifications
and other pertinent information relating to proposed industrial waste
pretreatment or processing facilities shall be submitted for approval or
disapproval by the approving authority prior to start of their construction if
the effluent from such facilities is to be discharged into the public sewers.
The following industrial sewer connection application shall be fully completed
and submitted to the approving authority. The permittee shall not connect to
the public sewer without prior approval by the approving authority of the
permittee’s industrial sewer connection application. It shall be the
responsibility of the permittee to file an amendment for approval to the permit
30 days prior to the change of any item of information on the permit. Failure
to maintain the permit as an accurate representation of the permittee’s waste
discharges to public sewers shall be cause for penalty.
   (D)   Preapplication conference. Prior to filing an industrial sewer
connection application, the permittee shall consult with the approving
authority or his or her duly authorized representative concerning the types,
concentration and volumes of industrial wastes proposed for discharge.
Conditional approval as to the general requirements must be obtained from the
approving authority prior to preparation of the industrial sewer connection
application.
INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
To the Town of Independence, Grayson County, Virginia:
The undersigned being the _____________________________________
                        (owner, lessee, tenant, etc.)
of the property located at _______________________________________ does hereby
request a permit to _________________ an industrial sewer connection serving
the ____________________
            (install, use)                                    (name of company)
   which company is engaged in _________________________ at said location.
(1)   A plan of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit A.
(2)   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit B.
(3)   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced
or expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, and
representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit C.
(4)   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit is __________________________________.
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the undersigned agrees:
(5)   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use
of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be requested by
the Superintendent.
(6)   To accept and abide by all provisions of Ordinance No. ________________
of the Town of Independence, Virginia, and of all other pertinent ordinances or
regulations that may be adopted in the future.
(7)   To operate and maintain any waste pretreatment facilities, as may be
required as a condition of the acceptance into the public sewer of the
industrial wastes involved, in an efficient manner at all times and at no
expense to the town.
(8)   To cooperate at all times with the Superintendent and his or her
representatives in their inspecting, sampling and study of the industrial
wastes and any facilities provided by pretreatment.
(9)   To notify the Superintendent immediately in the event of any accident,
negligence or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of
any wastes or process waters not covered by this permit.
Date __________________      Signed    ____________________________________
                           (applicant)
                        ____________________________________
                           (address of applicant)
                        ____________________________________
                           (certification by Town Clerk)
$ __________   inspection fee paid
Application approved and permit approved:
Date: ___________________      Signed ______________________________________
                           (Superintendent)
(1996 Code, § 128-43)
§ 53.103 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, down spouts, yard drains, yard
fountains and ponds or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the approving authority.
      (2)   Unpolluted processed water may be discharged upon prior written
approval of the approving authority to a storm sewer or natural outlet or into
the sanitary sewer system by and in direct connection whereby such discharge is
cooled, if required, and flows into the sanitary sewer at a rate not in excess
of three gallons per minute, provided that the waste does not contain materials
or substances in suspension or solution in violation of the limits prescribed
by this subchapter.
      (3)   Any person discharging waste of any type into a storm sewer or
natural outlet shall first obtain the written permission of the approving
authority who shall designate the point of discharge whether it be sanitary
sewer, storm sewer or natural outlet.
      (4)   In cases where, and in the opinion of the approving authority, the
character of the sewage from any manufacturer or industrial plant building or
other premises is such that it will damage the system or cannot be treated
satisfactorily in the system, the approving authority shall have the right to
require such user to dispose of such waste otherwise and prevent it from
entering the system.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly
or indirectly, any of the following described substances, materials, waters or
waste:
      (1)   Any liquid having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes which contain wax, grease or oil, plastic or
other substance that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at
temperatures between 32°F to 150°F;
      (3)   Any solids, liquids or gases which by themselves or by interaction
with other substances may cause fire or explosion hazards or in any other way
be injurious to persons, property or the operation of the sewage works;
      (4)   Any solids, slurries or viscous substances of such character as to
be capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime
slurry, lime residues, slops, chemical residues, paint residues or bulk solids;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or shredded;
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous substance which, singly or by interaction
with other substances, is capable of causing objectionable odors or hazard to
life; or forms solids or creates any other condition deleterious to structures
or treatment processes; or requires unusual provisions, alteration or expense
to handle such material;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.5
point or having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment, personnel or biological population of the sewage works;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended or dissolved solids of
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the sewage treatment or in the public sewage works;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance,
such as but not limited to plating or that treating wastes in sufficient
quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to create any hazard in the
receiving waters or the sewage treatment plant;
      (10)   Any cyanide greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (11)   Any hexavalent chromium greater than 2.0 parts per million;
      (12)   Any mercury greater than 0.005 part per million;
      (13)   Any trivalent chromium greater than 5.0 parts per million;
      (14)   Any manganese greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (15)   Any copper greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (16)   Any boron greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (17)   Any nickel greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (18)   Any cadmium greater than 0.02 part per million;
      (19)   Any arsenic greater than 0.05 part per million;
      (20)   Any zinc greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (21)   Any phenols greater than 0.2 part per million;
      (22)   Any iron greater than 2.0 parts per million;
      (23)   Any tin greater than 1.0 part per million;
      (24)   Any barium greater than 5.0 parts per million;
      (25)   Any lead greater than 0.1 part per million;
      (26)   Any silver greater than 0.10 part per million;
      (27)   Any selenium greater than 0.02 part per million;
      (28)   Any chlorides greater than 250.0 parts per million;
      (29)   Any radioactivity as radium maximum contaminant level 226 of 3
pci/l and strontium 100 pci/l.7;
      (30)   Any antimony greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (31)   Any beryllium greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (32)   Any bismuth greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (33)   Any cobalt greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (34)   Any molybdenum greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (35)   An rhenium greater than 0.0 part per million;
      (36)   Any tellurium greater than 0.0 part per million; or
      (37)   Any uranylion greater than 0.0 parts per million.
   (C)   Except in quantities or concentrations or with provisions as
stipulated herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge waters or
wastes to the sanitary sewer containing the following:
      (1)   Free or emulsified oil and grease exceeding on analysis an average
of 100 parts per million 833 pounds per million gallons of either or both or
combinations of free or emulsified oil and grease, if, in the opinion of the
approving authority it appears probable that such wastes:
         (a)   May deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner to
clot the sewers;
         (b)   May overload slamming and grease-handling equipment;
         (c)   Are not amenable to bacterial action and will therefore pass to
the receiving waters without being affected by normal sewage treatment
processes; and
         (d)   May have deleterious effects on the treatment process due to the
excessive quantities.
      (2)   Any radioactive wastes greater than the allowable stipulated above;
      (3)   Cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic
gas on acidification in excess of 0.5 part per million by weight as CN in the
wastes from any outlet into the public sewers; and
      (4)   Material which exert or cause the following:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of solids or composition as, for example,
in total suspended solids or inert nature (such as Fuller’s earth) or in total-
dissolved solids (such as sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration;
         (c)   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand;
         (d)   High hydrogen sulfide content; and
         (e)   Unusual flow and concentration, unless such material shall be
pretreated to a concentration acceptable to the town, if such wastes can cause
damage to collection facilities, impair the processes, incur treatment costs
exceeding those of normal sewage or render the water unfit for stream disposal.
Where discharge of such wastes to the sanitary sewer are not property
pretreated or otherwise corrected, the approving authority shall reject the
wastes or terminate the service of water or sanitary sewer.
(1996 Code, § 128-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.104 CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE WASTES.
   (A)   Within 60 days from June 5, 1974, any person desiring to deposit or
discharge any industrial waste into the public sewers or natural outlets of the
town or any sewer connected therewith or who is now so doing shall make
application to the approving authority for a permit therefor upon application
forms to be obtained from the town.
   (B)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwellings.
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the approving
authority and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for easy
cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be substantially constructed, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and
watertight. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the
permittee, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
   (C)   Within 60 days from June 5, 1974, any person discharging or desiring
to discharge an industrial waste mixture into the public sewers or natural
outlets of the town or any sewer connected therewith shall provide and maintain
in a suitable, accessible position on the permittee’s premises, or such
premises occupied by him or her, an inspection chamber or a manhole near the
outlet of each sewer, drain, pipe, channel or connection which communicates
with the sewer or sewer works of the town or any sewer connected therewith.
Each such manhole or inspection chamber shall be of such design and
construction which will prevent infiltration by ground and surface waters and
be filtered by screens with a maximum opening of one inch, but sufficient
fineness to prevent the entrance of objectionable sludge of solids to the
sanitary sewer system, and shall be so maintained by the person discharging
wastes so that any authorized representative or employee of the town may
readily and safely measure the volume and obtain samples of the flow at all
times. Plans for construction of the control manholes or inspection chambers,
including such flow measuring devices as may be required, shall be included
with the industrial sewer connection application.
   (D)   Sampling of the effluent of waste discharges may be accomplished
manually or by use of mechanical equipment to obtain a composite sample which
would be representative of the total effluent. Samples shall be taken at six-
month intervals to establish the BOD suspended solids and chlorine demand of
the industrial waste for billing purposes, or at such intervals as determined
by the approving authority as necessary to maintain a control over the
discharges from the permittee. The method used in the examination of all
industrial wastes to determine BOD suspended solids, chlorine demand and
prohibited wastes shall be set forth in Standard Methods.
(1996 Code, § 128-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.105 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the sewage works.
(1996 Code, § 128-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.106 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF ENFORCING AGENTS.
   (A)   The approving authority, and other duly authorized employees of the
town acting as its duly authorized agent and bearing credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to gain access to such properties as may be
necessary for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing, in accordance with provisions of this subchapter. The approving
authority or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any process beyond that point having direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewer.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties of division
(A) above, the approving authority or duly authorized employees of the town
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company.
   (C)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof. Any person who shall continue any violation of his or her industrial
sewer connection application shall be disconnected from the sanitary sewer
water service. Such disconnection and reconnection shall be at the total
expense of the industry or sewer user.
   (D)   Where wastes, acids, chemicals or other deleterious substances are
released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with the proper treatment of sewage, the approving authority is
authorized to immediately terminate services by such measures as are necessary
to protect the facilities.
(1996 Code, § 128-47) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.107 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Persons discharging industrial wastes which exhibit none of the
characteristics of wastes prohibited previously, other than excessive BOD or
suspended solids, but having a concentration for a duration of 15 minutes
greater than four times that of normal sewage as measured by suspended solids
and BOD or an average concentration during a normal working day of the
permittee’s industry of suspended solids or BOD content in excess of normal
sewage as defined in this subchapter shall be required to pretreat the
industrial wastes to meet the requirements of normal sewage; however, such
wastes may be accepted for treatment if the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The waste will not cause damage to the collection and treatment
facilities.
      (2)   The waste will not impair the treatment process.
      (3)   The person who discharges such waste enters into an industrial
sewer connection application and agrees to pay the sewer service charge and
industrial waste surcharge.
   (B)   The person who discharges such wastes shall enter into an industrial
sewer connection application with the town providing for a surcharge over and
above published water and sewer rates. The basis for the surcharge on
industrial wastes is a capital and operating cost of $0.12 per part per million
gallons for the BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) and a capital and operating
cost of $0.36 per part per million gallons for the suspended solids exceeding
normal sewage. The cost of the chlorination is based on the town’s contract
cost of chlorine per pound per million gallons for each part exceeding the five
parts of normal sewage. These rates shall continue until changed by action of
the Town Council. The surcharge shall be calculated for billing purposes with
the following formula:
   SC    =    [0.12 (BOD -240) + 0.36 (SS1 -- 240) + 8.345PC (C-5)]
   Where:
   SC      =       Surcharge in dollars for time related to volume
   V       =       Volume in million gallons based on metered water
   BOD   =       5-day at 20°C of industrial waste (ppm)
   SS1    =       Suspended solids of industrial waste (ppm)
   Pc       =       Town’s contract price of chlorine per pound
   C       =       Chlorine demand of the industrial waste (ppm)
   (C)   Any person who refuses to comply with or who resists or willfully
discharges wastes prohibited from discharge into public sewers or who refuses
to comply with the provisions of this section shall be served by the approving
authority with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
      (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
shall be guilty of violation of his or her industrial sewer connection
application and shall be summarily disconnected from the sanitary or water
service, such disconnection and reconnection to be at the total expense of the
customer.
      (2)   Where acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment
process are released to the sewer and cause rapid deterioration of these
structures or interfere with the proper treatment of sewage, the approving
authority is authorized to immediately terminate service by such measures as
are necessary to protect the facilities.
(1996 Code, § 128-48) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.108 BILLINGS; LIENS.
   (A)   The industrial waste surcharge provided for in this subchapter shall
be included as a separate item on the regular bill for water and sewer charges
and shall be paid monthly in accordance with the existing practices. Surcharges
shall be paid at the same time that the water, sewer and sanitation charges of
the person become due and payment for water and sanitation services shall be
accepted without payment also of the sewer service charges and industrial
wastes surcharges.
   (B)   There shall be a lien upon real estate for the amount of any fees,
rents or other charges by the town to the owner, lessee or tenant of such real
estate for the use and services of the town sewer system by or in connection
with such real estate from and after the time when such fees, rents or charges
are due and payable and for the interest which may accrue thereon. Such liens
shall be superior to the interest of owner, lessee or tenant of such real
estate.
(1996 Code, § 128-49) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.120 PURPOSE OF RATES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall fix and revise from time to time rates, fees
and other charges for the use of and for the services furnished or to be
furnished by the sewer system and sewage disposal system, and operated by the
town. Such rates, fees and charges shall be so fixed and revised as to provide
funds, with other funds available for such purposes, sufficient at all times
to:
      (1)   Pay the costs of maintaining and operating the sewer system and
sewage disposal system, including reserves for such purposes and for
replacement and depreciation and necessary extensions;
      (2)   Pay the principal and interest on the revenue bonds as the same
shall become due and reserves therefor; and
      (3)   Provide a margin of safety for making such payments.
   (B)   The town shall charge and collect the rates, fees and charges so fixed
or revised, and such rates, fees and charges shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council shall make and enforce such rules and regulations as
it may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the
proper determination and collection of the rates and charges herein provided
and for the safe, efficient and economical management of the system. Such rules
and regulations, when not repugnant to existing ordinances of the town or laws
of the state, shall have the same force and effect as ordinances of the
Council.
(1996 Code, § 128-50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.121 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The funds received from the collection of the rates and charges hereinafter
provided shall be deposited, as received, with the Town Treasurer, who shall
keep the same in a separate fund designated “Sewer Revenue Fund.” Moneys in
said fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation,
maintenance, repair and management of the systems and for payment of debt
charges on bonds issued for construction of the system, and any surplus in said
fund over and above the requirements herein above mentioned may be used for
enlargements of and replacements to the system and parts thereof.
(1996 Code, § 128-51)
§ 53.122 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The service deposit for new water and sewer customers shall be as set forth
in §
51.14(C).
(1996 Code, § 128-52) (Ord. passed 7-1-2004)
§ 53.123 SEWER RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The following sewer rate structure is based on water consumption per
unit:
Number of Gallons Residential ($4.75 Commercial and     Residential Out-of-
Used              per 1,000 gallons) Industrial ($5.94  Town ($7.13 per 1,000
                                     per 1,000 gallons) gallons)
Number of Gallons    Residential ($4.75 Commercial and     Residential Out-of-
Used                 per 1,000 gallons) Industrial ($5.94  Town ($7.13 per
                                        per 1,000 gallons) 1,000 gallons)
0 to 999 (base rate) $15.75             $20.25             $23.63
1,000 to 1,999       $20.50             $26.19             $30.76
2,000 to 2,999       $25.25             $32.13             $37.89
3,000 to 3,999       $30.00             $38.07             $45.02
4,000 to 4,999       $34.75             $44.01             $52.15
5,000 to 5,999       $39.50             $49.95             $59.28
50,000               -                  $311.31            $373.00
60,000               -                  $370.71            $427.80
 
   (B)   For nonresidential use outside corporate limits, the rates shall be
50% higher.
(1996 Code, § 128-53) (Ord. passed 4-11-2006)
§ 53.124 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state law
   
70.02   Authority of Fire Department to direct traffic
   
70.03   Authority of rescue squad to direct traffic
   
70.04   Washing or greasing vehicle on street or sidewalk
   
70.05   Angle parking
   
70.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
70.07   Disabled parking
   
70.08   Fire lanes
   
70.09   Parking regulations
   
70.10   Parking at curb
   
70.11   Loading zones
   
70.12   Time limit parking
   
70.13   Exemption
   
70.14   Traffic tickets
   
70.15   Parking within marked area
   
70.16   License tax
   
70.17   Parking lots
   
70.18   No cruising areas
   
70.19   Random traffic checks
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Pursuant to authority of VA Code § 46.2-1313, as amended, all of the
provisions and requirements of the laws of the state contained in VA Code Title
46.2, in Article 9 (§§ 16.1-278 et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 16.1, and in
Article 2 (§§ 18.2-266 et seq.) of Chapter 7 of Title 18.2, effective July 1,
2013, except those provisions and requirements, the violation of which
constitutes a felony and except those provisions and requirements by which
their very nature can have no application to or within the town, are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference and made applicable within the
town. Reference to HIGHWAYS OF THE STATE contained in such provisions and
requirements hereby adopted shall be deemed to refer to the streets, highways
and other public ways within the town. Such provisions and requirements are
hereby adopted, mutatis mutandis and made a part of this chapter as fully as
though set forth at length herein, and it shall be unlawful for any person
within the town to violate or fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any
provisions of VA Code Title 46.2, VA Code Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9 (§§
16.1-278 et seq.), and of VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2 (§§ 18.2-266
et seq.) as amended, which are adopted by this section; provided, that in no
event shall the penalty imposed for the violation of any provisions or
requirement hereby adopted exceed the penalty imposed for a similar offense
under the aforementioned titles of the Code of Virginia.
(1996 Code, § 159-1) (Ord. passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Members of the Fire Department may direct or assist the police in directing
traffic at or in the immediate vicinity of a fire and, while so acting, shall
have all the authority of police officers.
(1996 Code, § 159-2)
§ 70.03 AUTHORITY OF RESCUE SQUAD TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Crew members of rescue squad vehicles which qualify as authorized emergency
vehicles, as specified in VA Code § 46.2-920, may direct or assist the police
in directing traffic at or in the immediate vicinity of an accident and, while
so acting, shall have all authority of police officers.
(1996 Code, § 159-3)
§ 70.04 WASHING OR GREASING VEHICLE ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall, for compensation, wash, polish or grease a vehicle upon a
street or sidewalk, nor shall the owner of a vehicle permit it to be washed,
polished or greased, for compensation, upon a street or sidewalk.
(1996 Code, § 159-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ANGLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck or automobile on any
public street or drive in the town, either in the daytime or nighttime, except
in a position parallel to and within 12 inches of the curb, unless permitted.
Angular parking shall be plainly designated by lines painted upon the surface
of the street indicating the angular lines wherein parking may be effective.
(1996 Code, § 159-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, except within a fully enclosed
building or structure or otherwise shielded or screened from public view, on
any property zoned for residential, industrial, agricultural or business
purposes any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, as defined in VA Code §
46.2-100, as amended, which is not in operating condition, or which for a
period of 60 days or longer had been partially or totally disassembled by the
removal of tires and wheels, the engine, or other essential parts required for
operation of the vehicle or on which there are displayed neither valid license
plates nor a valid inspection decal; provided, however, that the provisions of
this section shall not apply to a licensed business which on June 26, 1970 is
regularly engaged in business as an automobile dealer, salvage dealer or scrap
processor. The owners of property zoned for residential, industrial,
agricultural or commercial purposes shall, at such time or times as the Town
Council may prescribe, remove therefrom any such inoperative motor vehicles,
trailers or semitrailers that are not kept within a fully enclosed building or
structure or otherwise shielded or screened from public view. The Town Council
through its own agencies or employees may remove any such inoperative motor
vehicles, trailers or semitrailers, whenever the owner of the premises, after
reasonable notice, has failed to do so. In the event the town, through its own
agents or employees, removes any such motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailer
after giving additional notice of the owner of the vehicle, the cost of any
such removal and disposal shall be chargeable to the owner of the vehicle or
premises and may be collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
Every cost authorized by this section with which the owner of the premises
shall have been assessed shall constitute a lien against the property from
which the vehicle was removed, the lien to continue until actual payment of
such costs shall have been made to the town.
(1996 Code, § 159-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle not displaying disabled parking
license plates, an organizational removable windshield placard, a permanent
removable windshield placard, or a temporary removable windshield placard
issued under VA Code § 46.2-731 or DV disabled parking license plates issued
under VA Code § 46.2-739(B) to be parked in a parking space reserved for
persons with disabilities that limit or impair their ability to walk.
   (B)   A summons or parking ticket for the offense may be issued by law
enforcement officers and other uniformed personnel employed by the town to
enforce parking regulations without the necessity of a warrant’s being obtained
by the owner of the private parking area.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of this section shall not to exceed that
prescribed for a Class 4 misdemeanor, notwithstanding any other provision of
law.
(1996 Code, § 159-7) (Ord. passed 11-13-1984; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.08 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No vehicles other than Fire Department or other emergency vehicles
while performing their duties shall park in any parking space reserved by signs
posted according to law for fire lanes on public property or in privately owned
parking area open to the public.
   (B)   A summons for such offense may be issued by law enforcement officers
or uniformed law enforcement department employees without the necessity of a
warrant’s being obtained by the owner of such private parking area.
(1996 Code, § 159-8) (Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following place except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In any crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon a bridge;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite to the end of the safety zone;
   (E)   In any designated fire lane;
   (F)   In any designated handicapped space;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of a traffic, signal beacon or sign on the approaching
side;
   (H)   At any intersection or crosswalk as indicated by yellow line or no
parking sign;
   (I)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (J)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant where marked by signs or yellow
paint;
   (K)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (L)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
or on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of entrance when proper signs are posted;
   (M)   On any sidewalk or parkway; and
   (N)   At any place where official signs or curb markings indicate.
(1996 Code, § 159-9) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.10 PARKING AT CURB.
   (A)   Upon any street bordered by a curb, and upon any street where the area
for parking away from the travel portion of the street can be clearly
discerned, no vehicle shall be parked with the left side of said vehicle next
to the curb, or in the event there shall be no curb, next to the outside line
of the parking area paralleling the travel portion of the street, except on
one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a
street other than parallel with the curb or street and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb or
line, except upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the
purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business
street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(1996 Code, § 159-11) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.11 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stand or park a
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers or freight in any place designated as a loading zone,
marked as such, or in any of the following places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 50 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any library, hospital, medical clinic or post office;
   (B)   Not more than ten minutes at parking places so designated by signs as
the United States Post Office; and
   (C)   Within an alley in such a manner or under such condition as to leave
available less than ten feet of width of the roadway for the free movement of
vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an
alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any such property.
(1996 Code, § 159-12) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except on Sundays and legal
holidays designated by the commonwealth, it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle for a longer consecutive period of time than two hours in any area
designated as limited parking and so marked.
(1996 Code, § 159-13) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.13 EXEMPTION.
   Any person whose presence is compelled in any court of law, judicial or
administrative proceeding, as a plaintiff, defendant, witness, juror, judge,
police officer or attorney at law, or whereby such person’s failure to attend
would impede the orderly administration of justice or subject such person to
being found in contempt of the court or administrator, shall be exempt from any
liability for permitting such person’s vehicle to remain in an area designated
for two-hour parking for more than two hours. Upon the oath or affidavit of
such person stating such fact, and, upon verification by a police officer of
the town, such charge shall be dismissed.
(1996 Code, § 159-14) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991)
§ 70.14 TRAFFIC TICKETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person except a police officer or other
person charged by law with the duty of enforcing traffic laws in the town to
place or cause to be placed any traffic law violation ticket on or in any motor
vehicle of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any vehicle and traffic
violation ticket or other notice relating to traffic law violation in the town
after such ticket or notice has been placed on or in such vehicle by a police
officer, except for the purpose of answering such notice or ticket as required
therein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, change, erase,
substitute, add to or in any other way vary language, syllable or notation on
any such traffic violation ticket by a police officer or other person so
authorized by the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely swear that he or she
was compelled to attend any judicial or administrative proceedings so as to be
exempt from liability under §
70.12 as provided by §
70.13.
(1996 Code, § 159-15) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.15 PARKING WITHIN MARKED AREA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand a vehicle upon any
lines marked upon any pavement for the purpose of separating parking spaces, or
to so park a vehicle within such designated area so that any portion of the
vehicle overhangs such line.
(1996 Code, § 159-16) (Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.16 LICENSE TAX.
   The Town Council shall establish a fee for every motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer, owned or leased by any person, firm or corporation residing in or
having a place of business or occupation in the town, for use in said business
or occupation, or for personal use therein. The fee shall be present within the
town’s annual budget ordinance and shall be billed yearly with personal
property taxes. The Town Manager is empowered to act on behalf of the town to
interact with the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles to enforce this
section.
(1996 Code, § 159-18) (Ord. passed 7-5-2000; Ord. passed 3-10-2020)
§ 70.17 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the power vested in the town by VA Code § 46.2-1219, the
following traffic regulations shall apply upon all parking lots open to the
public designated to accommodate 50 or more vehicles:
      (1)   In all areas designated for vehicular traffic the speed limit shall
be 15 mph; and
      (2)   It shall be a traffic infraction to park in any area or areas
designated by signs or other appropriate markings prohibiting such parking, or
to drive upon or park upon areas designated for pedestrian traffic or for fire
lanes.
   (B)   Violation of any part of this section shall constitute a “traffic
infraction” as defined by VA Code § 46.2-1219, as amended.
(1996 Code, § 159-21)
§ 70.18 NO CRUISING AREAS.
   Upon application, in writing, by the owner or person in general charge of
the operation of such area to the chief law enforcement officer of the town,
the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   No person shall drive or permit a motor vehicle under his or her care,
custody or control to be driven past a traffic control point three or more
times within a two-hour period from 6:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m., Monday through
Sunday or around a “posted” or “no cruising” area so as to contribute to
congestion; obstruction of streets, sidewalks, parking lots or public vehicular
areas; impediment of access to shopping centers or other buildings open to the
public; or interference with the use of property or conduct of business in the
area adjacent thereto.
   (B)   At every point where a public street or alley becomes or provides
access to a “no cruising” area, there shall be posted a sign which designates
“no cruising” areas and times.
   (C)   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT, as used in this section, means any point or
points within the “no cruising” areas established by the chief law enforcement
officer of the town for the purpose of monitoring cruising.
   (D)   No violation shall occur except upon the third passage past the same
traffic control point within a two-hour period.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to in-service emergency vehicles,
taxicabs for hire, buses, vehicles being used for business in which a vehicle,
because of a wreck or other emergency, is parked or left temporarily on the
property.
   (F)   No person shall drive or permit a vehicle under his or her care,
custody or control to be driven, parked, stopped or left standing within any
area restricting such by signs conspicuously posted by the owner or person in
general charge of the area providing: no trespassing between the hours of __.m.
and__.m.
   (G)   Pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-1215, as amended, be it further ordained
that the owner, operator, lessee or authorized agent of one having control of
any parking lot or any part of a parking lot or area or of any other lot or
building shall have the authority to remove, by towing or otherwise, to a
licensed garage for storage until called for by the owner or his or her agent,
any car left standing or abandoned in any area posted with the “No Trespassing”
signs referred to in this chapter so long as the signs give notice that any
such vehicle, if parked without permission, will be removed, towed or
immobilized and the owner, operator, lessee or person in control of any such
area, upon the proper posting of each signs shall have the rights and remedies
prescribed by VA Code §§ 46.2-1215 et seq., as amended.
(1996 Code, § 159-22) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 70.19 RANDOM TRAFFIC CHECKS.
   (A)   The police officers of the town are authorized to participate with the
County Sheriff’s Department and State Department of Police in conducting road
blocks or traffic checks within the town under circumstances whereby the
Sheriff’s Department or state police have proper authority to proceed with such
traffic checks.
   (B)   The police officers of the town be authorized to initiate traffic
checks under the following circumstances:
      (1)   A life-threatening crime or crime involving the theft or
destruction of property has been recently committed within the town or within a
close proximity of the town so as to cause the police officer to believe that
there is a high possibility of apprehending the culprit if a road block was
established; and
      (2)   Random road blocks for the purpose of checking compliance with all
state and local motor vehicle laws and ordinances may be conducted after the
chief police officer in charge has filed with the Clerk of the Town Council a
designation of time and place of such road block not less than one hour prior
to the establishment of said road block.
   (C)   All random road blocks shall be conducted in accordance with the
following procedures.
      (1)   Names of police officers working the site shall be filed with the
designation.
      (2)   All police vehicles shall use either flashing blue lights or blue
rotary lights, together with traffic fuses as deemed necessary by the officer
in charge.
      (3)   The officer in charge shall determine, at all times, the adequacy
of the number of officers assigned to the checkpoints.
      (4)   The officer in charge may solicit and obtain the assistance of the
County Sheriff’s Department or the state police or any authorized law
enforcement officers.
      (5)   The officer may at any time, in his or her discretion, cancel the
checkpoint.
      (6)   The officer in charge shall determine that adequate space is
available to allow the officer to pull over vehicles for further examination
without creating a safety hazard to others using the highway.
      (7)   The site selected for the checkpoint shall be in an area where
motorists approaching the checkpoint will be unable to turn off or avoid the
checkpoint.
      (8)   The location of the checkpoint shall have adequate visibility to
all oncoming traffic in the direction from which the checkpoint is being
conducted.
      (9)   The officer conducting the check shall fully inform the operator of
the vehicle stopped of the purpose of the check and shall charge any violators
for any violation of any laws or infraction of any motor vehicle regulations.
      (10)   The officer in charge will keep a record of officers involved in
the check, the duration of the check, the number of vehicles stopped and number
of violations charged.
(1996 Code, § 159-23) (Ord. passed 6-14-1994)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violation of any provision of §§
70.09 through
70.14 and
Chapter 73, Schedule I shall be assessed the following fines.
         (a)   For unlawful parking in a handicap zone: An amount set by
Council from time to time for each offense.
         (b)   For unlawful parking in a fire lane: An amount set by Council
from time to time for each offense.
         (c)   For all other violations set forth in this chapter: An amount
set by Council from time to time for each offense.
      (2)   For each infraction, and the continuation of an infraction for the
period of more than two hours after any ticket, notice or citation has been
given indicating a violation thereof shall constitute a separate chargeable
infraction.
(1996 Code, § 159-17)
   (C)   Where there is a violation of any provision of §
70.18, the police officer of the town shall charge such violation on the
uniform traffic summons form and any person violating §
70.18 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine in an amount set by Council
from time to time. Any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
§
70.18 may be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for
each succeeding violation.
(1996 Code, § 159-22)
(Ord. passed 7-21-1980; Ord. passed 3-12-1991; Ord. passed 12-13-1994; Ord.
passed 1-12-1999)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Permit for occupancy required
   
71.02   Application for permit
   
71.03   Hearing
   
71.04   Approval or denial of application
   
71.05   Renewal applications
   
71.06   Vehicles exempt from regulations
   
71.07   Removal of vehicle
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PERMIT FOR OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to occupy a
trailer, motor home or similar vehicle, (herein referred to as the “vehicle”)
designed for temporary or permanent habitation, requiring a title certificate
by the Division of Motor Vehicles of the commonwealth, within the town, except
as temporary sojourners, and in no event for a period of more than two weeks,
without having obtained a permit from the town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter to OCCUPY shall mean to reside in as a
regular place of abode or in a manner to give the appearance that the vehicle
is used as a regular place of abode.
(1996 Code, § 163-1) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued to an applicant until the town shall have first
received from the applicant on forms provided by the town, the following:
   (A)   A list of the names and addresses of all owners and occupiers of land
adjoining, and within 2,500 feet of the boundary of the site upon which it is
proposed to place the said vehicle;
   (B)   The applicant shall furnish proof that he or she has caused to be
erected on the site a sign indicating his or her intent to apply for a permit,
with the applicant’s name and address conspicuously displayed thereon; and
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a deposit fee in an amount
set by Council from time to time to defray the costs of the investigation and
reports of the public agencies and the cost of the public notice required
herein, any amount of the deposit not used for costs shall be refunded to the
applicant.
(1996 Code, § 163-2)
§ 71.03 HEARING.
   Upon reasonable notice mailed to all persons listed in §
71.02(A), together with a notice of time and place and purpose published once a
week during the two preceding weeks in a newspaper having general circulation
in the town, the Town Council shall cause to be conducted a public hearing
before the Town Planning Commission (herein referred to as the Commission) and
in addition to reports and statements given by the public in attendance, the
Commission shall receive and make public reports, touching on the impact of the
proposed location of the vehicle on the specified area, upon the public health
and welfare of the portion of the community affected thereby, from the
following agencies:
   (A)   The County Health Department;
   (B)   The County Building Inspector;
   (C)   The Police Department of the town;
   (D)   The Public Works Department of the town; and
   (E)   The Fire Department of the town.
(1996 Code, § 163-3)
§ 71.04 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within five days after the conclusion of the public hearing the Commission
shall notify the applicant, of the approval or denial of the application upon
stated grounds.
   (A)   If the application is approved, the applicant shall within ten days
from receipt of notice, obtain the annual permit upon payment of the annual fee
in an amount set by Council from time to time and payment of the balance of any
costs incurred by the Commission in connection with the application and
hearing.
   (B)   Upon notice of denial, the applicant shall have the right to have the
application reviewed by the Town Council, at its regular meeting, or a special
meeting called for the purpose within 30 days whichever shall first occur, upon
notice of request for review, mailed or delivered to the town office, within
ten days from receipt of the notice of denial.
(1996 Code, § 163-4)
§ 71.05 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   Renewal applications must thereafter be made 30 days prior to the annual
license year which shall be January 1 of each succeeding year. No public
hearing shall be required on a renewal application unless requested by one or
more of the agencies listed in §
71.03, by the Commission or by any member of the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 163-5)
§ 71.06 VEHICLES EXEMPT FROM REGULATIONS.
   The requirement of §
71.03 shall not apply to vehicles already placed and used as a place of abode
on or before the date of enactment of this chapter, unless required by §
71.05.
(1996 Code, § 163-7)
§ 71.07 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   The removal of such vehicle from the site, except in the care of replacing
the vehicle by the same permittee shall immediately void the permit and no new
permit shall be issued without full compliance with this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 163-8)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with this chapter shall be
fined in an amount set by Council from time to time and each day of failure of
compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 163-6)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Street close to through truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following described street or parts of streets are hereby
designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated:
 
Name of Street    Direction of Travel Limits
Courthouse Street North               From Main Street to Davis Street
Hill Top Drive    South               Entire length
 
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, pay a fine
per motor vehicle infraction.
(1996 Code, § 159-19)
SCHEDULE II. STREET CLOSED TO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   The following streets or parts of streets are hereby declared to be closed
to through truck traffic:
 
Name of Street   Location
Power House Road From Locust Avenue to Oak Ridge Drive
 
(1996 Code, § 159-20)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   Parking is prohibited on the following streets or parts of streets during
the hours indicated:
 
Name of Street    Side Hours   Location
Courthouse Avenue West Anytime From Main Street to Davis Street
Lonesome Avenue   Both Anytime From Main Street to Davis Street
 
(1996 Code, § 159-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals in General
   
90.01   Town designated as bird sanctuary; killing or injuring birds
   
90.02   Livestock running at large
   
90.03   Fowl running at large
   
90.04   Killing or injuring squirrels
   
90.05   Keeping of livestock or swine
   
90.06   Keeping of bulls or stallions
   
90.07   Standing
   
90.08   Dangerous animals
   
90.09   Wholesale poultry yards
   
90.10   Removing manure from stables and cow lots
Dogs
   
90.25   Female dogs in heat
   
90.26   Barking or howling
   
90.27   Dogs running at large
ANIMALS IN GENERAL
§ 90.01 TOWN DESIGNATED AS BIRD SANCTUARY; KILLING OR INJURING BIRDS.
   (A)   The entire area within the corporate limits of the town shall be a
bird sanctuary for the protection of all birds, except starlings, black birds,
pigeons and English sparrows. Signs stating that the town is a bird sanctuary
may be erected in the town, provided that the types of signs and locations
thereof are first approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to intentionally
kill or injure any bird or destroy or injure the nests or eggs of any bird.
(1996 Code, § 71-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall permit his or her livestock to run at large in the
town.
   (B)   Livestock going to and from pasture shall not be deemed to be running
at large if attended by the owner thereof or the person furnishing pasture, or
the employee of either.
(1996 Code, § 71-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No fowl shall be permitted to run at large in the town.
(1996 Code, § 71-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 KILLING OR INJURING SQUIRRELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to
intentionally kill, maim or otherwise injure any squirrel found going at large
within the town.
(1996 Code, § 71-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK OR SWINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any pig sty, barn or privy to
allow the same to become so unclean that the odor from the same shall become a
nuisance or disagreeable to those living nearby.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep hogs within the corporate limits of the
town without a permit and permission from the Mayor and Town Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise or fatten any hog
or other penned livestock within the town. Each day on which any hog or pig or
other livestock is kept enclosed in a pen or shelter and pen within the
corporate limits of the town shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to those who bring hogs or pigs within
the town for the purpose of market or sale, provided that they be not kept
within the town for more than 24 hours. This section shall not apply to cows or
other livestock kept on pasture land within the town limits and not enclosed in
a pen or other space confined so as not to be sanitary.
(1996 Code, § 71-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 KEEPING OF BULLS OR STALLIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any bull, stallion or jackass within the
corporate limits unless kept within an enclosure so as to make it impossible
for such animal to escape.
   (B)   No such animal shall be grazed within the corporate limits, except in
such enclosure, whether in charge of an attendant or not, and shall not be
conducted from place to place within the corporate limits, except when securely
bridled and constantly in actual charge of some person over 16 years of age and
fully competent to control such animal.
(1996 Code, § 71-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 STANDING.
   No person shall permit a bull to serve a cow, or a stallion or jackass to
serve a mare within the corporate limits.
(1996 Code, § 71-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall permit any dangerous or vicious animal owned or kept
by him or her to go at large, with or without a license. Such animal so at
large shall be killed by order of the Judge of the General District Court if,
after two days’ notice from the Judge of the General District Court, such
animal is not removed beyond the corporate limits of the town by the owner
thereof.
   (B)   Complaint that any animal is dangerous shall be made to the Mayor, who
shall obtain a warrant from the Magistrate summoning the owner of the animal to
appear before the General District Court to answer the charge of permitting a
dangerous or vicious animal to be at large. The Judge of the General District
Court shall hear the evidence presented and determine whether or not the party
summoned is the owner of a dangerous or vicious animal. The occupant of any lot
or premises on which any dangerous animal shall be harbored for a period of
five days shall be deemed the owner of the animal.
(1996 Code, § 71-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 WHOLESALE POULTRY YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a wholesale poultry yard,
wherein quantities of fowl of any and all descriptions are gathered and kept
for call or shipment, within 80 feet of any place of human abode with the town.
(1996 Code, § 71-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 REMOVING MANURE FROM STABLES AND COW LOTS.
   All owners or persons in possession of stables and cow lots shall thoroughly
clean the same by removing all manure and shall spray the same with suitable
disinfectant at least once a week.
(1996 Code, § 71-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 90.25 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or is in possession of a bitch
to allow the same to run at large in the town while in heat. If the owner or
possessor of any such animal is not known to the Chief of Police or, being the
owner or possessor, fails to fasten up such animal during such period, either
before or after a conviction for a violation of this section, after having been
notified by the Chief of Police to do so, such animal shall be deemed to be a
nuisance, and the Chief of Police or any such person as is designated by the
Mayor may humanely destroy the same upon the order of the Mayor.
(1996 Code, § 71-12) (Ord. passed 1-14-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.26 BARKING OR HOWLING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog to cause, permit
or suffer such animal to bark, howl or make such other disturbance as to
disturb the quiet of any owner or occupier of any property adjoining or in the
vicinity of the property of the owner of the dog. Upon complaint being made to
a police officer of the town that the provisions of this section are being
violated, or as a result of any investigation by the officer, such officer
shall give notice of such violation to the owner or custodian of such dog and
order a discontinuance of the disturbance. Failure of the recipient of such
notice to comply with said order shall constitute an offense.
(1996 Code, § 71-13) (Ord. passed 1-14-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.27 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog, whether licensed
or not, to allow such dog to run at large in the town at any time of the year.
For the purpose of this section, a dog shall be deemed to run at large while
roaming, running or self-hunting off of the property of the owner or custodian
of such dog, while not on a leash nor under the control of and accompanied by
such owner or custodian. Upon complaint being made to the town police that the
provisions of this section are being violated, such officer may, after
investigation, notify the County Animal Control Warden, who may then impound
the dog, with disposition of such dog being subject to the county ordinances
and regulations.
(1996 Code, § 71-14) (Ord. passed 1-14-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Regulations supplemental to other nuisance provisions
   
91.02   Nuisances prohibited
   
91.03   Nuisances enumerated
   
91.04   Responsibility of property owners, occupants and others
   
91.05   Inspections and investigations
   
91.06   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
91.07   Notice to cease and desist
   
91.08   Notice to abate condition; appeal
   
91.09   Remedying of conditions by town; assessment of costs
Cross-reference:
   Creation of nuisances by granting of variance, see §
152.10
   Mobile home parks, see §
153.047(H)
   Nonconforming structures in Floodplain Districts, see §
152.11
§ 91.01 REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER NUISANCE PROVISIONS.
   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other chapters of this code,
and it is the intent of the Town Council in enacting this chapter to make it
supplemental to those other chapters in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited, and the provisions of this chapter relating to the abatement of
nuisances shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the
abatement of nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures
for abatement are provided.
(1996 Code, § 113-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, harbor, commit or maintain, or
to suffer to be caused, harbored, committed or maintained, any nuisance as
defined by the statutes or common law of this state or as defined by this code
or other ordinance of the town at any place within the town.
(1996 Code, § 113-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 NUISANCE ENUMERATED.
   (A)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the town are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being or thing kept, maintained,
placed or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious or
annoying to the public. All downed trees, includign root ball, will be removed
within 60 days of occurrence or discovery;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water and all foul or dirty water or
liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe or spout or thrown into or upon
any street, public place or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter or other article thrown or placed by any person on or
in any street, sidewalk or other public place, which in any way may cause any
injury or annoyance to the public. Only organic materials readily susceptible
to decay or rot may be maintained in compost piles for the express purpose of
producing compost for use on the property where it is located. Examples of such
acceptable materials include leaves, grass clippings, food scraps, etc. Compost
piles must be well-controlled, screened from public view, and maintained to
prevent the contents from burning or blowing off the subject property. No other
materials, such as trash, rubbish, tires, or similar waste materials, may be
accumulated on any property. Compost piles which stink or produce foul or
offense orders beyond the subject property lines must be either removed or
appropriately confined to prevent the smell from escaping the subject property;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition or out of repair;
      (7)   All stables, cattle yards, hog, sheep or cow pens or yards or
structures for poultry permitted by the owner thereof or the person responsible
therefor to be harboring or breeding places for rodents or otherwise to be in
such a condition as to become offensive, annoying or injurious to the public or
to persons in the neighborhood thereof;
      (8)   All houses or buildings used for special storage of powder,
dynamite or other explosive substances, except those maintained pursuant to a
permit issued by a competent authority; and
      (9)   All septic tanks, privies, cesspools and privy vaults of a type
prohibited by state law or by rules and regulations promulgated by authority of
state law, or which are maintained in any manner contrary to state law or rules
and regulations promulgated by authority of state law or which otherwise
constitute a menace to the health of or are offensive to persons in the
neighborhood thereof.
      (10)   Grass, weeds, or similar vegetation in excess of eight inches in
height shall be deemed to be a nuisance subject to trimming or mowing by the
town, or its agents, at the expense of the property owner.
      (11)   All vehicle parking must be in compliance with Chapter 70 of this
code.
   (B)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the
state when committed, omitted or existing within the town limits is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 113-3) (Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 91.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS, OCCUPANTS AND OTHERS.
   (A)   Each owner lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any real
property within the town, and each agent or representative of any such person,
is hereby charged with responsibility for the maintenance and use of such real
property in such manner that no use of or activity or condition upon or within
such real property shall constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   All such persons are hereby charged with the duty of observing all of
the provisions of this chapter, but such responsibility shall not be construed
to permit any other person not charged with such responsibility to commit or
maintain any nuisance upon or within any real property in the town.
(1996 Code, § 113-4)
§ 91.05 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Building
Official and the Chief of Police to cause inspections to be made from time to
time of all portions of the town to determine whether any condition exists or
activity is being practiced which constitutes a nuisance, and they shall cause
an investigation to be made upon complaint made by any responsible person.
(1996 Code, § 113-5)
§ 91.06 RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   Town officers shall have the right to enter upon private premises for the
purposes specified in §
91.05 upon compliance with all applicable provisions of law. Unless it appears
probable that advance warning would defeat the purpose of such entry, occupants
of premises to be entered shall be given reasonable notice in advance, and, in
any case, it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to prevent such entry
which is sought to be made in compliance with law.
(1996 Code, § 113-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST.
   If at any time a town officer shall find that an activity or practice which
constitutes a nuisance is occurring within the town, he or she shall promptly
and by the most expeditious means notify the violator to cease and desist
forthwith.
(1996 Code, § 113-7)
§ 91.08 NOTICE TO ABATE CONDITION; APPEAL.
   If at any time a town officer shall find that a condition which constitutes
a nuisance exists within the town, he or she shall give notice in writing to
the owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises upon which such
condition exists, stating therein the condition which constitutes a nuisance
and directing such addressee to remedy the condition within the time stated in
such notice, which shall be not more than ten days. It shall be unlawful for
any such owner, occupant or person in charge to fail to comply with the terms
of such notice, provided that any owner, occupant or person in charge may,
within two days from the service thereof, appeal to the Town Council, in which
case the terms of such notice shall be stayed pending action of the Town
Council, which shall be final; provided, further, that if the officer giving
notice shall state in such notice that the condition which constitutes a
nuisance is such as to be an imminent hazard to the health, safety or welfare
of the public or any person within or near the premises upon which such
nuisance exists, then the addressee shall comply with the terms of such notice.
(1996 Code, § 113-8)
§ 91.09 REMEDYING OF CONDITIONS BY TOWN; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   Upon the failure of any person to whom notice has been given pursuant to §
91.08 to comply with the terms of such notice or with the terms imposed by the
Town Council on appeal, as the case may be, the officer giving such notice
shall forthwith direct the appropriate town officer to remedy the condition
which is the subject of such notice, and the expense incurred by the town in so
doing shall be charged to the addressee of such notice, to be collected as town
taxes or in any manner authorized by law.
(1996 Code, § 113-9)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Protection
   
92.01   Adoption of standards by reference
   
92.02   False alarms
   
92.03   Interfering with firefighters
   
92.04   Stopping in vicinity of fire
   
92.05   Vehicles not to block streets
   
92.06   Obstructing fire hydrant or fire landings
   
92.07   Obedience to orders of Chief of Fire
   
92.08   Unauthorized interference
   
92.09   Turning off electric current
   
92.10   Reporting injury to equipment or other violations
Open Burning
   
92.25   Precautions to prevent spread of fire
   
92.26   Burning restricted during certain months
   
92.27   Nonapplicability to railroad companies
   
92.28   Total extinguishment of fires required
   
92.29   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
31.01 through
31.05
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The Statewide Fire Prevention Code as provided for in VA Code §§ 27-94 et
seq. is applicable in the town.
(1996 Code, § 96-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Provide for the overall safety, health and welfare of the public;
      (2)   Enhance the safety of Police and Fire Department personnel;
      (3)   Reduce an undue burden on the resources of the town and its Police
and Fire Departments; and
      (4)   Encourage property owners to remedy conditions which lead to
excessive alarms.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, Police Department, and the Fire
Marshal each are authorized to bill to the owner of any premises from which a
false alarm originated a charge or penalty, as set forth in the schedule given
in division (D), for any false alarms in excess of two during a consecutive 12-
month period. Any fee charged will be due and payable within 30 days after
mailing to the owner at the address from which the alarm originated or address
of the owner shown on the real estate tax records for such premises. Such fees
are payable directly to the town and the town shall take any and all actions
reasonably necessary to collect such payments if not paid in a timely manner.
   (C)   No fee will be charged, and an alarm will not be counted toward the
allowance of two free calls, where the false alarm was caused by an act of
nature, power outage, erroneous but good-faith calls based on the reasonable
suspicion that a fire was occurring, or intentional or malicious false alarms
triggered by third parties over whom the owner has no control or
responsibility.
   (D)   The following charges will apply:
      (1)   Only false alarm in preceding 12 months: No charge.
      (2)   Second in preceding 12 months: No charge.
      (3)   Third in preceding 12 months: $50.
      (4)   Fourth in preceding 12 months: $100.
      (5)   Fifth in preceding 12 months: $200.
      (6)   Sixth or subsequent in preceding 12 months: $400.
    (E)   Any property owner who disputes the calculation of the charge or who
claims an exception under division (C) may appeal the charge in writing to the
Town Manager within the 30-day payment period. The Town Manager is authorized
to void or modify the charges if he or she determines an error was made or an
exception applies. Upon determination of the Town Manager of the correct
charges, payment must be made within ten business days thereafter, or the Town
Manager is to begin appropriate collection actions. Upon exhaustion of the
right to review by the Town Manager, any property owner may contest the charge
in an appropriate court having jurisdiction, but must do so within 15 days or
the applicable statutory period, if one exists, whichever is longer, or the
owner will be deemed to have waived their right to adjudicate the matter.
(1996 Code, § 96-2) (Ord. passed 4-10-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any person who hinders, delays, interferes with or resists any member of the
Fire Company, or the substitute of any such member who may be absent, while in
the discharge of his or her duty shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor.
(1996 Code, § 96-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 STOPPING IN VICINITY OF FIRE.
   The town adopts by reference the provisions of VA Code § 46.2-890 pertaining
to stopping in the vicinity of a fire or other emergency.
(1996 Code, § 96-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 VEHICLES NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to remain in such a position as to
block the street, alleys or fire approaches when the fire alarm sounds and
thereafter for such time as may be necessary for the fire apparatus to pass
well clear.
(1996 Code, § 96-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANT OF FIRE LANDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any vehicle or obstruction
within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or plug or to obstruct the sight of the same
by hitching, placing building material, boxes, cans or in any manner whatsoever
obstructing the sight, the easy approach to or the convenient use of the same
by the Fire Department, or to obstruct the fire approaches or landings.
(1996 Code, § 96-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF CHIEF OF FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person at a fire to refuse or neglect to obey
any order duly given by the Fire Chief or his or her assistant in command.
(1996 Code, § 96-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 UNAUTHORIZED INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful of any person not a regular member of the Fire Company
to get on, remove anything from, place anything on or interfere with or meddle
with the fire apparatus without permission of the Fire Company’s officer in
charge.
(1996 Code, § 96-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 TURNING OFF ELECTRIC CURRENT.
   During any fire, the Fire Chief or any of his or her assistants may order
any electric light or power company to cut off the electric current from its
wires, wherever it may be considered necessary to preserve life or property,
and it shall be unlawful for any of such companies to maintain current on its
wires after receiving such order.
(1996 Code, § 96-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 REPORTING INJURY TO EQUIPMENT OR OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of all members of the Fire Department to report any
person defacing or injuring any apparatus or equipment of such Department or in
any manner violating any regulation or law pertaining to the Fire Department.
(1996 Code, § 96-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.25 PRECAUTIONS TO PREVENT SPREAD OF FIRE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of land to set fire to,
or to procure another to set fire to, any woods, brush, logs, leaves, grass,
debris or other inflammable material upon such land unless he or she previously
has taken all reasonable care and precaution, by having cut and piled the same
or carefully cleared around the same, to prevent the spread of such fire to
lands other than those owned or leased by him or her.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any employee of any such owner or lessee
of land to set fire to, or to procure another to set fire to, any woods, brush,
logs, leaves, grass, debris or other inflammable material upon such land unless
he or she has taken similar precautions to prevent the spread of such fire to
any other land.
(1996 Code, § 96-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 BURNING RESTRICTED DURING CERTAIN MONTHS.
   During the period beginning March 1 and ending May 15 of each year, even
though the precautions required by §
92.25 have been taken, it shall be unlawful, in any county or city or portion
thereof organized for forest fire control under the direction of the State
Forester, for any person to set fire to, or to procure another to set fire to,
any brush, leaves, grass, debris or field containing dry grass or other
inflammable material capable of spreading fire, located in or within 300 feet
of any woodland, brushland or field containing dry grass or other inflammable
material, except between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
(1996 Code, § 96-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 NONAPPLICABILITY TO RAILROAD COMPANIES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any fires which may be
set on rights-of-way of railroad companies by their authorized employees.
(1996 Code, § 96-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.28 TOTAL EXTINGUISHMENT OF FIRES REQUIRED.
   Any person who builds a fire in the open air, or uses a fire built by
another in the open air, within 150 feet of any woodland, brushland or field
containing dry grass or other inflammable material, shall totally extinguish
the fire before leaving the area and shall not leave the fire unattended.
(1996 Code, § 96-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.29 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99. If any forest fire originates as a result of the violation by any person
of any provision of this chapter, such person shall, in addition to the above
penalty, be liable to the commonwealth for the full amount of all expenses
incurred by the commonwealth in suppressing such fire. Such amounts shall be
recoverable by action brought by the State Forester in the name of the
commonwealth and credited to the Forestry Operations Fund.
(1996 Code, § 96-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streetlighting
   
93.01   Standards
   
93.02   Residential request; petition
   
93.03   Investigation of request by committee
Snow and Ice Removal
   
93.15   Requirements for removal by owner or resident
   
93.16   Removal by town; costs
STREETLIGHTING
§ 93.01 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The minimum closest interval for placement of new lights will be as
follows:
      (1)   In a residential area: 200 feet; and
      (2)   In a commercial area: 100 feet.
   (B)   Mounting height will be 25 feet minimum vertically from pavement to
lamp.
   (C)   Wooden poles will be allowed when overhead electrical distribution is
used.
   (D)   All areas with underground electrical distribution must use
underground-wired streetlights mounted on concrete or metal poles.
(1996 Code, § 139-1)
§ 93.02 RESIDENTIAL REQUEST; PETITION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request from a resident for installation of a new
streetlight, the town will send a blank petition to the applicant.
   (B)   The petition shall require the signatures of at least 51% of those
residents within 200 feet of the requested location. This location shall, be
described on the petition and the number of the utility pole nearest that
location shall be listed.
(1996 Code, § 139-2)
§ 93.03 INVESTIGATION OF REQUEST BY COMMITTEE.
   Upon receipt of the signed petition, the Streetlight Committee will
investigate the request and will locate the light in accordance with the town’s
overall plan for streetlighting if applicable.
(1996 Code, § 139-3)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 93.15 REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL BY OWNER OR RESIDENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or other occupant of
building or lot in any area in the town zoned for business or industry to cause
the paved sidewalks adjacent thereto to be cleared of snow or ice during any
business day within two hours after the snow has ceased falling unless the snow
shall have fallen during the night in which case it shall be removed by 10:00
a.m. on the following business day; and in the event of the presence of ice
that cannot be readily removed, it may be covered with abrasives or other
material which would make the sidewalks safe for travel.
   (B)   Where the premises in question consists of a building with more than
one floor, then the owner, tenant or occupant of the street level floor shall
be responsible for complying with this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 139-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 REMOVAL BY TOWN; COSTS.
   (A)   Where there is no tenant or other occupant for the premises in
question, the owner of the premises shall be responsible for the removal of
snow or ice from the sidewalk and in cases where the owner or tenant or other
occupant of the property in question cannot be found the town may have the
sidewalks cleaned at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   The town may give to such owner or occupant who shall fail to comply
to this subchapter such notice as is reasonable to see that the provisions
hereof are enforced. And, in addition to any costs incurred by the town in
removal of the snow and ice aforesaid, the owner, tenant or occupier of the
property shall pay to the town a penalty of 20% of the costs of removal.
(1996 Code, § 139-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Protection
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PROTECTION.
   (A)   Any tree which has been individually designated by the town or which
grows in the street right-of-way or on private property as authorized by the
owner or placed or planted there by the town shall be protected pursuant to
authority vested in the town by VA Code § 10.1-1127.1, as amended.
   (B)   This chapter shall also protect the trees within the Historic District
of the town.
(1996 Code, § 155-1)
   (C)   No such tree shall be removed or damaged without the express consent
of the Town Council of the town.
(1996 Code, § 155-2)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a civil penalty not
to exceed an amount set by Council from time to time for each violation.
(1996 Code, § 155-2)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Sale; prohibited hours
   
110.02   Possession of illegal alcoholic beverages and drugs
   
110.03   Public drunkenness
§ 110.01 SALE; PROHIBITED HOURS.
   Any violation of this section shall be punished as a Class 1 misdemeanor
with a right of appeal pursuant to VA Code § 16.1-106.
(1996 Code, § 63-2)
(Ord. passed 1-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 POSSESSION OF ILLEGAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND DRUGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
town to possess any alcoholic beverage or liquor which does not bear a stamp or
mark indicating that all applicable state and/or federal taxes have been paid,
or for any person to possess within the town any marijuana or other harmful
drug or substance unless otherwise authorized by law.
(1996 Code, § 63-3)
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 63-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place under
the influence of alcohol or any intoxicant or self-administered drug within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(1996 Code, § 63-5)
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 63-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Billiard, Pool and Video Game Rooms
   
111.01   Operating hours
   
111.02   Minors
   
111.03   Unobstructed view of interior
Dance Halls
   
111.15   Definition
   
111.16   Permit required
   
111.17   Revocation of permit
   
111.18   Restrooms
   
111.19   Maintenance of order
   
111.20   Food and drink
   
111.21   Disposal of refuse
   
111.22   Fire extinguishers and exits
   
111.23   Parking spaces and attendants
   
111.24   Approval of sanitary facilities and fire prevention measures required
   
111.25   Hours
Musical or Entertainment Festivals
   
111.40   Purpose; construal of provisions
   
111.41   Definition
   
111.42   Permit required
   
111.43   Filing of applications
   
111.44   Action by Council on permit applications
   
111.45   Conditions for granting of permit
   
111.46   Duration restrictions
   
111.47   Minors to be accompanied by parent or guardian
   
111.48   Right of entry by town officials
Cross-references:
   Curfew for minors, see
Ch. 132
   Gaming tables and slot machines, see §
130.093
BILLIARD, POOL AND VIDEO GAME ROOMS
§ 111.01 OPERATING HOURS.
   All video game rooms, billiards, saloons, pool rooms and shooting galleries
shall be closed every night during the week not later than 12:00 midnight and
remain closed until 7:00 a.m.
(1996 Code, § 67-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 MINORS.
   No minor under 16 years of age shall be employed in, play in or loaf or
loiter in or frequent any billiard saloon or poolroom, unless attended by a
parent, nor shall any owner or keeper of any such room as set forth above allow
any minor to violate the provisions of this section.
(1996 Code, § 67-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW OF INTERIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or keeping a billiard room or
poolroom to erect or put up curtains, stained-glass windows or any other
obstruction that will prevent a clear view from the street into any such
establishment.
(1996 Code, § 67-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
DANCE HALLS
§ 111.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL. Any place open to the general public where dancing is
permitted.
(1996 Code, § 67-5)
§ 111.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a dance shall in the town unless he or she has an
unrevoked permit from the Town Council so to do. No permit shall be issued
under this section unless all the requirements of this subchapter are complied
with.
(1996 Code, § 67-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits to operate a dance hall may be revoked by the Town Council for a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter; provided, that the
holder of such permit shall be entitled to a hearing before the Town Council
after reasonable notice prior to any action to be taken by the Town Council as
to revocation of such permit.
(1996 Code, § 67-7)
§ 111.18 RESTROOMS.
   In every dance hall in the town, there shall be a separate men’s and ladies’
rest room.
(1996 Code, § 67-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 MAINTENANCE OF ORDER.
   The owner or operator of every dance hall in the town shall maintain good
order and conduct at all times within his or her dance hall.
(1996 Code, § 67-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.20 FOOD AND DRINK.
   All food sold in any dance hall in the town shall be packaged, and all soft
drinks sold therein shall be dispensed in paper or plastic cups.
(1996 Code, § 67-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   In every dance hall in the town, there shall be sufficient containers for
refuse both outside and inside the hall, and all refuse in the immediate
vicinity shall be placed in such containers after each dance.
(1996 Code, § 67-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND EXITS.
   In every dance hall in the town, fire extinguishers shall be readily
accessible at all times. Fire exit doors shall be clearly marked and shall be
unobstructed during the hours of operation as a dance hall. Fire exits shall be
safe and illuminated on the outside.
(1996 Code, § 67-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 PARKING SPACES AND ATTENDANTS.
   For every dance hall in the town, there shall be adequate parking space with
attendants on duty to assist in parking cars and to prevent the rifling of
cars.
(1996 Code, § 67-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 APPROVAL OF SANITARY FACILITIES AND FIRE PREVENTION MEASURES REQUIRED.
   No permit shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
until the Health Officer has approved the sanitary facilities and until the
Fire Chief has approved the fire prevention measures. Such permit may be
revoked if either the Health Officer or the Fire Chief rescinds such approval.
(1996 Code, § 67-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 HOURS.
   No dance hall in the town shall operate as such from 12:00 midnight Saturday
night until 8:00 p.m. on Monday night. During any other night, no dance hall
shall operate as such, except during the hours between 8:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m.
(1996 Code, § 67-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
MUSICAL OR ENTERTAINMENT FESTIVALS
§ 111.40 PURPOSE; CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council recognizes that, in the interest of preserving the
public health, protecting property and preserving peace and good order in the
town, it is necessary and proper to enact this subchapter to provide for the
control and regulation of musical or entertainment festivals conducted in the
open and of groups or gatherings of persons for the purpose of listening to or
participating in such festivals. This subchapter is enacted for the purpose of
providing necessary regulation for the conducting of musical or entertainment
festivals conducted in open spaces not within an enclosed structure and of any
gathering of groups or individuals for the purpose of listening to or
participating in entertainment which consists primarily of musical renditions
conducted in open spaces not within an enclosed structure in the interest of
the public health, the protection of property and preserving peace and good
order within the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be liberally construed in
order to effectively carry out the expressed purposes thereof.
(1996 Code, § 67-17)
§ 111.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUSICAL OR ENTERTAINMENT FESTIVAL. Any gathering of groups or individuals
for the purpose of listening to or participating in entertainment which
consists of musical renditions conducted in open spaces not within an enclosed
structure.
(1996 Code, § 67-18)
§ 111.42 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall stage, promote or conduct any musical or entertainment
festival in the town unless there shall have first been obtained from the Town
Council a special entertainment permit to do so.
(1996 Code, § 67-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 FILING OF APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for special entertainment permits shall be in writing on forms
provided for the purpose and filed in duplicate with the Town Clerk at least 21
days before the date of such festival. Such applications shall have attached
thereto and made a part thereof the plans, statements, approvals and other
documents required by this subchapter. A copy of such application shall be sent
by certified mail by the Town Clerk to each member of the Town Council the day
such applications are filed, if the post office is open, otherwise on the next
following day in which the post office is open.
(1996 Code, § 67-20)
§ 111.44 ACTION BY COUNCIL ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   The Town Council shall act on each such application within ten days from the
filing thereof. If approved, the permit applied for shall be issued in writing
on a form for the purpose and mailed by the Town Clerk to the applicant at the
address indicated. If denied, the refusal shall be in writing and the reasons
for such denial stated therein and mailed by the Town Clerk to the applicant at
the address indicated.
(1996 Code, § 67-21)
§ 111.45 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   No permit under this subchapter shall be issued unless the following
conditions are met and the following plans, statements and approvals submitted
to the Town Council with the application:
   (A)   The application shall have attached to it a copy of the ticket or
badge of admission to the festival, containing the date or dates and the time
or times of the festival, together with a statement by the applicant of the
total number of tickets to be offered for sale and the best reasonable estimate
by the applicant of the number of persons expected to be in attendance;
   (B)   A statement of the name and address of the promoters of the festival,
the financial backing of the festival and the names of all persons or groups
who will perform at the festival;
   (C)   A statement of the location of the proposed festival, the name and
address of the owner of the property on which the festival is to be held and
the nature and interest of the applicant therein;
   (D)   A plan for adequate sanitation facilities and garbage, trash and
sewage disposal for person at the festival. This plan shall meet the
requirements of all state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations and
shall be approved by the Health Officer;
   (E)   A plan for providing food, water and lodging for the persons at the
festival. This plan shall meet the requirements of all state and local
statutes, ordinances and regulations and shall be approved by the Health
Officer;
   (F)   A plan for adequate medical facilities and traffic control in and
around the festival area;
   (G)   A plan for adequate parking facilities and traffic control in and
around the festival area;
   (H)   A plan for adequate fire protection. This plan shall meet the
requirements of all state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations and
shall be approved by the Chief of the Fire Department;
   (I)   A statement specifying whether any outdoor lights or lighting is to be
utilized, and if so, a plan showing the location of such lights and shielding
devices or other equipment to prevent unreasonable glow beyond the property on
which the festival is located; and
   (J)   A statement that no music shall be played, either by mechanical device
or live performance, in such a manner that the sound emanating therefrom shall
be unreasonably audible beyond the property on which the festival is located.
(1996 Code, § 67-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 DURATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Music shall not be rendered nor entertainment provided for more than eight
hours in any 24-hour period, such 24 hour periods to be measured from the
beginning of the first performance at the festival. Town festivals are exempt.
(1996 Code, § 67-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 MINORS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to any festival unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian, the parent or guardian to remain with such
minor person at all times.
(1996 Code, § 67-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.48 RIGHT OF ENTRY BY TOWN OFFICIALS.
   No person shall be issued a permit under this subchapter unless the
application shall furnish to the Town Council written permission for the Town
Council, its lawful agents or duly constituted law enforcement officers to go
upon the property at any time for the purpose of determining compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The Town Council shall have the right to
revoke any permit issued under this subchapter upon noncompliance with any of
its provisions and conditions.
(1996 Code, § 67-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PEACE AND GOOD ORDER
      
131.   NUCLEAR WASTE
      
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: PEACE AND GOOD ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Giving false information to police officers
   
130.002   Resisting an officer
   
130.003   Failure to assist an officer
   
130.004   Imitating police whistle
   
130.005   Assault and battery
   
130.006   Failure to obey summons
Dangerous Weapons
   
130.020   Sale of dangerous weapons and tobacco to minors
   
130.021   Throwing or discharging dangerous missiles
   
130.022   Discharge of firearms
   
130.023   Regulation of concealed weapons
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.035   Use of violent or abusive language
   
130.036   Disturbing public assemblies
   
130.037   Disturbing public worship
   
130.038   Loitering near schools; following students
   
130.039   Indecent exposure; obscene acts and language
   
130.040   Sending threatening messages
Petit Larceny
   
130.055   Concealment of merchandise on premises of a store
   
130.056   Petit larceny
Trespass and Injury to Private Property
   
130.070   Trespass on public or private property prohibited
   
130.071   Defacing posted advertisements
   
130.072   Pulling down fences and leaving gates open
   
130.073   Injury to trees
Vice
   
130.085   Loitering
   
130.086   Renting of property for use as house of ill-fame
   
130.087   Owner of property used as house of ill-fame
   
130.088   Persons frequenting houses of ill-fame
   
130.089   Keeping of houses of ill-fame
   
130.090   Indecent books, pictures and statuary
   
130.091   Adultery or fornication
   
130.092   Gambling houses
   
130.093   Gaming tables and slot machines
Cross-reference:
   Barking and howling dogs, see §
90.26
   Curfew, see
Chapter 132
   Public drunkenness, see §
110.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give a false statement or information
to any police officer of the town.
(1996 Code, § 118-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.002 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist or abuse or obstruct or hinder any officer or
employee of the town in the discharge of his or her duty, or any contractor or
other person in the execution of any work for the town.
(1996 Code, § 118-1.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.003 FAILURE TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   No person shall fail or refuse to assist a police officer when called upon
to do so by such officer when in the discharge of his or her duty.
(1996 Code, § 118-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.004 IMITATING POLICE WHISTLE.
   No person shall blow a whistle in imitation of the police signal or attempt
to do so.
(1996 Code, § 118-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.005 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   Any person who shall be guilty of riot, rout or unlawful assembly or assault
and battery or any offense that will amount to a breech of the peace shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 118-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.006 FAILURE TO OBEY SUMMONS.
   Any person who fails to obey the requirements of a summons shall, upon being
found guilty, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 118-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
DANGEROUS WEAPONS
§ 130.020 SALE OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, barter, give or furnish, or cause to be sold,
bartered, given or furnished, to any minor under 18 years of age cigarettes or
tobacco in any form or firearms, dirks or Bowie knives, having good cause to
believe such minor to be under 18 years of age.
   (B)   The term FIREARMS as used in this section shall be construed to
include any gun, rifle or pistol adapted to the use in any form of powder or
shot (or balls) or cartridges, whether such firearms be called “toy pistols,”
“toy guns” or otherwise.
(1996 Code, § 118-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.021 THROWING OR DISCHARGING DANGEROUS MISSILES.
   No person shall in any street throw stones, sticks or other dangerous
missiles or discharge arrows, nails or bullets from a bow or crossbow or
anywhere within the town limits discharge shot, gravel, bullets or other
similar substances from a gravel shooter, air gun or similar implement.
(1996 Code, § 118-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.022 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall shoot any gun, pistol or other firearm within the limits of
the town, except in the case of urgent necessity or in licensed shooting
galleries.
(1996 Code, § 118-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.023 REGULATION OF CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   If any person carries about his or her person, hid from common observation,
any pistol, dirk, Bowie knife, razor, slingshot or any weapon of like kind, he
or she shall be punished as provided in §
10.99, and such weapons shall be forfeited and sold, in such manner as the
Judge may deem best and the proceeds paid into the town treasury; provided,
however, that no person shall be punishable under this section who has been
granted permission to carry concealed weapons in accordance with the laws of
the state.
(1996 Code, § 118-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.035 USE OF VIOLENT OR ABUSIVE LANGUAGE.
   No person shall, in the presence or hearing of another, cause or abuse such
other person or use any violent or abusive language to such person concerning
himself or herself or any of his or her relations, or otherwise use such
language, under circumstances reasonably calculated to provoke a breach of the
peace.
(1996 Code, § 118-10) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.036 DISTURBING PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   No person or persons shall willfully or otherwise disturb any assembly or
persons at a theater or other place of assembly, whether he or she be in or
outside of said assembly.
(1996 Code, § 118-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.037 DISTURBING PUBLIC WORSHIP.
   No person shall willfully interrupt or disturb any assembly met for the
worship of God.
(1996 Code, § 118-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.038 LOITERING NEAR SCHOOLS; FOLLOWING STUDENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, under pretext of
exercising his or her or their right, to be on the public streets, to loiter
near the premises of any female or public school in the town for the purpose of
prying therein or to hold surreptitious communication with any of the pupils in
the pursuit of their studies or amusements or in the observance of the
regulations of such institution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to accompany or follow
any pupil of any female school in the town or of the public schools without the
permission of the parent or guardian of the pupil or the teacher in charge of
the pupil or to otherwise interfere with or annoy any such pupil.
(1996 Code, § 118-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.039 INDECENT EXPOSURE; OBSCENE ACTS AND LANGUAGE.
   No person shall indecently expose himself or herself or do any obscene act
or write obscene language or make obscene marks on any wall, fence or other
thing or address any obscene, lewd or profane language or words to another or
make use of such language within the hearing of another.
(1996 Code, § 118-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.040 SENDING THREATENING MESSAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to send any messages or communication
threatening another with any punishment other than that contemplated by law.
(1996 Code, § 118-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
PETIT LARCENY
§ 130.055 CONCEALMENT OF MERCHANDISE ON PREMISES OF A STORE.
   No person, without authority, shall willfully conceal the goods or
merchandise of any store while still upon the premises of such store.
(1996 Code, § 118-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.056 PETIT LARCENY.
   If any person shall steal from the person of another, money or other things
of value of less than $5, or if any person commits simple larceny, not from the
person of another, of goods and chattels, of less value than $200, he or she
shall be deemed guilty of petit larceny. If found guilty of petit larceny, he
or she shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1996 Code, § 118-18) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRESPASS AND INJURY TO PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 130.070 TRESPASS ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   If any person shall unlawfully trespass upon private property within
the town, he or she shall, upon the complaint of the owner or occupant of such
property, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   In cases where the trespass is committed upon the property owned by
the town or other public property, upon complaint, the offender shall be fined
in like manner as aforesaid.
(1996 Code, § 118-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.071 DEFACING POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall tear down or deface any design, bills or advertisement, so
long as the same may be of any benefit to the party posting it, provided that
nothing herein shall prevent anyone from tearing down advertisements posted on
his or her premises.
(1996 Code, § 118-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.072 PULLING DOWN FENCES AND LEAVING GATES OPEN.
   No person shall, without permission of the owner, pull down the fence of
another or any part thereof and leave the same down or, without permission,
open or leave open the gate of another.
(1996 Code, § 118-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.073 INJURY TO TREES.
   No person shall willfully injure any fruit, shade or ornamental tree or
shrub planted by the town authorities or others, or place any sign,
advertisement or handbill thereon, or willfully injure or deface any machinery,
building, wall, monument or base thereof, fence or enclosure or any sign,
awning or other fixture or any other property, real or personal, not his or her
own, or post up any show bill, notice or advertisement, or brand, write, mark
or paint any sign, letters or characters on the building, wall, fence or
property of another person, without first obtaining the consent of the owner of
such property.
(1996 Code, § 118-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
VICE
§ 130.085 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.086 RENTING OF PROPERTY FOR USE AS HOUSE OF ILL-FAME.
   No person shall rent or lease property within the town limits, either as
owner or as agent for the owner, knowing that the same is to be used as a house
of ill-fame or it is to be resorted to for the purpose of prostitution.
(1996 Code, § 118-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.087 OWNER OF PROPERTY USED AS HOUSE OF ILL-FAME.
   Any owner or agent of the owner, having control of property rented within
the town limits, knowing that the same is being used as a house of ill-fame, or
is being resorted to for the purpose of prostitution, or after being notified
by the Chief of Police of the town that such property is being used for such
purpose, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 for each day he or she shall permit said property to be so occupied after
such knowledge or notification, provided that said owner or agent shall not
have taken due process of law to vacate said property.
(1996 Code, § 118-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.088 PERSONS FREQUENTING HOUSES OF ILL-FAME.
   No person shall frequent a house of ill-fame or visit the same for the
purpose of lewdness, fornication or prostitution.
(1996 Code, § 118-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.089 KEEPING OF HOUSES OF ILL-FAME.
   No person shall keep a house of ill-fame, resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution or lewdness, and each inmate thereof shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99. In a prosecution of this offense, the general character of the house may
be proved.
(1996 Code, § 118-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.090 INDECENT BOOKS, PICTURES AND STATUARY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to print, engrave, exhibit, post or put
up, sell or offer for sale, have in possession or have in possession for sale
or for other purpose or dispose of any indecent, immodest or lascivious books,
pamphlets, papers, pictures or statuary.
(1996 Code, § 118-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.091 ADULTERY OR FORNICATION.
   No person shall commit adultery or fornication.
(1996 Code, § 118-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.092 GAMBLING HOUSES.
   No person shall keep or maintain a house or apartment or room in which games
of cards or games of chance shall be habitually played for money or anything to
be cashed as money.
(1996 Code, § 118-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.093 GAMING TABLES AND SLOT MACHINES.
   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called A.B.C. or
E.O. table, wheel of fortune, nickel-in-the-slot, faro bank, keno table,
racehorse table, racecourse table or any table of like kind, or any table,
apparatus or machine used in playing with cards, dice, money or otherwise, any
game of chance at which money, articles of value or capital prize may be won or
lost, whether the game be played with cards, dice, money or otherwise, or be a
partner concerned or interested in, as owner, operator or employee, the
keeping, exhibiting, using or operating such table, machine, apparatus or bank.
(1996 Code, § 118-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: NUCLEAR WASTE
Section
   
131.01   Waste generates outside of town prohibited
   
131.02   Definition
   
131.03   Transportation of waste through town
   
131.04   Legality and enforcement
   
131.05   Construal of provisions
Cross-reference:
Solid waste, see
Chapter 50
§ 131.01 WASTE GENERATES OUTSIDE OF TOWN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful within the town to store, process or
dispose of low-level or high-level nuclear waste not generated within the
boundaries of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful within the boundaries of the town to store,
process or dispose of hazardous toxic waste not generated within the boundaries
of the town.
(1996 Code, § 109-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this chapter, STORAGE shall expressly include but not be
limited to any placement within the town, which is of a duration longer than 12
hours.
(1996 Code, § 109-2)
§ 131.03 TRANSPORTATION OF WASTE THROUGH TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful to transport through the town limits any waste
materials mentioned in §
131.01, which is not generated within the boundaries of the town.
(1996 Code, § 109-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 LEGALITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It is expressly understood that, for purposes of their legality and
enforcement, §§
131.01 and
131.03 shall be construed separately and independently, the same as if they be
separate statutory mandates.
(1996 Code, § 109-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS.
   Nothing herein shall prevent redress for civil charges against any violator
by any member of the public nor shall anything herein be deemed to contravene
or limit existing or future legislation with regard to any such waste generated
within the town.
(1996 Code, § 109-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
Halloween
   
132.01   Curfew established
   
132.02   Trick or treating prohibited; exception
   
132.03   Graffiti
Unlawful Assembly
   
132.15   Curfew established
Cross-references:
   Peace and good order, see
Chapter 130
HALLOWEEN
§ 132.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 16 years of age and under to appear on
the streets, highways, alleys or public replaces of the town, after the hour of
10:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, on Halloween night.
(1996 Code, § 88-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 TRICK OR TREATING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on the streets,
highways, public places, private homes or public homes in the town, to make
trick or treat visitations, except that this section shall not apply to
children 12 years of age and younger.
   (B)   Children in this age bracket must, however, comply with the curfew.
(1996 Code, § 88-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 GRAFFITI.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on Halloween night to write, draw or
make marks on any public or private property not their own by any manner or
means whatever.
(1996 Code, § 88-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY
§ 132.15 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway, or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week.
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother, or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         (b)   A school recreational activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
   A citation for violation of division (A) of this section be issued by a
Police Officer only if he reasonably believes that a violation has occurred and
none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) of this section apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) of this section. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom such person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of division (A) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in division (B) of this section hereof apply.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75 for a
second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or subsequent
violation in any 12-month period.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION OF LAND
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
Building Construction
   
150.01   Adoption of standards by reference
   
150.02   Joint operation of Building Inspection Department
   
150.03   Fee schedules
   
150.04   Board of Appeals
   
150.05   Removal and repair of buildings and other structures
   
150.06   Violations
   
150.07   County Building Inspector; jurisdiction
Numbering of Buildings
   
150.20   Adoption of map
   
150.21   Identification of properties and buildings
   
150.22   Numbers according to frontage
   
150.23   Numbers assigned to front entrances
   
150.24   Posting and size numbers
   
150.25   Zoning Administrator to maintain system
   
150.26   Duty of owners
   
150.27   Compliance with system
   
150.28   Street names
   
150.29   Violations
   
Appendix A:   Procedures for Property Numbering System
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by reference in the town the Virginia Uniform
Statewide Building Code, being 13 VAC 5-63, which became effective September 1,
1973 and updated in 2015, the provisions of which are adopted and shall control
all matters concerning the construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal,
demolition, use, location, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and all
other functions which pertain to the installation of systems vital to all
buildings and structures and their service equipment as defined by the Virginia
Uniform Statewide Building Code, being 13 VAC 5-63, and shall apply to existing
and proposed buildings or structures in the town.
(1996 Code, § 79-1)
§ 150.02 JOINT OPERATION OF BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The establishment of a Building Inspection Department shall be a
project of the county and may be used by the Towns of Fries, Independence and
Troutdale.
   (B)   All required inspections within the county shall be responsibility of
the Building Inspection Department. The county shall be responsible for
maintaining the Department, and the Department will be directly responsible to
the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Fees will be collected and permits issued by the Inspection
Department. All record of permits and fees shall be duplicated and forwarded to
the locality in which the construction site is located, so each local
government can maintain such records. Such fees collected will be credited to
the account of the locality, and each locality shall be responsible for the
difference in annual cost (decided by formula) and the amount of fees
collected.
(1996 Code, § 79-2)
§ 150.03 FEE SCHEDULES.
   The cost of enforcement of the Uniform Statewide Building Code, being 13 VAC
5-63, within the town shall be defrayed through the levying of fees by the
County Board of Supervisors as provided in VA Code § 36-105, as amended, and
the ordinances duly adopted from time to time by the County Board of
Supervisors.
(1996 Code, § 79-3)
§ 150.04 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals as provided for in the ordinance duly appointed by the
County Board of Supervisors shall have full authority and responsibility to
function within the town limits of the town in conformance with the Uniform
Statewide Building Code, being 13 VAC 5-63.
(1996 Code, § 79-4)
§ 150.05 REMOVAL AND REPAIR OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The owners of property in the town shall at such time or times as the
Town Council may prescribe remove, repair or secure any building, wall or other
structure which might endanger the public health or safety of other residents
of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council through its own agents or employees may remove,
repair or secure any buildings, wall or any other structure, which might
endanger the public health or safety of other residents of the town, wherein
the owner of such property, after reasonable notice and reasonable time to do
so, has failed to remove, repair or secure said building, wall or other
structure.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, reasonable notice shall include a
written notice mailed by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, sent to the last known address of the property owner and published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the town in accordance with
applicable provisions of VA Code § 15.2-906.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the town to remove, repair or secure
any building, wall or other structure for at least 30 days following the later
of the return of the receipt or the newspaper publication.
   (C)   In the event the Town Council, through its own agents or employees,
removes, repairs or secures any building, wall or any other structure after
complying with the notice provisions of this section, the cost or expenses
thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the owners of such property and may
be collected by the town as taxes and levies are collected.
   (D)   Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of such
property shall have been assessed and which remains unpaid shall constitute a
hen against such property ranking on a parity with liens for unpaid local taxes
and enforceable in the same manner as provided in Article 3 (VA Code §§ 58.1-
3940 et seq.) and Article 4 (VA Code §§ 58.1-3965 et seq.) of Chapter 39 of
Title 58.1.
(1996 Code, § 79-5)
§ 150.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of the Uniform Statewide Building
Code, being 13 VAC 5-63, shall be punished as provided in VA Code § 36-106.
(1996 Code, § 79-6)
§ 150.07 COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to an agreement setting forth the specifications for the
County Building Inspector in the town, VA Code § 27-34.4 and the Uniform
Statewide Building Code, being 13 VAC 5-63, within the corporate limits of the
town, the county will set building permit fees and collect said fees for the
services of the Building Inspector within the town.
   (B)   Revenues collected are to be applied against the salary of the
Building Inspector.
(1996 Code, § 79-7)
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF MAP.
   The official numbers of properties and principal buildings within the town
are hereby declared to be as shown on a map entitled “Uniform Property
Numbering System, Town of Independence,” which is filed in the Town Hall. Such
map and all explanatory matters thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of
this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 83-1)
§ 150.21 IDENTIFICATION OF PROPERTIES AND BUILDINGS.
   All properties or principal buildings within the town shall, after April 24,
1980, be identified by reference to the uniform property numbering system
adopted in this subchapter and shown on the official property numbering system
map.
(1996 Code, § 83-2)
§ 150.22 NUMBERS ACCORDING TO FRONTAGE.
   A separate number shall be assigned for each 20 feet in the central business
district and each 50 feet in all other areas of the town.
(1996 Code, § 83-3)
§ 150.23 NUMBERS ASSIGNED TO FRONT ENTRANCES.
   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage on
which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is occupied
by more than one business or dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of
such building shall bear a separate number.
(1996 Code, § 83-4)
§ 150.24 POSTING AND SIZE NUMBERS.
   Numerals indicating the official numbers from each principal building or
each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be
visible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located.
Buildings not visible from the street shall have the numbers posted at the
street. These numbers shall be at least four inches high and one-half inch
wide.
(1996 Code, § 83-5) (Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 150.25 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR TO MAINTAIN SYSTEM.
   The Town Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for maintaining the
property numbering system. He or she shall establish all numbers and, in the
performance of this duty, shall follow the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 83-6)
§ 150.26 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of every principal building, as defined in
§
153.007, as amended, to learn the correct number assignment of the owner’s
property, as designated, from the town and to obtain and, within 60 days of the
date of the adoption of this section, to fasten such number upon the owner’s
building as provided in this chapter. In the case of newly constructed
buildings, it shall be the duty of the owner to obtain and, within 60 days of
the date of the completion of construction, to fasten such number upon the
owner’s building as provided in this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 83-7) (Ord. passed 5-13-2008)
§ 150.27 COMPLIANCE WITH SYSTEM.
   All numbers of property and buildings not in conformity with the provisions
of the uniform property numbering system of this subchapter shall be changed to
conform to the system herein adopted and the numbers established by the town
within 90 days after receipt of notice that such change is necessary.
(1996 Code, § 83-8)
§ 150.28 STREET NAMES.
   Names of streets within the town, as shown on the map identified by the
title “Town of Independence,” are hereby declared to be the official names of
such streets, unless officially changed by subsequent action of Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 83-9)
§ 150.29 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
subchapter or to fail to comply with any directive issued by town pursuant to
and in compliance with this chapter. If, after official notification from the
town to comply with the system, the owner does not comply within the 90 days
allowed, the owner shall be punished as provided in §
10.99, until compliance is achieved.
(1996 Code, § 83-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
APPENDIX A: PROCEDURES FOR PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
1.   Locate center point and establish an axis.
2.   Establish intervals for residential and business.
3.   Establish boundary of business section.
4.   Measure off intervals along axis.
5.   Even numbers on south and west, odd numbers on north and east.
6.   Change blocks (100’s) at each intersection or right-of-way. (Use
professional judgment).
7.   Each street off of axis begins with 100.
8.   Streets which begin one block from an axis starts with a 200 number, two
blocks a 300 number, three blocks a 400 number, etc.
9.   A looped street would receive numbers as if it were straight, i.e.,
numbers do not change with curves, even if odd numbers are no longer on the
north and east or even numbers on the south and west.
10.   A Y intersection does not constitute a block unless there is space for
homes inside the triangle. Example:
11.   House numbers are assigned as to where the primary entrance is located.
(1996 Code, § 83-Att-1)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION OF LAND
Section
   
151.01   Title; authority; jurisdiction
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions and word use
   
151.04   Preparation and recording of subdivision plats
   
151.05   Procedure for review and approval of subdivision
   
151.06   Submission of preliminary plat
   
151.07   Submission of final plat
   
151.08   General design requirements
   
151.09   Design standards for streets
   
151.10   Design standards for blocks
   
151.11   Design standards for lots; lot size
   
151.12   Easements
   
151.13   Monuments
   
151.14   Required improvements; bond
   
151.15   Variances and modifications
   
151.16   Fees
   
151.17   Violations
   
151.18   Amendments
   
151.19   Filing of copies
Cross-reference:
   Building construction, see §§
150.01 through
150.07
   Numbering of buildings, see §§
150.20 through
150.29
   Planning Commission, see §§
31.35 through
31.40
   Sewers, see
Chapter 53
   Streetlighting, see §§
93.01 through
93.03
   Zoning, see
Chapter 153
§ 151.01 TITLE; AUTHORITY; JURISDICTION.
   This chapter which shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision
Ordinance of the Town of Independence, Virginia,” is adopted pursuant to “Land
Subdivision and Development,” being VA Code §§ 15.2-2240 et seq., as amended.
(1996 Code, § 143-1)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The general purpose of this chapter is to establish certain
subdivision standards and procedures for the town. It is part of a long-range
plant to guide and facilitate the orderly beneficial growth of the community,
and to promote the public safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general
welfare. These standards and procedures can provide a guide for the change that
occurs when lands and acreage become urban in character as a result of
residential, commercial or industrial development, and can make possible the
provision of public services in a safe, adequate and efficient manner.
Subdivided land sooner or later becomes a public responsibility in that roads
and streets must be maintained and numerous public services customary to
urbanized areas must be provided. This chapter assists the community in meeting
these responsibilities.
   (B)   More specifically, the regulations included herein are designed to
bring about the coordination of streets within subdivisions with other existing
and planned streets; to provide for the safe and efficient circulation of
traffic; to avoid hazardous intersections and other dangerous conditions; to
provide adequate drainage, and water and sewer systems; to establish
construction standards for streets and other improvements; to lessen flood
damage and to control erosion and sedimentation; to ensure that land is platted
and developed in a way that is consonant with the efficient and economic use of
public funds; to require the proper legal description and monumenting of
subdivided land; and to assure that the purchasers of lots are offered a
commodity that is suitable for development and use.
(1996 Code, § 143-2)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS AND WORD USE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms shall be
interpreted as follows.
      (1)   The word “town” shall mean the Town of Independence, Virginia.
      (2)   The words “Town Council” shall mean the Town Council of the Town of
Independence, Virginia.
      (3)   The words “Planning Commission” shall mean the Planning Commission
of the Town of Independence.
      (4)   The words “Highway Department” shall mean the Virginia Department
of Highways and Transportation.
      (5)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and “parcel.”
      (6)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (7)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (8)   The word “approve” shall be considered to be followed by the words
“or disapproved.”
      (9)   All distances and areas refer to measurement in a horizontal plane.
      (10)   Any reference to the chapter includes all ordinances amending or
supplementing the same.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official designated by the Town Council to administer
and enforce this chapter.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, or shore lines of
waterways.
      BUILDING.  Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
person, animal, chattel or moveable property of any kind, and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line or lines within a lot or other parcel of
land so designated on a recorded plat or otherwise established by law in front
of which no building or structure shall be erected.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local public street having only one end open to traffic and
the other end being permanently terminated by an appropriate turnaround for the
safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose or purposes.
      FINAL PLAT. The map or plan of a subdivision of land which meets all the
requirements of this chapter, including any accompanying material, as described
in §
151.07.
      FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any lot, lots or tract of
land measured along a public street, road or highway against which land abuts.
      HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The Resident Engineer employed by the Virginia
Department of Highways and Transportation serving the county.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Public utilities, circulation and drainage facilities,
including but not limited to: streets, storm and sanitary sewer systems; curbs
an gutters; culverts, catch basins and other drainage structures; water lines
and fire hydrants; sidewalks; street signs.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership, or for budding development, or both.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this chapter.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A parcel of land under single ownership or
control, having a minimum area of ten acres, for which a detailed site plan is
submitted to the Planning Commission for review under the provisions of this
chapter. Types of development which may be reviewed and approved as “planned
units” include: residential communities; mobile home parks; industrial parks;
commercial centers and; resort and recreation complexes containing campgrounds,
motels and vacation homes for sale or rent.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or plan of a subdivision of land which meets
all the requirements of this chapter, including any accompanying material, as
described in §
151.06.
      RESUBDIVISION. An authorized change in property lines of a recorded
subdivision.
      STREET. A way for vehicle traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, road or however otherwise designated. For the purposes of this
chapter, the street system is classified as follows.
         (a)   ALLEYS. Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicle service
access to the back of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
         (b)   ARTERIAL STREETS. Those used primarily for heavy or fast traffic
and from which direct access to abutting property may be restricted or
prohibited.
         (c)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from local streets
to the major system of arterial streets, including the principal entrance
streets of a residential development and certain streets for circulation within
such development.
         (d)   LOCAL STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
         (e)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and which provide access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who creates a subdivision as
defined in this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, any of which contains less than five acres, for the purpose of
transfer of ownership or of building development, including all changes in
street or lot lines and the creation of any new street or easement; except,
however, as follows:
         (a)   The sale or exchange of adjacent property between adjoining lot
owners, where such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels of five acres or more not
involving any new street or easement;
         (c)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes or for the building site for members of the family owning
any such agricultural lands;
         (d)   A bona fide division or partition of land by a property owner to
his or her children and their spouses for a building site; and
         (e)   Land being sold by any unit of local, state or federal
governments.
(1996 Code, § 143-3)
§ 151.04 PREPARATION AND RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Any owner, proprietor or developer of any tract of land situated
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, who subdivides such tract, or who
causes any public streets, alleys or public areas to be created, shall cause a
plat to be made of such subdivision and shall cause said plat to be recorded in
the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county. The plat shall be
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No plat of a subdivision shall be recorded until each plat shall have
been approved, and such approval evidenced thereon, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for the erection or occupancy of any
structure or building to be located in any subdivision, a plat whereof is
required to be recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, until such
plat shall have been recorded as herein provided.
   (D)   No lot shall be sold in any subdivision before the plat has been
recorded.
   (E)   Every subdivision plat submitted for recordation shall be prepared by
a certified professional engineer or land surveyor licensed by the state, who
shall endorse upon each such plat a certificate signed by him or her setting
forth the source of the title of the owner of the land subdivided and the place
of record of the last instrument in the chain of title. When the plat is of
land acquired from more than one source of title, the outlines of the several
tracts shall be indicated upon such plat. No provision of this chapter shall
preclude the preparation of a preliminary plat by an architect, landscape
architect or land planner.
   (F)   Every such plat shall contain a statement as follows: “The platting or
dedication of the following described land (here insert a correct description
of the land subdivided) is with the free consent and in accordance with the
desire of the undersigned owners, proprietors and trustees, if any.” The
statement shall be signed by such persons and duly acknowledged before some
officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds.
   (G)   The recordation of the final plat shall operate to transfer to the
town or county, in fee simple, such portion of the premises platted as is on
such plat set apart for streets, alleys or other public use and to transfer to
said town or county, any easement indicated on such plat to create a public
right of passage over same.
   (H)   The preparation and recording of subdivision plats shall be done in
accordance with the provisions of §§
151.04 and
151.07.
(1996 Code, § 143-4)
§ 151.05 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Application. Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, the
subdivider or his or her agent shall apply in writing to the Planning
Commission for approval of a preliminary plat, and submit five copies thereof
prepared in accordance with §
151.06. He or she shall submit a fee with this application in accordance with §
151.16. This application shall be submitted at least seven days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   Preliminary plat approval. Following review of the preliminary plat
the Planning Commission shall communicate within 45 days in writing with the
subdivider, informing him or her of action taken, and stating specific changes,
if any, that are required in the preliminary layout. If for any reason the
subdivision is disapproved, the reasons for such disapproval shall be given. In
cases where approval of the plat is conditional upon changes being made in the
subdivision layout, one copy of the plat shall be returned to the subdivider
with the desired changes marked thereon.
   (C)   Engineering drawings and specifications. After receiving notice of
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the
Administrator four copies of plans and specifications for all improvements to
be installed. The Administrator shall advise the subdivider concerning the
character and extent of improvements and the estimated amount of the
performance bond or other surety that will be required before final approval of
the subdivision plat. The Administrator, after consultation with the Resident
Engineer of the Commonwealth Department of Highways and Transportation, shall
advise the subdivider of approval or disapproval in writing within 60 days.
   (D)   Installation of improvements. The subdivider shall, prior to filing
with the Planning Commission a final plat for approval, complete all
improvements and installation of utilities required under these regulations; or
in lieu of completing said improvements, the subdivider shall furnish the town
with a performance bond as required by §
151.14.
   (E)   Submittal of final plat. The subdivider shall, within 12 months after
official notification of approval by the Planning Commission in respect to the
preliminary plat, apply in writing to the Planning Commission for approval of
the final subdivision plat, and submit the original and three copies thereof
prepared in accordance with §
151.07. This application shall be submitted at least seven days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission at which it is to be considered. The
subdivider may file for approval only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which he or she proposes to record and develop at that time.
   (F)   Final plat approval.
      (1)   Unless an application for final approval is made within 12 months
after approval of the preliminary plat, said approval of the preliminary plat
shall become null and void.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days from the date of
submittal of the final plat, approve or disapprove such plat; and failure to
act within 45 days shall be deemed approval.
      (3)   Approval of the final subdivision plat by the Planning Commission
shall be shown on the face of the plat by the signature of the Chairperson. The
approval of the plat shall not be finally effective until the subdivider has
made or provided for the improvements required pursuant to §
151.14 to the satisfaction of the Town Council and this approval has been
attested by the signature of the Mayor on said plat.
   (G)   Recordation. Unless the subdivider shall have said plat recorded in
the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county within six months
after final approval by the Planning Commission, and before any lots are sold
in said subdivision, approval of the final plat shall become null and void.
(1996 Code, § 143-5)
§ 151.06 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit to the Planning Commission five copies of
the preliminary plat, at a scale of 100 feet to the inch, which shall show
thereon:
      (1)   Proposed subdivision name and location;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the owner of record, subdivider, the person
who prepared the plat and holders of any easements affecting the property;
      (3)   The names of all subdivisions immediately adjacent, and the names
of the owners of record of adjacent unsubdivided property;
      (4)   Date of drawing, true North point and scale;
      (5)   Survey of the tract boundary;
      (6)   Significant natural landscape features, including rock outcrops and
large trees;
      (7)   Location, width and names of all existing or platted streets within
or adjacent to the subdivision. The location of existing buildings, easements,
railroad rights-of-way, utility lines and drainageways;
      (8)   Preliminary plans for all utilities, including but not limited to:
the proposed method of accomplishing surface drainage, water supply and sewage
disposal. Preliminary designs for any bridges and culverts that may be
required;
      (9)   Location and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, lots, building
lines and easements. Identify lots by number and streets by name;
      (10)   If the subdivision includes or abuts a water area, the plat shall
show any proposed pierhead line beyond which no pier or dock may be
constructed;
      (11)   Proposed use of all lots after being subdivided; and
      (12)   Designation of all parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public use and the conditions, if any, of such dedication.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall include a vicinity sketch map, at a scale
of 2,000 feet to the inch, showing the relationship of the subdivision to its
environs. This map shall encompass an area extending at least one mile on each
side of the subdivision and shall identify roads, political boundaries, other
subdivisions and important landmarks and natural features.
   (C)   The following information shall be furnished, either set forth on the
face of the plat or submitted as separate documents:
      (1)   Sedimentation and erosion control measures proposed for the
subdivision, on advice of the New River Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (2)   Signed statements of the appropriate officials concerning the
availability of water, sewer, gas and electricity to the proposed subdivision;
and
      (3)   Private restrictions, if any, proposed to be included in the deeds.
(1996 Code, § 143-6)
§ 151.07 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Format and scale. The final subdivision plat shall be drawn on linen
or other durable transparency of scale-true material with permanent drafting
ink, at a scale of 100 feet to the inch. The plat shall be drawn on one or more
sheets, the dimensions of which shall not exceed 22 inches by 17 inches. Where
more than one sheet is necessary to show the entire plat, match lines shall be
clearly indicated The subdivider shall submit to the Planning Commission the
original and three prints of the final plat.
   (B)   Preparation and certificates. The final plat shall be prepared by a
certified professional engineer or land surveyor licensed by the state. It
shall contain the certificates and statements required by §
151.04. A place shall be provided on the plat to receive the signature of the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission and the Mayor of the town.
   (C)   Content. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as
approved and shall show the following:
      (1)   Name and location of subdivision;
      (2)   Name and address of record of owner and subdivider;
      (3)   Date of drawing, true North point and scale;
      (4)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way, and property lines of lots. Bearing shall be shown to the
nearest ten seconds and dimensions to the nearest hundredth of a foot. Data for
all curves shall be shown in detail at the curve or in a curve data table
containing the following: delta, radius, arc, tangent, chord, chord bearing and
degree of curve;
      (5)   Location of monuments and property markers;
      (6)   Record name of adjoining subdivisions, and names of record of
owners of adjoining unsubdivided land;
      (7)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way;
      (8)   Location, dimensions and purpose of all easements;
      (9)   Abutting streets and roads, with names and right-of-way widths;
      (10)   Designating numbers of symbols for all lots and blocks;
      (11)   In the case of the resubdivision of existing recorded lots,
existing lot lines shall be shown by dotted lines and the resubdivision by full
lines;
      (12)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved;
      (13)   Minimum building setback lines on all lots;
      (14)   Private restrictions, if any, proposed to be included in the
deeds; and
      (15)   Where temporary turnarounds are required by this chapter, they
shall be shown on the plat and the following notation shall be made on the
plat: “Any area on this plat designated as a temporary turnaround shall be
constructed and used as other streets in the subdivision until such time as
(insert here the name of the street) is extended to join another street and the
cul-de-sac ceases to exist. Thereupon the land in the temporary turnaround area
which extends beyond the normal right-of-way line of the street will be vacated
for street purposes and will revert to adjoining lot owners.”
   (D)   Requirements for survey. All dimensions, both linear and angular,
shall be determined by an accurate control survey which must close and balance
within a limit of one foot in 5,000. A bearing and distance tie between at
least two permanent monuments on the interior boundary of the subdivision and a
bearing and distance tie to a corner of the subdivision from an outside
reference marker, in accordance with §
151.13, shall be made and shown on the plat.
   (E)   Approval. Approval by the Administrator of the preliminary plat does
not constitute a guarantee of approval of the final plat.
(1996 Code, § 143-7)
§ 151.08 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall observe the following general requirements and
principles of land subdivision.
   (A)   Suitability of land. Land which the Planning Commission determines to
be unsuitable for development because of vulnerability to flooding, poor
drainage or other characteristics likely to be harmful to the safety, welfare
or health of the future residents or to the public, shall not be submitted
unless adequate methods to correct all such hazards are devised, and approved
by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Conformity with official plans. All proposed subdivisions shall
conform to any adopted plans for the town, and shall be in accord with planning
policies of the town and the county. The subdivider shall make available for
public acquisition such lands in the area to be subdivided as are designated by
official plans for parks, playgrounds and schools or other public buildings.
Whenever said area includes any part of a major arterial or collector street as
designated on an official plan, appropriate provision for the right-of-way
thereof shall be incorporated in the subdivision plat.
   (C)   Preservation of natural features. In the design of any subdivision,
careful consideration will be given to preserving natural features and
amenities and to the preservation of sites and buildings having historic value.
   (D)   Private streets prohibited. There shall be no private streets platted
in any subdivision. Each lot shall have direct frontage on, and access to, a
dedicated public street.
   (E)   Large tracts. Where land is subdivided into larger parcels than normal
building lots, such parcels shall be arranged in such a way that future
resubdivision is feasible.
   (F)   Neighborhood consideration. Street and block layout shall be made with
consideration of the most advantageous development of adjoining tracts and the
entire neighborhood.
   (G)   Advertising standards. A subdivider when advertising a subdivided
tract of land for sale shall be specific as to the following items: whether
officially approved water and sewage facilities are available or not.
(1996 Code, § 143-8)
§ 151.09 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
   In the layout of streets, the subdivider shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Streets shall be coordinated with the existing street system and
provision shall be made for continuity of principal streets as appropriate.
   (B)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, it is desirable to
provide for future street access to adjoining unsubdivided property, proposed
streets shall be extended to the boundary of such property. Where one or more
lots front on any such street extension, a temporary turnaround shall be
provided.
   (C)   Local streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (D)   All dead-end streets, or cul-de-sac, shall terminate in a turnaround
having a minimum right-of-way diameter of 100 feet.
   (E)   Less than full-width streets shall not be permitted, and boundary
streets along the edge of the tract shall not be permitted unless required to
provide right-of-way for streets and arterials designated by an official major
street plan.
   (F)   Where land in a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a major arterial
highway, the Planning Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse
frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the
rear property line, or such other treatment as may be necessary for protection
of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local
traffic.
   (G)   Alleys may be required at the rear of lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes. In general, alleys shall not be platted in residential
blocks unless the need for them can be demonstrated to the Planning Commission.
   (H)   In general, streets shall be planned in harmony with existing
topography. Street grades shall be kept below 10% where practicable, and in no
case shall exceed 12%. Minimum grade for all streets shall be 0.5% for
drainage.
   (I)   The horizontal and vertical alignment of all streets shall conform to
standards approved by the Commonwealth Department of Highways and
Transportation. In no case shall a street have a curve radius of less than 100
feet, measured to the centerline.
   (J)   A tangent of at least 200 feet shall be provided between reverse
curves on arterial streets, and 100 feet on collector streets.
   (K)   Streets shall intersect at right angles or as nearly as practicable.
In no case shall the angle of intersection be less than 75 degrees, unless
approved by the Planning Commission upon recommendation of the resident
engineer for an unusual condition of terrain.
   (L)   Street jogs or offsets at intersections shall be avoided.
   (M)   Intersections with an arterial street shall be at least 1,000 feet
apart, measured from centerline to centerline.
   (N)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
where the Planning Commission determines such to be desirable for reasons of
safety.
   (O)   In cases where State Department of Highways and Transportation
specifications are lacking or are less restrictive than the requirements of
this chapter, this chapter shall prevail; otherwise, the Highway Departments’
specifications will prevail.
   (P)   The roadway shall be graded to 30 feet exclusive of side ditches. Base
for the roadway shall be at least (dependent upon existing and projected
traffic volumes) 30 feet in width and six inches in depth and be of stone,
gravel or other satisfactory material approved by the State Department of
Highways and Transportation. The pavement width will be a minimum of 24 feet.
The surface shall be prime and double seal or equivalent thickness of plant-
mixed bituminous concrete.
   (Q)   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with other already
existing and named streets, shall bear the names of the existing streets. In no
case shall the names of proposed streets duplicate existing street names
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, way,
place, land or court. Street names shall be indicated on the prehminary and
final plats, and shall be approved by the Administrator. Names of existing
streets shall not be changed except by approval of the governing body.
   (R)   A cross-section showing the proposed street construction, depth and
type of base, type of surface and the like.
   (S)   A profile or contour map showing the proposed grades for the streets
and drainage facilities including elevations of existing and proposed ground
surface at all street intersections and at points of major grade change along
the centerline of streets together with proposed grade lines connecting
therewith.
   (T)   A profile on contour map showing the proposed grades for the streets
and drainage facilities including elevations of existing and proposed ground
surface at all street intersections and at points of major grade change along
the centerline of streets together with proposed grade lines connecting
therewith.
(1996 Code, § 143-9)
§ 151.10 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS.
   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due regard
to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the
type of use contemplated; requirements of Chapter 153, Zoning, convenience and
safety of vehicular and pedestrian circulation; and convenient access to water
areas.
   (A)   The length of residential blocks shall generally not exceed 1,600 feet
nor be less than 300 feet.
   (B)   Provision for pedestrian walks across blocks may be required by
easement or dedication when determined to be essential by the Planning
Commission to provide circulation or convenient public access to facilities
such as schools, parks and water areas.
   (C)   Blocks shall have a minimum width of 200 feet and shall accommodate
two rows of lots, except that a single row of lots will be permitted adjacent
to a water area or abutting an arterial highway which is not used for access to
the lots.
(1996 Code, § 143-10)
§ 151.11 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOTS; LOT SIZE.
   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and the type of development and use contemplated.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, residential lots for single-family
detached dwellings shall have a minimum width at the building line of 80 feet.
All lots shall have an average depth of at least 100 feet, and single-tier lots
shall have an average depth of at least 125 feet. Smaller lots may be permitted
in the case of cluster development design, the development plan for which is
submitted for consideration as part of a planned unit development.
      (2)   Lots for townhouses shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
      (3)   Depth and width of parcels reserved or laid out for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and
parking facilities (five spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor space) required.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
the street.
      (5)   Corner lots shall have extra width as necessary to meet building
line requirements on both streets.
      (6)   The subdividing of land shall be such as to provide, by means of a
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing street.
      (7)   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after subdividing
of a tract must be added to adjacent lots, or otherwise disposed of rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
      (8)   Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two or more
parcels in separate ownership, and lot arrangement is such that a property
ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall
be transferred by deed to single ownership, simultaneously with the recording
of the final plat. Said deed is to be deposited with the Clerk of the court and
held with the final plat until the subdivider is ready to record same, and they
both shall then be recorded together.
      (9)   Lots intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street
parking and delivery facilities.
   (B)   Lot size. 
      (1)   The minimum lot size in any area shall be in accordance with
recommendations of the Planning Commission until such time as a zoning
ordinance shall have been passed, except that where public water and/or public
sewer systems are not available, the Administrator may, in accordance with
recommendations of the Health Officer, require such minimum lot sizes to be
increased.
      (2)   These recommendations shall be submitted to the Administrator in
writing either by notations on the plat or by letter.
      (3)   The Health Officer shall be guided by appropriate tests in
determining the area required for the sanitary and safe disposal of septic tank
effluent.
         (a)   Lot size (public water and public sewer): residential lots
served by both public water and public sewer systems shall be 80 feet or more
in width and 10,000 square feet or more in area.
         (b)   Lot size (public water or public sewer): residential lots served
by only one of public water or public sewer systems shall be 100 feet or more
in width and 15,000 square feet or more in area.
         (c)   Lot size (neither public water nor public sewer): residential
lots served by neither public water nor public sewer systems shall be 150 feet
or more in width and 30,000 square feet or more in area.
         (d)   Greater lot sizes may be required where individual septic tanks
and/or individual wells are used if the Health Officer determines that there
are factors of drainage, soil condition or other conditions to cause potential
health problems. The Administrator shall require that data requested by the
Health Officer be submitted as a basis for passing upon a subdivision dependent
upon septic tanks as a means of sewage disposal.
         (e)   Satisfaction of lot dimensions or area shall not be achieved by
including land covered by water or flowage easements.
(1996 Code, § 143-11)
§ 151.12 EASEMENTS.
   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities and surface drainage where necessary and shall be at
least 12 feet wide. The plat shall clearly state that it is the obligation of
abutting property owners to keep all drainage ditches open along said easements
and this provision shall be included in the deed of each lot affected.
(1996 Code, § 143-12)
§ 151.13 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments, to serve as permanent reference points, shall be placed in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   At least one corner of the subdivision shall be designated by bearing
and distance tie from a readily discernible reference marker. If a corner is
within 2,000 feet of a United States Coast and Geodetic Survey station or a
station of the state coordinated grid system, then this corner shall be marked
with a monument designated by computed coordinates to an accuracy of 1:10,000,
and such monument shall be identified on the final subdivision plat. Where such
reference station is not available, the tie shall be made to some permanent and
readily identifiable landmark.
   (B)   Monuments shall be placed in the ground at all corners and at angle
points in the boundary lines of the subdivision, at all points of angles and
curvature in the right-of-way lines of all streets, and at all lot corners
within the subdivision.
   (C)   At designated points in the outer boundary and at a minimum of at
least two points in each block of the subdivision, such monuments shall be
designated as control points and shall be of stone or precast concrete not less
than four inches square or four inches in diameter and at least 30 inches long.
In all other locations the monuments, or markers shall be steel or wrought iron
pipe not less than one-half inch or more than one inch in diameter and at least
24 inches long. The monument shall not extend more than four above ground
level.
(1996 Code, § 143-13)
§ 151.14 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; BOND.
   (A)   Generally. Improvements shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Streets. Streets shall be graded to the full width and in
conformance with the approved cross-sections and profiles. The pavement base
and surface shall be appropriate to the type of development and use
contemplated. All streets shall be constructed in accordance with
specifications and standards of the Highway Department.
      (2)   Drainage. A drainage system shall be provided to ensure adequate
drainage of surface and stormwater. The system shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Town
Council.
      (3)   Water supply. Where a public water supply is reasonably accessible,
the subdivider shall connect with the public supply and shall provide water
mains and a suitable water connection at each lot.
      (4)   Sanitary sewers. Where a public sanitary sewerage system is
reasonably accessible the subdivider shall connect therewith and shall provide
a connection for each lot.
      (5)   Other improvements. Curbs and gutters and sidewalks shall be
installed in subdivisions where warranted by the type and density of
development. Fire hydrants shall be installed where a central water system is
provided. In subdivisions where new streets are created, street name signs
shall be installed. Said improvements, when required, shall conform to
specifications of the Highway Department and Town Council.
   (B)   Performance bond. The cost of all improvements required by the
provisions of this section shall be paid by the subdivider, or as much thereof
as the Council shall direct. If the actual installation of improvements is not
completed prior to the filing of an application for final plat approval, the
subdivider shall executive an agreement and post a bond with surety or other
guarantee satisfaction to the Council and in an amount equal to or greater than
the estimated cost of the uncompleted improvements. The Council may require
that the bond or other guarantee be greater than the estimated cost of
improvements to allow for inflationary cost increases.
(1996 Code, § 143-14)
§ 151.15 VARIANCES AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Planned unit development. The design requirements of this chapter may
be modified in the case of planned unit development, upon determination by the
Planning Commission that the proposed development will provide adequate public
spaces and fully meet needs for light, air, service, circulation, recreation
and livability. Before approval of any such planned unit development, a
detailed site plan shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and provisions shall be made for such covenants and other legal
provisions as will ensure that the plan will be carried out.
   (B)   Variances. Where, because of unusual topographical conditions peculiar
to the site or because of unusual shape of the property, the Planning
Commission finds that strict adherence to the requirements of this chapter
would result in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider, or builder including
but not limited to summer homes or vacation cottages built on mountainous or
rough terrain, it may permit a variance in the regulations so that substantial
justice is done and the public interest secured; provided that the granting of
such variance will alleviate a clearly demonstrable hardship as distinguished
from a special privilege or convenience sough by the subdivider; and, provided
further that such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the intent of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Conditions. In granting variance and modifications, the Planning
Commission may impose such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified.
(1996 Code, § 143-15)
§ 151.16 FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a charge for the examination and review of every
subdivision plat submitted to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   This fee shall be set by Council from time to time for each lot
contained in the subdivision.
   (C)   This fee shall be paid to the town at the time an application is made
for approval of the preliminary subdivision plat.
(1996 Code, § 143-16)
§ 151.17 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any owner, or any proprietor of any tract of land who subdivides that
tract of land and violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to fines as provided by, “Land Subdivision and Development,” of VA Code
§ 15.2-2209, as amended. With each day the violation continues constituting a
separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to other remedies, the Council may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent violation or attempted violation,
or to prevent any act which would constitute such a violation.
(1996 Code, § 143-17)
§ 151.18 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Council in accordance
with VA Code § 15.2- 2204, as now or hereafter in effect.
(1996 Code, § 143-18)
§ 151.19 FILING OF COPIES.
   Certified copies of this chapter and all amendments thereof shall be filed
in the Town Hall, and in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the
county.
(1996 Code, § 143-19)
Editor’s Note:
   The surveyor’s certificate, originally included at the end of this chapter,
is available at the Town Clerk’s Office
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statement of intent
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Compliance required; liability
   
152.04   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Description of districts
   
152.07   Official maps
   
152.08   District boundary changes
   
152.09   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.10   Variances; factors to be considered
   
152.11   Existing structures in floodplain areas; nonconforming structures
District Provisions
   
152.25   Permit and application requirements
   
152.26   General standards
   
152.27   Specific standards
   
152.28   Standards for approximated floodplain
   
152.29   Standards for floodway
   
152.30   Standards for Shallow Flooding District
   
152.31   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The purpose of these provisions is to prevent the loss of life and property,
the creation of health and safety hazards, the disruption of commerce and
governmental services, the extraordinary and unnecessary expenditure of public
funds for flood protection and relief, and the impairment of the tax base by:
   (A)   Regulating uses, activities and development which, alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, activities and development,
will cause unacceptable increases in flood heights, velocities and frequencies;
   (B)   Restricting or prohibiting certain uses, activities and development
from locating within districts subject to flooding;
   (C)   Requiring all those uses, activities and developments that do occur in
flood-prone districts to be protected and/or flood-proofed against flooding and
flood damage; and
   (D)   Protecting individuals from buying land and structures which are
unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards.
(1996 Code, § 176-110) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   These provisions shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
town, and identified as being in the 100-year floodplain by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
(1996 Code, § 176-111) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; LIABILITY.
   (A)   No land shall hereafter be developed and no structure shall be
located, relocated, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged or structurally
altered except in full compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter
and any other applicable ordinances and regulations which apply to uses within
the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such
as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not
imply that districts outside the Floodplain District, or that land uses
permitted within such district will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   Records of actions associated with administering this chapter shall be
kept on file and maintained by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(1996 Code, § 176-112) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.04 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
districts. However, any underlying ordinance shall remain in full force and
effect to the extent that its provisions are more restrictive than this
chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-113) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The Federal Emergency Management Agency designated
100-year water surface elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The board appointed to review appeals made by
individuals with regard to decisions of the Zoning Administrator in the
interpretation of this chapter.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings or columns (posts and piers).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   The collapse or subsistence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in division (1)(a) above.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization in the
watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial flood insurance rate map or on or after December
31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which start of construction commenced on or after the effective
date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SHALLOW FLOODING AREA. A special flood hazard area with base flood depths
from one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
152.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  The date the building permit was issued, provided
that the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, substantial improvement or other improvement was within
180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF THE CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(1996 Code, § 176-115) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.06 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Basis of districts. The various floodplain districts shall include
special flood hazard areas. The basis for the delineation of these districts
shall be the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration, dated
August 28, 2008, as amended.
      (1)   The Approximated Floodplain District shall be those areas
identified as an A or A99 Zone on the maps accompanying the flood insurance
study. In these zones, no detailed flood profiles or elevations are provided,
but the100-year floodplain boundary has been approximated.
      (2)   The Shallow Flooding District shall be those areas identified as
Zone AO or AH on the maps accompanying the flood insurance study.
   (B)   Overlay concept.
      (1)   The Floodplain Districts described above shall be overlays to the
existing underlying districts as shown on the official zoning ordinance map,
and as such, the provisions for the floodplain districts shall serve as a
supplement to the underlying district provisions.
      (2)   If there is any conflict between the provisions or requirements of
the Floodplain Districts and those of any underlying district, the more
restrictive provisions and/or those pertaining to the floodplain districts
shall apply.
      (3)   In the event any provision concerning a Floodplain District is
declared inapplicable as a result of any legislative or administrative actions
or judicial decision, the basic underlying provisions shall remain applicable.
(1996 Code, § 176-116) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.07 OFFICIAL MAPS.
   The boundaries of the special flood hazard area and Floodplain Districts are
established as shown on the flood boundary and floodway map and/or flood
insurance rate map which are declared to be a part of this chapter and which
shall be kept on file at the town offices.
(1996 Code, § 176-117) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.08 DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   The delineation of any of the Floodplain Districts may be revised by the
town where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or where more
detailed studies have been conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers or other qualified agency, or an individual documents the need for
such change. However, prior to any such change, approval must be obtained from
the Federal Insurance Administration.
(1996 Code, § 176-118) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.09 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Initial interpretations of the boundaries of the Floodplain Districts shall
be made by the Zoning Officer. Should a dispute arise concerning the boundaries
of any of the districts, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary
determination. The person questioning or contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her
case to the Board and to submit his or her own technical evidence if he or she
so desires.
(1996 Code, § 176-119) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.10 VARIANCES; FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   (A)   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall satisfy all relevant factors and procedures specified in other
sections of this chapter and consider the following additional factors:
      (1)   The showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments. No variance shall be granted for any
proposed use, development or activity within any Floodway District that will
cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (4)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (5)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners;
      (6)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (7)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (8)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (9)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (11)   The safety of access by ordinary and emergency vehicles to the
property in time of flood;
      (12)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
      (13)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure; and
      (14)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may refer any application and accompanying
documentation pertaining to any request for a variance to any engineer or other
qualified person or agency for technical assistance in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, and the adequacy of the
plans for flood protection and other related matters.
   (C)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the granting of such will not result in unacceptable or
prohibited increases in flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense; and will not create nuisances, cause fraud or
victimization of the public, or conflict with local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the variance will be the minimum required to provide relief
from exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify the applicant for a variance,
in writing, that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
100-year flood elevation increases the risks to life and property and will
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance.
   (F)   A record shall be maintained of the above notification as well as all
variance actions, including justification for the issuance of the variances.
Any variances that are issued shall be noted in the annual or biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-121)
§ 152.11 EXISTING STRUCTURES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS; NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   A structure or use of a structure or premises which lawfully existed before
the enactment of these provisions, but which is not in conformity with these
provisions, may be continued subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Existing structures in the floodway area shall not be expanded or
enlarged unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the
proposed expansion would not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
   (B)   Any modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement of
any kind to a structure and/or use located in any floodplain areas to an extent
or amount of less than 50% of its market value shall conform to the VA USBC.
   (C)   The modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement of
any kind to a structure and/or use, regardless of its location in a floodplain
area to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with this chapter and shall require the
entire structure to conform to the VA USBC.
(1996 Code, § 176-122)
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 152.25 PERMIT AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. 
      (1)   All uses, activities and development occurring within any
floodplain district shall be undertaken only upon the issuance of a zoning
permit.
      (2)   Such development shall be undertaken only in strict compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and with all other applicable codes and
ordinances, as amended, and the town subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of any such permit, the Zoning Officer shall
require all applications to include compliance with all applicable state and
federal laws.
   (B)   Site plans and permit applications. All applications for development
within any floodplain district and all building permits issued for the
floodplain shall incorporate the following information:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement); and
      (2)   For structures to be floodproofed (nonresidential only), the
elevation to which the structure will be floodproofed.
(1996 Code, § 176-120) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.26 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning equipment
and other service facilities, including duct work, shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
   (K)   In riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Department of
Conservation and Recreation (Department of Floodplain Management) shall be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and copies of
such notifications shall be submitted to FEMA.
   (L)   The flood-carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion of
any watercourse shall be maintained.
(1996 Code, § 176-120.1) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.27 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations have been
provided in the flood insurance study or generated according §
152.28(A), the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential building (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all
A1-30, AE and AH Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated, provided
that all areas of the building components below the elevation corresponding to
the BFE plus one foot are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water, and use structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B) are satisfied.
   (C)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas of new construction or
substantially improved structures which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall:
      (1)   Not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be
used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the enclosed area
shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles (garage door)
or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior door), or entry
to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion of such
enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms, except
to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials below the
regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, measures to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum design
criteria.
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit.
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade.
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on
individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision or in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has
incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, must meet all the
requirements for new construction, including the elevation and anchoring
requirements in §
152.26(A) and (B) and division (A) above.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the grade; and
         (c)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for manufactured homes in this
division (D).
(1996 Code, § 176-120.2) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.28 STANDARDS FOR APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Approximate Floodplain
District.
   (A)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided, the Zoning Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
any other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
152.10. When such base flood elevation data is utilized, the Zoning
Administrator shall obtain:
      (1)   The elevation (in relation to the mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including the basement) of all new and substantially improved
structures; and
      (2)   If the structure has been floodproofed in accordance with the
requirements of §
152.27(B), the elevation in relation to the mean sea level to which the
structure has been floodproofed.
   (B)   When the data is not available from any source as in division (A)
above, the lowest floor of the structure shall be elevated to no lower than one
foot above the highest adjacent grade.
(1996 Code, § 176-120.3) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.29 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAY.
   The following provisions shall apply within the floodway when it has been
identified as in §
152.28(A).
   (A)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments are prohibited unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
152.10.
   (C)   The placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes) is prohibited,
except in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, provided that the anchoring, elevation
and encroachment standards are met.
(1996 Code, § 176-120.4) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.30 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Shallow Flooding District.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the flood depth specified on the flood insurance rate map, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet freeboard
above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
flood depth specified on the flood insurance rate map, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet freeboard above the
highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to the specified flood level so that any space below
that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be provided
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(1996 Code, § 176-120.5) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 152.31 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development proposals (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) that exceed 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser.
(1996 Code, § 176-120.6)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this chapter or of
any regulation issued under the authority of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined an amount not to exceed that set by Council from time to
time or be imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both. All prosecutions for
violations of this chapter or of any regulations issued under the authority of
this chapter shall be brought in the name of the town in the court of the
county by the Corporation Counsel of the town or any of his or her assistants.
   (B)   Any person who demolishes, alters or constructs a building or
structure in violation of this chapter shall be required to restore the
building or structure and its site to the appearance prior to the violation.
Any action to enforce this division (B) shall be brought by the Corporation
Counsel of the town. This civil remedy shall be in addition to and not in lieu
of any criminal prosecution and penalty.
(1996 Code, § 176-143) (Ord. passed 8-12-2008)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Intent
   
153.005   Purpose
   
153.006   Word use
   
153.007   Definitions
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.020   Interpretation of provisions
   
153.021   Relationship to other laws and private restrictions
   
153.022   Provisions not to constitute consent permit
   
153.023   Provisions not to be cumulative
   
153.024   Severability
   
153.025   Application of regulations
   
153.026   Scope of regulations
   
153.027   Nonconforming uses
Zoning Districts; Official Zoning Map
   
153.040   Establishment of districts
   
153.041   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.042   Application of district regulations
   
153.043   Conservation and Agriculture District regulations
   
153.044   A Agriculture District
   
153.045   Residential District regulations
   
153.046   R-2 Multi-Family Residential Districts
   
153.047   MHP Mobile Home Park Residential Districts
   
153.048   Commercial District regulations
   
153.049   CC Core Commercial District
   
153.050   GC General Commercial District
   
153.051   Industrial District regulations
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
153.065   Residential districts
   
153.066   Commercial districts
   
153.067   Industrial districts
Sign Regulations
   
153.080   Commercial districts
   
153.081   Industrial districts
Supplementary District Regulations
   
153.095   Visibility at intersections
   
153.096   Fences, walls and hedges
   
153.097   Accessory buildings
   
153.098   Access required
   
153.099   Parking, storage or use of major recreational equipment
   
153.100   Parking and storage of major farm equipment
   
153.101   Building restriction
Historic Districts
   
153.115   Designation and intent
   
153.116   Creation and composition of Architectural Review Board; appointment,
term, vacancies and powers
   
153.117   Historic District boundaries generally
   
153.118   Alteration or moving of historic structure
   
153.119   Time schedule
   
153.120   Hazardous building or structures
   
153.121   Demolition by neglect
   
153.122   Uses permitted
   
153.123   Lot regulations
   
153.124   Procedure for permit approval
   
153.125   Expiration of certificates of appropriateness and permits to raze
   
153.126   Appeals from Architectural Review Board to Town Council
   
153.127   Appeal to the courts
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.140   Purpose and intent
   
153.141   Applicability
   
153.142   Repairs, alterations and expansion
   
153.143   Expansion of nonconforming use
   
153.144   Change of nonconforming use
   
153.145   Discontinuance
   
153.146   Nonconforming signs
Conditional Use Provisions
   
153.160   Issuance of conditional use permit
   
153.161   Application for conditional use permit
   
153.162   Requirements for permit; general provisions
   
153.163   General requirements for permit
   
153.164   Specific standards for community facility activities
   
153.165   Specific standards for residential activities
   
153.166   Specific standards for commercial activities
   
153.167   Conditional use permit appeals
Zoning Variance Provisions
   
153.180   Issuance of zoning variance
   
153.181   Application for zoning variance
   
153.182   Notice to affected property owners
   
153.183   Standards for variances
   
153.184   Prohibition of use variances
   
153.185   Conditions and restrictions by Board
   
153.186   Reversal of decision of administrative official
   
153.187   Variance appeals
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.200   Creation, membership and appointment of the Board
   
153.201   Terms of office of Board members; vacancies; removals
   
153.202   Staff of Board; compensation of Board members
   
153.203   Powers of Board
   
153.204   Election of officers; terms
   
153.205   Stay of proceedings
   
153.206   Rules and proceedings of Board
   
153.207   Zoning Administrator
Zoning Permits; Certificate of Occupancy and Use Permits
   
153.220   Zoning permits required
   
153.221   Certificate of occupancy and use permit required
Remedies and Enforcement
   
153.235   Complaints regarding violations
   
153.236   Violations
   
153.237   Remedies
Amendments
   
153.250   Authority to amend
   
153.251   Initiation of amendment
   
153.252   Application for amendment; fee
   
153.253   Review and recommendation by Planning Commission
   
153.254   Grounds for amendment
   
153.255   Public hearing; notice
   
153.256   Notice of enactment
   
153.257   Amendments affecting zoning map
   
153.258   Effect of denial of application
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of
Independence, Virginia.” The map portion may be cited separately as the “Zoning
Map of Independence, Virginia.”
(1996 Code, § 176-1)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter and map are adopted pursuant to the authority of VA Code §§
15.2-2200 et seq., and amendments hereto.
(1996 Code, § 176-2)
Editor’s Note:
   The Zoning Map is on file in the Town Manager’s office
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land within the corporate
limits of the town.
(1996 Code, § 176-3)
§ 153.004 INTENT.
   (A)   In pursuance of the authority granted by VA Code §§ 15.2-2210 et seq.,
as amended, this chapter is adopted to provide for the establishment of
districts within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   In each district, the town may regulate, restrict, permit, prohibit
and determine the following:
      (1)   The use of land, buildings, structures and other premises for
agricultural, business, industrial, residential, floodplain and other specific
uses;
      (2)   The size, height, area, bulk, location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, razing or removal of
structures;
      (3)   The areas and dimensions of land, water and air space to be
occupied by buildings, structures and uses, and of courts, yards and other open
spaces to be left unoccupied by uses and structures, including variations in
the sizes of lots based on whether a public or community water supply or sewer
system is available and used; and
      (4)   The excavation or mining of soil or other natural resources.
(1996 Code, § 176-4)
§ 153.005 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the public;
   (B)   To provide for adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety
from fire, flood and other dangers;
   (C)   To reduce or prevent congestion in the public streets;
   (D)   To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive and harmonious
community;
   (E)   To facilitate the provision of adequate police and fire protection,
disaster evacuation, civil defense, transportation, water, sewage, flood
protection, schools, parks, forests, playgrounds, recreational facilities and
other public requirements;
   (F)   To protect against destruction of an encroachment upon historic areas;
   (G)   To protect against one or more of the following: overcrowding of land,
undue density of population in relation to the community facilities existing or
available, obstruction of light and air, danger and congestion in travel and
transportation, or loss of life, health or property from fire, flood, panic or
other dangers;
   (H)   To encourage economic development activities that provide desirable
employment and enlarge the tax base;
   (I)   To provide for the preservation of agricultural and forestal lands and
other lands of significance for the protection of the natural environment;
   (J)   To protect approach slopes and other safety areas of licensed
airports, including United States government and military air facilities; and
   (K)   To promote the creation and preservation of affordable housing
suitable for meeting the current and future needs of the town as well as a
reasonable proportion of the current and future needs of the planning district
within which the town is situated.
(1996 Code, § 176-5)
§ 153.006 WORD USE.
   In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall apply, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The word “lot” shall include the words “part” or “parcel.”
   (E)   The word “building” or “structure” includes all other structures or
parts thereof, of every kind regardless of similarity to buildings.
   (F)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption, illustration or table, the text shall
control.
   (G)   The word “permitted” or words “permitted as of right,” means permitted
without meeting the requirements for a conditional use by special permit
pursuant to §§
153.160 through
153.167, and all other applicable provisions.
   (H)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless
the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (I)   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which reference is made
are those of the town.
(1996 Code, § 176-6)
§ 153.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Except
where definitions are specifically included in various articles and sections,
words in the text or tables of this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions set forth in this section. Where words have not been
defined, the standard dictionary definition shall prevail. In any case, the
Zoning Administrator shall have the right to interpret the definition of any
word.
   ACCESSORY. An activity or structure that is customarily associated with and
is appropriately incidental and subordinate to a principal activity and/or
structure and located on the same lot, except as provided for under the
provisions of accessory off-street parking.
   ALLEY. A public way intended to provide only secondary vehicular access to
abutting properties.
   ATTACHED. An enclosure having walls, roof and floor.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any lot or place which is exposed to the weather upon
which more than five motor vehicles of any kind, incapable of being operated
are placed.
   BASEMENT. A building whose bottom floor is more than 12 inches, but not more
than one-half of its height below average level of the adjoining ground (as
distinguished from a “cellar,” which is more than one-half below such level).
   BUILDING. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof or other
covering, and designed or used for the shelter or enclosure of any person,
animal or property of any kind, including tents, awnings or vehicles situated
on private property and used for purposes of a building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the highest point on a
structure, excepting any chimney or antenna on a building, to the average
ground level of the grade where the walls or other structural elements
intersect the ground.
   BULK. Describes the size of buildings or other structures, and their
relationship to each other and to open areas and lot lines, and therefore
includes:
      (1)   The size (including height and floor area) of buildings or other
structures;
      (2)   The area of the lot upon which a residential building is located,
and the number of dwelling units within each building in relation to the area
of the lot;
      (3)   The location of exterior walls of buildings or other structures in
relation to lot lines, to other walls of the same building, or to other
structures; and
      (4)   All open areas relating to buildings or other structures and their
relationship thereto.
   CELLAR. See BASEMENT.
   CLINIC. An establishment where persons are given medical, dental or surgical
treatment by one but not more than four physicians or dentists with no patients
lodged overnight.
   COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. Refers to a building or other structure having a roof,
and separated on all sides from the adjacent open area or from other buildings
or other structures, by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
or entrance and exit doors normally provided for persons, goods or vehicles.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the district but which, if controlled as to number,
area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public
health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance,
prosperity or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in a district as
CONDITIONAL USES, if specific provisions for such use is made in this chapter.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local public street having only one end open to traffic and
the other end being permanently terminated by an appropriate turnaround for the
safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   CURB LEVEL. The mean of the elevations of the side lot lines extended to the
street line.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.  A detached, single-family dwelling unit with a
permanent steel chassis possessing all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of
foundation supports, connections to utilities and the like.
   DWELLING, MODULAR HOME. A single-family dwelling unit that is constructed
basically as a conventionally built wood frame house except it is built at a
factory and is transported to the site on which it will be permanently located.
The MODULAR HOME may not have a permanent steel chassis.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling units.
The term includes cooperative apartments, condominiums and the like. For
purposes of these regulations, regardless of how rental units are equipped, any
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING in which units are available for rental partly on a
monthly basis and partly for a shorter time period, but with less than 30% of
the living units under the same ownership or management on the same lot being
occupied on a less-than-monthly basis, shall be considered as a semi-transient
residential activity.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A single-family dwelling entirely
separated from structures on adjacent lots.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units, designed tor occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or rooms connected together, constituting a separate
independent housekeeping establishment for one family only, for owner occupancy
or for rental, lease or other occupancy on a weekly or longer basis, physically
separated from any other rooms or dwelling units, and containing independent
cooking and sleeping facilities.
   FAMILY. An individual or a group of two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, together with not more than three additional persons not
related by blood, marriage or adoption, living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
   FLOOR AREA. The total of the gross areas of all floors, including usable
basements and cellars, below the roof and within the outer surface of the main
walls of principal or accessory buildings or the centerlines of party walls
separating such buildings or portions thereof, but excluding the following:
      (1)   Areas used for off-street parking spaces or loading berths and
driveways and maneuvering aisles relating thereto required in this chapter; and
      (2)   In the case of nonresidential facilities: arcades, porticoes and
similar open areas which are located at or near street level, which are
accessible to the general public, and which are not designed or used as sales,
display, storage, service or production areas.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that:
      (1)   Only one person other than members of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building;
      (5)   There shall be no sales in connection with such home occupation;
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard; and
      (7)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family dwelling, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family dwelling.
   HOSPITAL.  An institution rendering medical, surgical, obstetrical or
convalescent care, including nursing homes, homes for the aged and sanitarians
but in all cases excluding institutions primarily for mental or feebleminded
patients, epileptics, alcoholics or drug addicts.
   INCIDENTAL ALTERATIONS.
      (1)   Changes or replacements in the nonstructural parts of a building or
other structure without limitations to the following examples:
         (a)   Alteration of interior partitions to improve livability in a
nonconforming residential building, provided that no additional dwelling units
are created;
         (b)   A minor addition to the exterior of a residential building, such
as an open porch;
         (c)   Alterations of interior non-load-bearing partitions in all other
types of buildings or other structures; and
         (d)   Replacement of, or minor changes in, capacity of utility pipes,
ducts or conduits.
      (2)   Changes or replacements in the structural parts of a building or
other structure, limited to the following examples or others of similar
character or extent:
         (a)   Making windows or doors in exterior walls;
         (b)   Replacement of building facades having non-load-bearing
capacity; and
         (c)   Strengthening the floor load-bearing capacity, in not more than
10% of the total floor area, to permit the accommodation of specialized
machinery or equipment.
   JUNKYARD.  The use of any area of land lying within 100 feet of a state
highway or the use of more than 200 square feet of land area in any location
for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or
other scrap materials. This term includes the term AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD.
   KENNEL. A place prepared to house, board, breed, handle or otherwise keep or
care for dogs, cats or other small animals for sale or in return for
compensation.
   LANDSCAPING. The planting and maintenance of trees, shrubs, lawns and other
ground cover or materials, provided that terraces, fountains, retaining walls,
street furniture, sculptures or other art objects and similar accessory
features may be included as landscaping if integrally designed.
   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
spaces as required by this chapter. A LOT shall have frontage on an approved
public street. A LOT shall either be shown on a plat of record or be considered
as a unit of property described by metes and bounds.
   LOT AREA. The entire area of a lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot which when viewed directly from above,
would be covered by a building or any part of a building.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be the portion nearest the street.
For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner lots and through
lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and
yards shall be provided as indicated in this chapter.
   LOT LINE. A line marking the boundary of a lot.
   LOT MEASURES.
      (1)   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
      (2)   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between side lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the Clerk’s
office of the Circuit Court, or a lot whose existence, location and dimensions
have been legally recorded or registered in a deed prior to the enactment of
this chapter.
   LOT TYPES. The diagram (Figure 1) which follows illustrates terminology used
in this chapter with reference to corner lots, interior lots, reversed frontage
lots and through lots. In this diagram:
      (1)   A = CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost points of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees. See lots marked A(1) in the diagram.
      (2)   B = INTERIOR LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street.
      (3)   C = THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots.
      (4)   D = REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angle less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot (A-D in the diagram), an interior lot (B-D) or a through lot (C-D).
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area where two or more mobile homes or trailers can be
and are intended to be parked, designed or intended to be used as temporary or
permanent living facilities for two or more families.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE.  A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designed to
accommodate one mobile home and which has water, sewer and electricity
available at the space.
   MOBILE HOME STAND.  That part of an individual mobile home space which has
been reserved for the placement of the mobile home.
   MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL, MOTOR LODGE.  The same as TRANSIENT LODGING.
   NONCOMPLYING BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE.
      (1)   Any lawful building or other structure which does not comply with
any one or more of the applicable bulk regulations; or
      (2)   Any lawful use other than a nonconforming use, which does not
comply with any part or any one or more of the applicable regulations
pertaining to: location along district boundary; signs; or accessory off-street
parking and loading; either on the effective date of this chapter or as a
result of any subsequent amendment.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A lawful use of a building or other structure or of a
tract of land which does not conform to any one or more of the applicable use
regulations of the district in which it is located, either on the effective
date of this chapter or as a result of any subsequent amendment.
   PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY. An activity which fulfills a primary function of an
establishment, institution, household or other entity.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building which contains the principal activity or use
located on the lot on which it is situated.
   PROFESSION (PROFESSIONAL OFFICE). The term “profession,” as used in this
chapter, is limited in its application to physicians and surgeons, lawyers,
members of the clergy, architects and engineers, or other persons holding
advanced degrees from institutions of higher learning in the field in which
they practice. The term is not intended to include insurance agents, insurance
adjusters, realtors, photo studios, beauty parlors, barber shops, dance
schools, business schools or any persons engaged in sales or trade. In
permitting PROFESSIONAL OFFICE as home occupations, and only as accessory uses
in certain districts, it is intended that such offices shall be subject to
limitations placed on home occupations generally, but that only offices
occupied by persons engaged in professions, as herein defined, shall be
permitted.
   REQUIRED YARD.  That portion of a lot that is required by the specific
district regulation to be open from the ground to the sky and may contain only
explicitly listed obstructions.
   RESIDENCE.  
      (1)   A building or part of a building containing one or more dwelling
units or rooming units, including single-family or two-family houses, multiple
dwellings, boarding or rooming houses, or apartment hotels.
      (2)   However, RESIDENCES do not include:
         (a)   Such transient accommodations as transient hotels, motels,
tourist homes or similar establishments;
         (b)   Dormitories, fraternity or sorority houses, monasteries or
convents, or similar establishments containing group living or sleeping
accommodations;
         (c)   Nurses, rest homes or other sleeping or living accommodations in
community facility buildings or portions of buildings used for community
facilities; or
         (d)   In a mixed building, that part of the building used for any
nonresidential uses, except uses accessory to residential uses.
   RESTAURANT.  An establishment where food is ordered, prepared and served for
pay.
   RESTAURANT, CONVENTIONAL. A restaurant with a seating capacity of 50 persons
or more wherein the number of counter stools does not exceed 20% of the total
number of seats, including table or booth seats, and food is served primarily
for consumption on the premises in a completely enclosed room, under roof of
the main structure or in an interior court.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A restaurant wherein special facilities are available
or special provision is made to make available service or goods to be consumed
by patrons off the premises, by patrons in automobiles, or by patrons who may
serve themselves and consume the goods in other than a completely enclosed
structure or an interior court on the premises. The term includes any
restaurant offering special “curb service” or “drive-in service.”
   RETAIL STORES AND SHOPS.  Buildings for display and sale of merchandise at
retail or for the rendering of personal services (but specifically exclusive of
coal, wood and lumber yards), such as the following, which will serve as
illustration: drugstore, newsstand, food store, candy shop, dry goods and
notions store, antique store and gift shop, hardware store, household appliance
store, furniture store, optician, music and radio store, tailor shop, banker
shop and beauty shop.
   SEMI-TRANSIENT RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment where lodging is
provided for compensation partly on a monthly or longer basis and partly for a
shorter time period, but with less than 30% of the living units under the same
ownership or management on the same lot being occupied on a less than monthly
basis; but excluding institutional living arrangements involving the provision
of specific kinds of forced residences, such as nursing homes, orphanages,
asylums and prisons.
   SETBACK LINE. A line running parallel to the street which establishes the
minimum distance the principal building must be setback from the street line.
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any writing (including letter, word or numeral); pictorial
presentation (including illustration, or decoration); emblem (including device,
symbol or trademark); flag (including banner or pennant); or any other figure
of similar character, which:
         (a)   Is a structure or any part thereof, or is attached to, painted
on or in any other manner represented on a building or other structure;
         (b)   Is used to announce, direct attention or advertise; and
         (c)   Is visible from outside a building.
      (2)   A SIGN shall include writing, representation or other figure of
similar character within a building only when illuminated and located within a
window.
   SIGN, ACCESSORY BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a profession,
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered on the
same lot.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
commodity, service or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
on the same lot.
   SIGN, CIVIC. A sign identifying the nature of activity and other pertinent
information for any community facility activity.
   SIGN, DEVELOPMENT. A sign denoting the futive facility, architect, engineer,
contractor, lending agency and/or developer on construction site.
   SIGN, REALTY. A sign indicating pertinent information regarding property of
sale, lease or rent.
   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. An accessory sign which indicates the name and/or address
of the occupant or a permitted home occupation.
   STORY. A portion of a building between the surface of any floor and the
surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is no floor above it, the
space between such floor and the ceiling next above it, provided that the
following shall not be deemed a STORY:
      (1)   A basement or cellar if the finished floor level directly above it
is not more than six feet above the average adjoining elevation of finished
grade; and
      (2)   An attic or similar space under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the
wall plates or any exterior walls are not more than two feet above the floor of
such space.
   STREET. A publicly maintained right-of-way, other than an alley, which
affords a primary means of access to abutting property. The word STREET shall
include the words ROAD, HIGHWAY and THOROUGHFARE.
   STREET LINE.  The property line which bounds the right-of-way set aside for
use as a street. Where sidewalks exist and the location of the property line is
questioned, the side of the sidewalk farthest from the traveled street shall be
considered as the street line.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. This includes, but is not limited to, buildings,
towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSIENT LODGINGS. A building or a group of buildings in which sleeping
accommodations are offered to the public and intended primarily for rental to
transients with daily charge.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A travel trailer, pickup camper, converted bus, tent/
trailer, tent or similar device used for temporary portable housing or a unit
which:
      (1)   Can operate independent of connections to external sewer, water and
electrical systems;
      (2)   Contains water storage facilities and may contain a lavatory,
kitchen sink and/or bath facilities; and/or
      (3)   Is identified by the manufacturer as a travel trailer and/or is
designed as a travel trailer.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more travel
trailers, occupied for camping or periods of short stay, are located.
   USE. The purpose for which land or water or a structure thereon is designed,
arranged and intended to be occupied or utilized or for which it is occupied or
maintained
   USE AND OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Zoning
Adrninistrator required before occupying or commencing to use any budding or
other structure or any lot.
   USE, PUBLIC.  Any use that is under control of a unit of general purpose
government or governmental agency.
   USE, RECREATION. Any use of land or water and facilities provided for the
enjoyment of the general public.
   USE, SEMI-PUBLIC. Any use that is under the control of a non-private
organization or a non-governmental agency which provides a public service.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings from the ground to the sky except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. The measurement of a YARD shall be
construed as the minimum horizontal distance between the lot lines and any part
of the building, such as roof overhang.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full length of a front lot line. In
the case of a corner lot, a yard of at least the full depth required for a
FRONT YARD in these regulations, and extending along the full length of a
street line shall be considered a FRONT YARD. At least one such yard shall be
designated for each corner lot, at least two such yards shall be designated for
each through lot, and each through corner lot.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending for the full length of a rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE.  
      (1)   A yard extending along a side lot line from the required front yard
to the required rear yard.
      (2)   In the case of a corner lot, any yard which abuts a street line and
which is not designated a front yard shall be considered a SIDE YARD.
      (3)   In the case of a through lot, SIDE YARDS shall extend between the
required front yards.
   ZONING PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Zoning Administrator which is
required before commencing any construction, reconstruction, alteration of any
building or other structure or before establishing, extending or changing any
activity or use on any lot.
(1996 Code, § 176-7)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 153.020 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
(1996 Code, § 176-8)
§ 153.021 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter upon
the use of land or buildings or upon the height or bulk of buildings are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this chapter or of any other law, resolution, ordinance,
rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive
shall apply.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement provided that where the regulations of this chapter are
more restrictive (or impose higher standards or requirements) than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
(1996 Code, § 176-9)
§ 153.022 PROVISIONS NOT TO CONSTITUTE CONSENT PERMIT.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent, license
or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any building,
structure or facility or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation or
activity.
(1996 Code, § 176-10)
§ 153.023 PROVISIONS TO BE CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with additional limitations
imposed by all other laws and ordinances heretofore passed or which may be
passed hereafter, governing any subject matter appearing in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-11)
§ 153.024 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision
of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provisions to any other property building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
(1996 Code, § 176-12)
§ 153.025 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be constructed, erected, placed
or maintained and no land use commenced within the town except as specifically
or by necessary implication, authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Conditional uses are allowed only on permit granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals upon finding that the specified conditions exist.
   (C)   Where a lot is devoted to a permitted principal use, customary
accessory uses and structures are authorized except as prohibited specifically
or by necessary implication.
(1996 Code, § 176-13)
§ 153.026 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   New uses, lots, buildings or other structures. Upon the effective date
of this chapter any new building or other structure or any tract of land shall
be used, constructed or developed only in accordance with the use, bulk and all
other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses, lots, buildings or other structures.
      (1)   Any existing use legally established prior to the effective date of
this chapter which does not comply with its provisions shall be subject to the
nonconfonning use provision in §§
153.141 et seq.
      (2)   Any existing lot, parcel, building or other structure legally
established prior to the effective date of this chapter which does not comply
with its provisions, other than use provisions, shall be subject to the
nonconforming regulations in §§
153.141 et seq.
      (3)   Alteration of existing buildings and other structures. All
structural alterations or relocation of existing buildings or structures
occurring after the effective date of this chapter and all enlargements of or
additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in
which such buildings, uses or land shall be located.
(1996 Code, § 176-14)
§ 153.027 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use in effect at the time of adoption of this chapter which is not
permitted as of right shall be continued, charged, extended, enlarged or
structurally altered only as set forth in §§
153.141 et seq. of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-15)
ZONING DISTRICTS; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 153.040 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement all purposes and provisions of this chapter, the lands
within the corporate limits of the town are divided into districts designated
as follows:
   (A)   Open Space and Agriculture Districts:
      (1)   CN Conservation; and
      (2)   A Agriculture.
   (B)   Residential Districts:
      (1)   R-1 Medium Density Residential;
      (2)   R-2 Multi-Family Residential; and
      (3)   MHP Mobile Home Park.
   (C)   Commercial Districts:
      (1)   NC Neighborhood Commercial;
      (2)   CC Core Commercial; and
      (3)   GC General Commercial.
   (D)   Industrial Districts: I Industrial;
   (E)   Flood Hazard District; and
   (F)   Historic District.
(1996 Code, § 176-16)
§ 153.041 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts shown on the
official zoning map, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall
be construed as following such corporate limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore lines; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of map.
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the district boundaries.
(1996 Code, § 176-17)
§ 153.042 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as herein provided.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed the height or bulk; to accommodate or house a greater number of
families; to occupy a greater percentage of lot area; to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or other open space than herein
required; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-18) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 CONSERVATION AND AGRICULTURE DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General purpose of Conservation and Agriculture Districts.
      (1)   The conservation and agriculture districts established in this
chapter are designed to promote and protect the health, safety and general
welfare.
      (2)   These general goals include:
         (a)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to be
utilized for agricultural activities;
         (b)   To protect from development conservation and recreation areas
which are unsuited for extensive development due to the topography of the land;
and
         (c)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to be used
as a transitional agricultural area to permit the orderly expansion of urban
development into predominantly agricultural land within the corporate limits.
(1996 Code, § 176-19)
   (B)   CN Conservation District.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. 
         (a)   This district is designed to include areas which cannot readily
support extensive development due to slope and topography.
         (b)   This district is intended to preserve and protect the existing
natural amenities and rural character of these areas.
         (c)   It is the intent of this district to permit agriculture and
forestry as well as to preserve the land for recreational and conservation
uses.
(1996 Code, § 176-20)
      (2)   Uses.
         (a)   Principal permitted uses. Principal permitted uses shall be as
follows:
            1.   Agriculture;
            2.   General fanning;
            3.   Greenhouses; and
            4.   Forestry open space.
         (b)   Permitted accessory uses. Accessory structures customarily
incidental to the above permitted uses.
         (c)   Conditional uses. The following activities may be permitted only
as conditional uses in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
            1.   Public park or playground; and
            2.   Utility facilities necessary for public services.
         (d)   Prohibited uses. Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use
or conditional use is prohibited in the CN District.
(1996 Code, § 176-21)
      (3)   Bulk regulations. These bulk regulations apply to buildings or
other structures located on any lot, including all new developments,
enlargements, extensions or conversions located in the CN District.
         (a)   Minimum required lot area. Within the CN District, the minimum
required lot area for permitted uses shall be 88,000 square feet.
         (b)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the CN District, there is no
maximum lot coverage requirement.
         (c)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other
portion of a building or other structure shall be 50 feet above the curb level,
however, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-22)
      (4)   Yard requirements. These basic yard regulations apply to all lots
located within the CN District.
         (a)   Front yards shall not be less than 50 feet. On corner lots there
shall be a front yard on each street.
         (b)   Side yards shall not be less than 80 feet on each side and a
total of 160 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall not be less than 50 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-23)
      (5)   Sign regulations. In the CN District, signs shall be permitted as
follows:
         (a)   Realty signs, only to advertise the sale or rent of the premises
upon which erected. The maximum size shall be four square feet; and
         (b)   Civic signs; the maximum size shall be eight square feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-24)
(Ord. passed 6-8-2010)
§ 153.044 A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is designed to encompass
agricultural areas into which urban development could logically expand as the
need arises. This district generally surrounds residential development. Public
water and sewerage facilities, police and fire protection, and other community
services necessary to accommodate urban development already exist in the
district or can be economically extended as development occurs.
(1996 Code, § 176-25)
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses. Principal permitted uses shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwelling;
         (b)   Agriculture, general farming, greenhouses and forestry;
         (c)   Place of worship; and
         (d)   Mobile homes.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Private garages and parking areas;
         (b)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other outdoor
recreation facilities exclusively for use of the residents;
         (c)   Customary home occupations as defined and subject to the
provisions of this chapter; and
         (d)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following activities may be permitted only as
conditional uses in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
         (a)   Community education;
         (b)   Public park or playground; and
         (c)   Utility facilities necessary for public services.
      (4)   Prohibited uses. Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or
conditional use is prohibited in the A District.
(1996 Code, § 176-26)
   (C)   Bulk regulations. These bulk regulations apply to buildings or other
structures located on any lot, deluding all new developments, enlargements,
extensions or conversions located in the A District.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the A District, the minimum
required lot area for permitted uses shall be one acre.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the A District, there is no maximum
lot coverage requirement.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-27)
   (D)   Yard requirements. These basic yard regulations apply to all lots
located within the A District.
      (1)   Front yards shall not be less than 50 feet. On corner lots, there
should be a front yard on each street.
      (2)   Side yards shall not be less than 50 feet on each side and a total
of 100 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall not be less than 50 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-28)
   (E)   Sign regulations. In the A District signs shall be permitted as
follows:
      (1)   Realty signs, only to advertise the sale or rent of the premises
upon which erected. The maximum size shall be four square feet;
      (2)   Civic signs: the maximum size shall be eight square feet; and
      (3)   Residential signs: the maximum size shall be two square feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-29)
§ 153.045 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General purpose of Residential Districts. 
      (1)   The residential districts established in this chapter are designed
to promote and protect the health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These general goals include:
         (a)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for
residential developments to meet adequately the housing needs of the present
and expected future population for a variety of choices in site selections;
         (b)   To permit improved movement on the public ways and to utilize
effectively existing public ways, and, as far as possible, to mitigate the
effects of heavy traffic and more particularly, all through traffic, in
residential areas;
         (c)   To protect residential areas against flood, fire, explosions and
other dangers and objectionable influences;
         (d)   To protect residential areas against undue congestion, as far as
possible, by regulating the density of population, the intensity of activity,
and the bulk of buildings in relation to the surrounding land and to one
another, and by providing for off-street parking spaces for automotive
vehicles;
         (e)   To provide for access of light and air to windows and for
privacy, as far as possible, by controls over the height of buildings and
structures;
         (f)   To provide appropriate space for public and private educational,
religious, recreational and similar facilities and public utilities which serve
the needs of nearby residents and which do not create objectionable influences;
and to coordinate the intensity of residential land use with the appropriate
community facilities; and
         (g)   To provide the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
comprehensive plan in order to protect the character of residential
neighborhoods, to conserve the value of land and buildings, and to protect the
community’s tax revenues.
(1996 Code, § 176-30)
   (B)   R-1 Medium Density Residential Districts; purpose and intent. 
      (1)   This district is designed to provide suitable areas for medium
density residential development in areas where necessary community services and
facilities are provided or where the extension of these facilities is
physically and economically feasible.
      (2)   This district will be characterized generally by single-family
dwellings with other type dwellings located where community services and
facilities are adequate to meet all demands.
      (3)   This district also includes community facilities, public utilities
and open uses which serve the residents of these districts.
      (4)   It is the express purpose of this chapter to exclude from this
district all buildings or other structures and uses having commercial
characteristics whether operated for profit or otherwise, except that
conditional uses and home occupations specifically provided for in these
regulations shall be permitted if they otherwise conform to the provisions of
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-31)
   (C)   R-1 Medium Density Residential Districts; uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses. Principal permitted uses shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwelling;
         (b)   Two-family dwelling; and
         (c)   Place of worship.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Private garages and parking areas;
         (b)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other outdoor
recreation facilities exclusively for use of the residents;
         (c)   Customary home occupations as defined and subject to the
provisions of this chapter; and
         (d)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following activities may be permitted only as
conditional uses in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
         (a)   Community education;
         (b)   Library;
         (c)   Public park or playground;
         (d)   Utility facilities necessary for public services; and
         (e)   Bed-and-breakfast, as a home occupation.
      (4)   Prohibited uses. Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or
conditional use is prohibited in the R-1 Medium Density Residential District.
(1996 Code, § 176-32)
   (D)   R-1 Medium Density Residential Districts; bulk regulations. These bulk
regulations apply to buildings or other structures located on any lot,
including all new developments, enlargements, extensions or conversions located
in the R-1 District.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the R-1 District, the minimum
required lot area shall be 11,500 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the R-1 District, the maximum lot
coverage for all structures, including accessory structures, shall not exceed
35% of the total lot area.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-33)
   (E)   R-1 Medium Density Residential Districts; yard requirements. These
basic yard regulations apply to all lots located within the R-1 District.
      (1)   Front yards shall not be less than 30 feet. On double frontage and
corner lots, there shall be a front yard on each street.
      (2)   Side yards shall not be less than ten feet, on each side and a
total of 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall not be less than 30 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-34)
   (F)   Sign regulations. In the R-1 District, signs shall be permitted as
follows:
      (1)   Realty signs, only to advertise the sale or rent of the premises
upon which erected. The maximum size shall be four square feet;
      (2)   Civic signs: the maximum size shall be eight square feet; and
      (3)   Residential signs: the maximum size shall be two square feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-35)
§ 153.046 R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is designed to provide suitable areas for high
density residential development where necessary community services and
facilities are available or where the extension of these facilities are
physically and economically feasible.
      (2)   It is the intent of this district to allow multiple dwelling units
in a building provided there is sufficient lot area and open space in the lot
relative to the number of dwelling units.
      (3)   This district also includes community facilities, public utilities
and open spaces which serve the residents of the district.
      (4)   It is the express purpose of this chapter to exclude from the
district all buildings or other structures and uses having commercial
characteristics whether operated for profit or otherwise, except that
conditional uses and home occupations specifically provided for in these
regulations shall be permitted if they otherwise conform to the provisions of
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-36)
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Place of worship.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Private garages and parking areas;
         (b)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other outdoor
recreation facilities exclusively for the use of the residents;
         (c)   Customary home occupations as defined and subject to the
provisions of this chapter; and
         (d)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (3)   The following activities may be permitted only as conditional uses
in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
         (a)   Community education;
         (b)   Library;
         (c)   Public park or playground;
         (d)   Utility facilities necessary for public service; and
         (e)   Bed-and-breakfast, as a home occupation.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or conditional use
is prohibited in the R-2 High Density Residential District.
(1996 Code, § 176-37)
   (C)   Bulk regulations. These bulk regulations apply to all buildings or
other structures located on any lot, including all new developments,
enlargements, extensions or conversions located in any R-2 District.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the R-2 District, the minimum
required lot area for multi-family dwelling shall be 9,000 square feet or 2,500
square feet for each dwelling unit, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the R-2 District, the maximum lot
coverage for all buildings and structures, including accessory structures,
shall not exceed 40% of the total lot area.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-38)
   (D)   Yard requirements. These basic yard regulations apply to all lots
located within the R-2 District.
      (1)   Front yards shall not be less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Side yards shall not be less than eight feet on each side and a
total of 16 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall not be less than 30 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-39)
   (E)   Sign regulations. In the R-2 District signs shall be permitted as
follows:
      (1)   Realty signs, only to advertise the sale or rent of the premises
upon which erected. The maximum size shall be six square feet;
      (2)   Civic signs: the maximum size shall be eight square feet; and
      (3)   Residential signs: the maximum size shall be two square feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-40)
   (F)   Regulations for site plan review.
      (1)   General provisions. No permits shall be issued for the construction
of or conversion to multiple-family dwelling until the proposed site
development plan has been reviewed by the Town Planning Commission and approved
by the Town Council.
      (2)   Design considerations. 
         (a)   Approval of the Town Council of the site development plans will
require that the plat of the proposed design indicate the location and size
(height and bulk) of all proposed buildings; traffic circulation features
(vehicular and pedestrian); recreation areas; other open spaces; walls, hedges,
fences and signs that may be proposed; and the proposed handling of sewage
disposal, water supply and storm drainage.
         (b)   Before approving the site development plan, the Town Council
shall be assured that safety and convenience of traffic movement is provided
both on the site and at the points of access to public streets and that the
architectural style and building layout are in harmony with adjacent areas.
(1996 Code, § 176-41)
§ 153.047 MHP MOBILE HOME PARK RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is designed to provide suitable areas for mobile home
park residential development where appropriate community services and
facilities are provided or where the extension of such facilities will be
physically and economically feasible.
      (2)   This district will be characterized by single-family mobile home
dwellings in mobile home parks, and accessory structures.
      (3)   This district will also include community facilities, public
utilities and open uses which serve the residents of the district.
      (4)   Home occupations specifically provided for in these regulations
shall be permitted if they otherwise conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-42)
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Mobile home dwelling in mobile home park; and
         (b)   Place of worship.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Private garages and parking areas;
         (b)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other outdoor
recreation facilities exclusively for the use of the residents;
         (c)   Customary home occupations as defined and subject to the
provisions of this chapter; and
         (d)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (3)   The following activities may be permitted only as conditional uses
in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
         (a)   Community education;
         (b)   Library;
         (c)   Public park or playground; and
         (d)   Utility facilities necessary for public service.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or conditional use
is prohibited in the MHP Mobile Home Park Residential District.
(1996 Code, § 176-43)
   (C)   Bulk regulations. These bulk regulations apply to all buildings or
other structures located on any lot, including all new developments,
enlargements, extensions or conversions located in any MHP District.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within all MHP Districts, the minimum
required lot area for mobile home park shall be five acres.
      (2)   Minimum mobile home plot size. The minimum plot size for an
individual mobile home in the mobile home park shall be 4,500 square feet and
served by public sewer.
(1996 Code, § 176-44)
   (D)   Yard requirements. These basic provisions apply to all individual
mobile home plots located in the Mobile Home Park District.
      (1)   Front yards for each individual mobile home plot shall be a minimum
of 15 feet.
      (2)   Side yards for each individual mobile home plot shall be a minimum
of 15 feet on each side and a total of 30 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards for each individual mobile home plot shall be a minimum
of 15 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-45)
   (E)   Special provisions for mobile homes. Due to the unique characteristics
of mobile homes, the following restrictions are applied in order to eliminate
the adverse effects of such structures and at the same time, permit such
structures as an alternative form of housing.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be underpinned, and axles and wheels shall
be covered. The trailer hitch shall be removed if it is the removable type or
shielded if not removed. All mobile homes shall be set on firm blocks at a
minimum depth of 14 inches. Each mobile home shall be anchored with approved
anchors.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be permitted only in those locations designated
on the town’s zoning map as MHP Mobile Home Park Residential District. No
traditional housing units shall be permitted in this district in order to
prevent a mixture of the two types of structures.
(1996 Code, § 176-46)
   (F)   Licenses and permit required.
      (1)   No mobile home may be located in the town, unless the same shall be
in an approved and duly licensed mobile home park or in the Agricultural
District.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate within
the corporate limits of the town any mobile home park unless such person shall
first obtain a zoning and occupancy permit for the park. (The County Health
Department also requires a permit to operate a MHP.)
(1996 Code, § 176-47)
   (G)   Application for license.
      (1)   Applications for a mobile home park zoning permit shall be filed
with and issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Applications shall be in writing signed by the applicant and shall
contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the mobile home park;
         (c)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with division (I)
below;
         (d)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park. The sketch shall
be drawn to scale showing the number and arrangement of mobile home lots,
roadways, water supply, water outlets, location and type of sewage, liquid and
garbage disposal and location on other facilities; and
         (e)   Such further information as may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator to enable a determination to be made that the proposed park will
comply with legal requirements.
      (2)   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall
be filed in triplicate.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator, the County Health Department and the
Mayor shall review the proposed plans and specifications.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall approve the application and upon
completion of the park according to the plans, shall issue the occupancy
permit.
(1996 Code, § 176-48)
   (H)   Specifications for mobile home park plan. The mobile home park shall
conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
      (2)   The minimum required lot area for a mobile home park shall be five
acres.
      (3)   Mobile home spaces shall be clearly defined and mobile homes parked
so that there will be at least 30 feet of clear space between mobile homes or
any attachment, such as a garage or porch, 15 feet between mobile homes and any
buildings or structure, and at least 15 feet between any mobile home park
property line. No mobile home shall be located closer than 15 feet to any
public street or highway.
      (4)   The minimum plot size for an individual mobile home in the mobile
home park shall be 4,500 square feet.
      (5)   The minimum yard requirement for all individual mobile home plots
in the mobile home park are:
         (a)   Front yards for individual mobile home plots shall be a minimum
of 15 feet; and
         (b)   Side yards for individual mobile homes plots shall be a minimum
of 15 feet and a total of 30.
      (6)   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than
30 feet in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street. All
driveways shall be lighted at night with 25-watt lamps at intervals of 100 feet
located approximately 15 feet from the ground
      (7)   Paved walkways not less than three feet wide shall be provided from
the mobile home spaces to the service buildings. The walkways shall be lighted
at night with twenty-five-watt lamps at intervals of 100 feet approximately 15
feet from the ground.
      (8)   An electric outlet supplying 100 and 220 volts shall be provided
for each mobile home space, and shall be weatherproof and accessible to the
parked mobile home. All electrical installations shall be in compliance with
the National Electrical Code.
      (9)   An adequate supply for water under pressure from a source and of a
quality approved by the State Department of Health shall be provided; town
water shall be used. Water shall be piped and metered to each mobile home lot.
      (10)   Liquified petroleum gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at
individual mobile home spaces unless the containers are properly connected by
copper or other suitable metallic tubing.
         (a)   Liquified petroleum gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place, and adequately protected from the weather.
         (b)   No cylinder containing liquefied petroleum gas shall be located
in a mobile home, nor within five feet of a door thereof.
      (11)   Waste from laundries shall be discharged into a public sewer in
compliance with applicable ordinances. All kitchen sinks, washbasins, bath or
shower tubs in any mobile home in any park shall empty into the sanitary sewer
drain located on the mobile home space. Mobile home parks shall connect to the
municipal sewer with approved and sized lines.
      (12)   Refuse storage, collection and disposal shall be in accordance
with other regulations and ordinances of the town.
      (13)   The mobile home park shall be subject to the rules and regulations
of the fire prevention authorities having jurisdiction.
      (14)   No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor become
a part of, any mobile home. All mobile homes shall be set upon concrete blocks
or steel piers which are constructed upon a concrete footing, and each mobile
home shall be anchored with approved anchors.
      (15)   All service buildings, mobile homes, mobile home spaces and the
grounds of the park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept
free of any conditions that will menace the health of any occupant or the
public or constitute a nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 176-49)
   (I)   Register of occupants.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a register containing
a record of all mobile home owners and occupants located within the park. The
register shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of each occupant;
         (b)   The make, model and year of all mobile homes;
         (c)   Title number and owner of each mobile home;
         (d)   The state issuing such title; and
         (e)   The dates of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
      (2)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all
times by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials
whose duties necessitate knowledge of the information contained in the
register. The register records shall be current and for the three previous
years.
(1996 Code, § 176-50) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General purposes of Commercial Districts.
      (1)   The commercial districts established by this chapter are designed
to promote and protect the health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These general goals include:
         (a)   To provide sufficient space for the many and diverse types of
commercial activity needed to serve the people and industry of the town;
         (b)   To promote the improvement and orderly growth of the existing
well-located commercial centers;
         (c)   To protect adjacent residential areas from offensive and
detrimental influences; and
         (d)   To promote the most efficient and desirable land use.
(1996 Code, § 176-54)
   (B)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is designed to provide a limited variety of goods and
services for the immediate residential neighborhood.
      (2)   It is not intended that this district permit uses which generate
large volumes of truck traffic.
      (3)   Adequate buffers and appropriate open spaces between commercial and
residential areas are required to protect the integrity of residential
neighborhoods.
(1996 Code, § 176-55)
   (C)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Convenience sales and service business;
         (b)   Real estate sales office;
         (c)   Insurance sales office, provided that no motor vehicles may be
stored on-site for more than four hours for the purpose of processing same for
coverage claims;
         (d)   Dwelling, single-family detached; and
         (e)   A combination, within the same structure, of items in divisions
(C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)(d), (C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(d) or (C)(1)(c) and (C)(1)(d)
above.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Accessory facilities and building customarily incidental to a
permitted use;
         (b)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities as required
in §
153.066; and
         (c)   Signs in accordance with the regulations of §
153.080.
      (3)   The following activity may be permitted only as a conditional use
in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167:
         (a)   Utility facilities necessary for public services;
         (b)   Retail sales office;
         (c)   Personal services office, defined to include such business as
insurance adjusters, photo studios, beauty parlors, barber shops, dance
schools, business schools or persons engaged in sales or trade, but such
professional service businesses must operate in such a manner so as to not
produce on-street parking issues, traffic issues, nor noise issues; and
         (d)   A combination, within the same structure, of dwelling, single-
family detached, and any one of items in divisions (C)(3)(a), (C)(3)(b) or (C)
(3)(c) above.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or conditional use
is prohibited in the Neighborhood Commercial District.
(1996 Code, § 176-56)
   (D)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the NC District, there is no
minimum lot size.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the NC District, the maximum lot
coverage for all structures, including accessory structures, shall not exceed
40% of the total lot area.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 25 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-57)
   (E)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; yard requirements. The basic yard
regulations appearing below apply to all lots within the NC Districts.
      (1)   Front yards.
         (a)   Front yards shall be a minimum of 40 feet on lots that do not
have facilities for parking within the required front yard. On lots that
provide parking within the required front yard, the front yard shall be a
minimum of 60 feet.
         (b)   On double frontage and corner lots, there shall be a front yard
on each street.
      (2)   Side yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet on each side and a total
of 100 feet when the lot adjoins a residential district. For all other lots
within the NC District, the minimum side yard shall be 30 feet on each side and
a total of 60 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet when the lot adjoins a
residential district. For all other lots within the NC District, the minimum
rear yard shall be 30 feet.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) above, for
existing structures, the front, side and rear yard requirements shall be the
existing front, side and rear yard as exists at the time the property is re-
zoned as Neighborhood Commercial, provided that the Town Council, in
considering there-zoning request, finds that the proposed use is harmonious
with each use of the adjoining properties.
(1996 Code, § 176-58)
   (F)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; use of required yard areas. The
following uses may be made of yard areas in the NC District:
      (1)   Landscaping. All yards not occupied by parking and sidewalks shall
be devoted to landscaping as defined in §
153.007;
      (2)   Driveway; and
      (3)   Sidewalks.
(1996 Code, § 176-59)
   (G)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; site plan review.
      (1)   For all proposed development within the NC District, prior to
issuance of a building permit, a site plan for the use and development of the
entire tract shall be submitted to the Planning Commission. The site plan shall
conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   Include the following:
            1.   All existing and proposed roads and drainageways;
            2.   Curb cuts, drives and parking areas;
            3.   Landscaping and planting screens;
            4.   Building lines enclosing the portion of the tract within which
buildings are to be erected;
            5.   The proposed use of the land and buildings; and
            6.   The existing zoning.
         (c)   Include a vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed
development to:
            1.   The entire town;
            2.   The street system;
            3.   The surrounding use districts; and
            4.   Surrounding properties.
         (d)   Provide a form for certification by the owner and trustee of the
mortgage, if any, that they adopt the plan, and dedicate the streets as shown
on the plan and agree to make any required improvements of adjacent streets as
shown on the plan.
      (2)   If the proposed building or use is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, a permit shall be issued to the applicant by the
Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-60)
   (H)   NC Neighborhood Commercial District; enclosure, floor space and
storage requirements.
      (1)   Enclosure requirements. All uses shall be conducted within
completely enclosed building except for parking, loading and other accessory
uses which by their nature must exist outside a building.
      (2)   Floor space limitation. No establishment shall occupy more than
2,500 square feet of floor space.
      (3)   Exterior storage of goods or materials of any kind is prohibited.
The placement of waste disposal facilities is permitted in rear yards only, and
such facilities shall be appropriately screened and maintained using the same
material from which the principal use is constructed.
(1996 Code, § 176-61)
(Ord. passed 1-14-2014)
§ 153.049 CC CORE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is designed to provide for a wide range of retail,
office, amusement and service uses normally found in a central business
district.
      (2)   High intensity of use is permitted in this district, and increased
building bulk is provided as a means of encouraging such development.
      (3)   This district is intended to be designed in a manner conductive to
and safe for a high volume of pedestrian traffic.
(1996 Code, § 176-62)
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Convenience sales and service;
         (b)   Retail sales and service;
         (c)   Professional office;
         (d)   Financial institution;
         (e)   General personal service;
         (f)   Automotive repair and cleaning;
         (g)   Place of worship;
         (h)   Public building;
         (i)   Restaurants; and
         (j)   Animal services.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Accessory facilities and buildings customarily incidental to a
permitted use;
         (b)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities as required
in § 153.066; and
         (c)   Signs in accordance with the regulations of § 153.080.
      (3)   The following activities may be permitted only as conditional uses
in accordance with §§ 153.160 through 153.167:
         (a)   Dwelling unit;
         (b)   Library;
         (c)   Public park or playground; and
         (d)   Utility facilities necessary for public service.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or conditional use
is prohibited in the Core Commercial District.
(1996 Code, § 176-63) (Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
   (C)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the CC District, there is no
minimum lot size.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the CC District, there is no maximum
lot coverage requirement.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other
portions of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb
level. However, this shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-64)
   (D)   Yard requirements. Within the CC District, no yards, as such, are
required. However, if an open area extending along a side lot line is provided,
it shall be at least ten feet wide, and it shall be unobstructed from the
ground to the sky.
(1996 Code, § 176-65)
   (E)   Use of open space. The following uses may be made of any open space in
the CC District:
      (1)   Landscaping. All open areas not occupied by driveways, sidewalks
and parking or loading, shall be devoted to landscaping as defined in §
153.007;
      (2)   Driveway;
      (3)   Off-street parking; and
      (4)   Sidewalks.
(1996 Code, § 176-66)
   (F)   Site plan review.
      (1)   For all proposed development within the CC District, prior to
issuance of a building permit, a site plan for the use and development of the
entire tract shall be submitted to the Planning Commission. The site plan shall
conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   Include the following:
            1.   All existing and proposed roads and drainageways;
            2.   Curb cuts, drives and parking areas;
            3.   Landscaping and planting screens;
            4.   Building lines enclosing the portion of the tract within which
buildings are to be erected;
            5.   The proposed use of the land and buildings; and
            6.   The existing zoning.
         (c)   Include a vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed
development to:
            1.   The entire town;
            2.   The street system;
            3.   The surrounding use districts; and
            4.   Surrounding properties.
         (d)   Bear a certificate by a licensed civil engineer certifying that
the plan as shown is true and correct;
         (e)   Bear a form for certificate of approval by:
            1.   Town Council; and
            2.   The Secretary of the Planning Commission.
         (f)   Provide a form for certification by the owner and trustee of the
mortgage, if any, that they adopt this plan and dedicate the streets as shown
on the plan and agree to make any required improvements of adjacent streets as
shown on the plan.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall refer the site plan to the Town
Council which shall review the site plan. The Town Council shall review and
make a recommendation to the applicant after receipt from the Planning
Commission within 30 days.
(1996 Code, § 176-67)
   (G)   Exterior storage.
      (1)   Exterior storage of goods and materials of any kind is prohibited,
unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The placement of waste disposal facilities shall be in the rear of
buildings only, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-68)
§ 153.050 GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. 
      (1)   This district is designed to provide adequate space in appropriate
locations for the establishment of a wide variety of uses including commercial
trades and services, entertainment facilities, offices and establishments
engaged in wholesale trade.
      (2)   Since these activities tend to generate relatively large volumes of
traffic and have other characteristics detrimental to residential districts,
their locations should be removed from the proximity of residential districts
as much as possible.
(1996 Code, § 176-69)
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Convenience sales and services;
         (b)   Retail sales and service;
         (c)   Professional office;
         (d)   Animal care;
         (e)   Financial institution;
         (f)   General personal service;
         (g)   Automotive repair and cleaning;
         (h)   Transient habitation;
         (i)   Construction sales and service;
         (j)   Wholesale sales;
         (k)   Place of worship;
         (l)   Community education;
         (m)   Library;
         (n)   Public park or playground;
         (o)   Community assembly;
         (p)   Utility facilities necessary for public service;
         (q)   Healthcare;
         (r)   Public building; and
         (s)   Restaurants.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Accessory facilities and structures customarily incidental to
the above permitted uses;
         (b)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities as required
in §
153.066; and
         (c)   Signs in accordance with the regulations of §
153.080.
      (3)   The following activity may be permitted only as a conditional use
in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167: dwelling unit.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right or by accessory use is prohibited in
the GC General Commercial District.
(1996 Code, § 176-70)
   (C)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the GC District, the minimum
required lot area shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the GC District, the maximum lot
coverage for all structures, including accessory structures, shall not exceed
50% of the total lot area.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-71)
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yards shall be a minimum of 40 feet on lots that do not have
facilities for parking within the required front yard. On lots that provide
parking within the required front yard, the front yard shall be a minimum of 60
feet. On double frontage and corner lots, there shall be a front yard on each
street.
      (2)   Side yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet on each side and a total
of 100 feet when the lot adjoins a residential district. For all other lots
within the GC District, the minimum side yard shall be 30 feet on each side and
a total of 60 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet when the lot adjoins a
residential district. For all other lots within the GC District, the minimum
rear yard shall be 30 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-72)
   (E)   Use of required yard area.
      (1)   Landscaping. All required yard areas not occupied by sidewalks and
parking shall be devoted to landscaping as defined in §
153.007.
      (2)   Driveway.
(1996 Code, § 176-73)
   (F)   Site plan review.
      (1)   For all proposed development within the GC District, prior to
issuance of a building permit, a site plan for the use and development of the
entire tract shall be submitted to the Planning Commission. The site plan shall
conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   Include the following:
            1.   All existing and proposed roads and drainageways;
            2.   Curb cuts, drives and parking areas;
            3.   Landscaping and planting screens;
            4.   Building lines enclosing the portion of the tract within which
buildings are to be erected;
            5.   The proposed use of the land and buildings; and
            6.   The existing zoning.
         (c)   Include a vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed
development to:
            1.   The entire town;
            2.   The street system;
            3.   The surrounding use districts; and
            4.   Surrounding properties.
         (d)   Provide a form for certification by the owner and trustee of the
mortgage, if any, that they adopt the plan, and dedicate the streets as shown
on the plan and agree to make any required improvements of adjacent streets as
shown on the plan.
      (2)   If the proposed building or use is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter a permit shall be issued to the applicant by the
Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-74)
   (G)   Exterior storage. The placement of waste disposal facilities is
permitted in rear yards only, and such facilities shall be approximately
screened and maintained using the same material from which the principal use is
constructed.
(1996 Code, § 176-75)
§ 153.051 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General purpose of Industrial Districts.
      (1)   The industrial district established by this chapter is designed to
promote and protect the health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These general goals include:
         (a)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations which are
adequately served by community facilities to meet the needs for industrial
expansion in the town;
         (b)   To encourage industrial development which is free from hazards
to the public health and which is environmentally safe and nonpolluting;
         (c)   To protect industrial activities against congestion,
encroachment from incompatible land uses and other adverse characteristics;
         (d)   To protect adjacent residential and commercial areas from
incompatible land uses and offensive influences; and
         (e)   To promote the most efficient and desirable use of land.
(1996 Code, § 176-89)
   (B)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is designed to provide space for a limited range of
industrial uses which have high performance standards and the least
objectionable characteristics.
      (2)   In this district, all industrial operations shall be carried on
within completely enclosed buildings, thus preventing any adverse
characteristics from affecting neighboring properties.
      (3)   Residential uses are excluded from this district.
      (4)   Only those community facility and commercial uses which are
essential to provide needed services for industry are permitted in this
district.
(1996 Code, § 176-90)
   (C)   Uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs. Also the manufacture of small parts, such as
coils, condensers, transformers and crystal holders;
         (b)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, repairing,
rebuilding, reconditioning, body and fender work, truck repairing or
overhauling;
         (c)   Blacksmith shop, welding or machine shop, excluding punch
presses exceeding forty-ton rated capacity and drop hammers;
         (d)   Laboratories, pharmaceutical or medical;
         (e)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products;
         (f)   Manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of merchandise
from the following previously prepared materials: bone, cellophane, canvas,
cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, metal,
paper, plastic, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, rubber, shell,
straw, textiles, tobacco, wood, yarn and paint;
         (g)   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
         (h)   Building material sales yard, plumbing supplies storage;
         (i)   Contractors’ equipment storage yards or plants, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
         (j)   Cabinets, furniture and upholstery shops;
         (k)   Boatbuilding;
         (l)   Monumental stone works;
         (m)   Veterinary or dog or cat hospital, kennels;
         (n)   Wholesale businesses, storage warehouses;
         (o)   Truck terminals; and
         (p)   Public utility generating, booster or relay stations,
transformer substations, transmission lines and towers, and other facilities
for the provision and maintenance of public utilities, including railroads and
facilities, and water and sewerage installations.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   Signs in accordance with the regulations of §
153.081;
         (b)   Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities as required
in §
153.067; and
         (c)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to a permitted use.
      (3)   The following activities may be permitted only as a conditional use
in accordance with §§
153.160 through
153.167 and division (H)(1) below.
         (a)   Convenience sales and service; and
         (b)   Food service.
      (4)   Any use not allowed by right, by accessory use or by conditional
use is prohibited in the I District.
(1996 Code, § 176-91)
   (D)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area. Within the I District, there is no
minimum lot size.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage. Within the I District, the maximum lot
coverage for all structures, including accessory structures, shall not exceed
50% of the total lot area.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a front wall or other portion
of a building or other structure shall be 35 feet above the curb level.
However, this limitation shall not apply to: belfries; spires; flagpoles; or
antennas.
(1996 Code, § 176-92)
   (E)   Yard requirements. These basic provisions apply to all lots within the
I District.
      (1)   Front yards shall be a minimum of 40 feet. On double frontage and
corner lots, there shall be a front yard on each street.
      (2)   Side yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet where the lot adjoins a
residential district. For all other lots within the I District, the minimum
side yard shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards shall be a minimum of 50 feet where the lot adjoins a
residential district. For all other lots within the I District, the minimum
rear yard shall be 25 feet.
(1996 Code, § 176-93)
   (F)   Use of required yard areas. The following uses may be made of yard
areas in the I District:
      (1)   Landscaping. All yards not occupied by driveways and sidewalks
shall be devoted to landscaping as defined in §
153.007;
      (2)   Driveways; and
      (3)   Sidewalks.
(1996 Code, § 176-94)
   (G)   Site plan review.
      (1)   For all proposed development within the I District, prior to
issuance of a building permit, a site plan for the use and development of the
entire tract shall be submitted to the Planning Commission. The site plan shall
conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   Include the following:
            1.   All existing and proposed roads and drainage ways;
            2.   Curb cuts, drives and parking areas;
            3.   Landscaping and planting screens;
            4.   Building lines enclosing the portion of the tract within which
buildings are to be erected;
            5.   The proposed use of the land and buildings; and
            6.   The existing zoning.
         (c)   Include a vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed
development to:
            1.   The entire town;
            2.   The street system;
            3.   The surrounding use districts; and
            4.   Surrounding properties.
         (d)   Provide a form for certification by the owner and trustee of the
mortgage, if any, that they adopt the plan, and dedicate the streets as shown
on the plan and agree to make any required improvements of adjacent streets as
shown on the plan.
      (2)   If the proposed building or use is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter a permit shall be issued to the applicant by the
Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-95)
   (H)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Commercial activities. The commercial activities permitted in
division (C)(3) above shall be permitted only when such services are designed
to serve occupants and portions of the permitted use and are conducted in
spaces which are integral parts of the main building.
      (2)   Enclosure requirements. All uses shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings except for parking and loading, exterior storage
and other accessory uses which by their nature must exist outside a building.
      (3)   Exterior storage. Exterior storage may be permitted in the side and
rear of the principal building only, provided the location, extent and
screening of storage is approved as a part of the site plan by the Planning
Commission; and further, provided that exterior storage shall be screened from
public view by a suitable fence, wall or hedge not exceeding 15 feet in height
with the stored materials to be kept at least two feet below the top of such
screen.
      (4)   Surfacing of storage areas. All storage areas shall be surfaced to
provide a durable and dust-free surface. All areas shall be graded and drained
so as to dispose of all surface water in the area.
(1996 Code, § 176-96)
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.065 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   In all residential districts, accessory off-street parking, open or
enclosed, shall be provided in accordance with the following provisions as a
condition precedent to the use.
      (2)   After the effective date of this chapter, for all enlargements or
modifications which increase the floor area, number of employees, seating
capacity or other applicable unit of measurement, the same requirements shall
apply to such enlargement or modification.
(1996 Code, § 176-51)
   (B)   Space requirements for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Space requirements for accessory off-street parking shall be as
follows: residential dwelling: two spaces per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Place of worship: one space for each three seats in the church
sanctuary.
      (3)   Community education:
         (a)   High schools (grades 10 through 12, inclusive): four spaces per
classroom or one space for each six seats in an auditorium, arena or stadium
whichever requires the greatest number of space, but in no case shall more than
300 spaces be required, except as may be recommended by the Planning
Commission; and
         (b)   Elementary and junior high schools: two spaces per classroom.
      (4)   Library: one space for each four seats in the building.
      (5)   Public park or playground: the number of spaces to be prescribed by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Utility facilities: the number of spaces to be prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-52)
   (C)   Additional regulations for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Operation of accessory off-street parking spaces. Off-street
parking spaces in residential districts which are accessory to community
facilities shall be used by occupants, visitors, patrons or employees of such
uses and shall not be rented.
      (2)   Area of off-street parking spaces. Each accessory off-street
parking space shall contain 340 square feet of unobstructed standing or
maneuvering area. However, an area of 180 square feet may be considered as one
space where the layout and design of the parking area are adequate to permit
convenient access and maneuvering.
      (3)   Design of off-street parking spaces. All off-street parking areas
shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other hard-surfaced dustless
material and so constructed to provide for adequate drainage.
(1996 Code, § 176-53)
§ 153.066 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   In commercial districts, accessory off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the following provisions as a condition
precedent to the use.
      (2)   After the effective date of this chapter, for all enlargements or
modifications which increase the floor area, number of employees, seating
capacity or other applicable unit of measure, the same requirements shall apply
to such enlargement or modification.
(1996 Code, § 176-76)
   (B)   Space requirements for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Space requirements for accessory off-street parking shall be as
follows: place of worship: one space for each three seats in the church
sanctuary.
      (2)   Community education.
         (a)   High schools (grades 10 through 12, inclusive): four spaces per
classroom or one space for each six seats in an auditorium, arena or stadium
whichever requires the greatest number of space, but in no case shall more than
300 spaces be required, except as may be recommended by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Elementary and junior high schools: two spaces per classroom.
      (3)   Community assembly: for nonprofit clubs, lodges, meeting halls and
recreation centers, one space for each four seats in an assembly area within
the facility, or one space for each 75 square feet of gross floor area,
whichever is greater.
      (4)   Library: one space for each four seats in the building.
      (5)   Public park or playground: the number of spaces to be prescribed by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Utility facilities: the number of spaces to be prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Commercial use: one accessory off-street parking space shall be
provided for the specified number of square feet of gross floor area for the
following activities:
Activity Gross Floor Area (square feet)
Activity                                      Gross Floor Area (square feet)
Animal care                                   200
Automotive repair and cleaning                500
Construction sales and service                1,000
Convenience sales and service                 150
Dwelling units (NC District)                  1,000
Financial institution                         400
General personal service                      300
Insurance office (NC District)                300
Personal services office (NC District)        300
Professional office                           150
Real estate office (NC District)              300
Retail sales office (NC District)             300
Retail sales and service                      500
Vehicular, craft and related equipment sales, 500
rental and service
Wholesale sales                               1,000
 
      (8)   Mortuary service: one space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
area, or when a chapel is provided, one space for each four permanent seats
plus one space for every 25 square feet of floor area where temporary seats are
used, whichever requires the greater number of spaces.
      (9)   Group assembly: one space per four permanent seats plus one space
for every 25 square feet of area where temporary seats are used.
      (10)   Transient habitation: one space for each unit in a building
serving transient guests.
(1996 Code, § 176-77)
   (C)   Additional regulations for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Building containing two or more uses. When a building or lot
contains two or more uses having different parking requirements, the parking
requirements for each type of use shall apply to the extent of that use.
      (2)   Operation of accessory off-street parking spaces. Off-street
parking spaces which are accessory to community facility and commercial uses
shall be designed and operated exclusively for the storage of motor vehicles
used by the visitors, occupants, employees, patrons or customers of these uses.
      (3)   Area of accessory off-street parking spaces. Each accessory off-
street parking space, open or enclosed, shall be a minimum of nine feet wide
and 20 feet long exclusive of drives, ramps and aisles.
(1996 Code, § 176-78)
   (D)   Off-site accessory parking requirements. Off-site accessory parking
spaces in any commercial district, except the Core Commercial District may be
located on a lot other than the same lot on which the use is located, provided
that:
      (1)   Such spaces are located in a general commercial district or an
industrial district;
      (2)   There is no way to arrange the spaces on the same lot as the use;
      (3)   The spaces are located to draw a minimum of vehicular traffic to
and through streets having predominantly residential frontage;
      (4)   The spaces are located no further than 500 feet from the nearest
boundary of the lot occupied by the uses to which the spaces are accessory;
      (5)   The spaces are in the same fee simple ownership as the use to which
the spaces are accessory; and
      (6)   The spaces conform to all applicable district regulations of both
the district in which the principal use is located and in the district in which
the spaces are located. In the event of conflict between the applicable
district regulations, the most restrictive shall prevail.
(1996 Code, § 176-79)
   (E)   Design of off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Location of access to the street. The entrances and exits of all
required or permitted accessory off-street parking facilities with five or more
spaces shall be located not less than 50 feet from the intersection of any two
streets.
      (2)   Surfacing. All off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with
asphalt, concrete or other hard-surfaced dustless material and so constructed
to provide for adequate drainage.
      (3)   Screening.
         (a)   Open off-street parking areas with five or more parking spaces
which are located on a lot adjacent to the boundary of a residential district
shall be screened from the residential district by either:
            1.   A strip at least four feet wide, densely planted with shrubs
or trees at least four feet high at the time of planting, and which are of a
type which may be expected to form a year-round dense screen at least six feet
high within three years; or
            2.   A wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence of fire-resistant
material at least six feet in height. Such wall, barrier or fence may be opaque
or perforated provided that not more than 50% of the fence is open.
         (b)   In addition such screening:
            1.   Shall be maintained in good condition at all times;
            2.   Shall not be placed within 15 feet of the normal vehicular
entrances and exits;
            3.   Shall have no signs hung or attached thereto other than those
permitted signs for parking areas specified in this chapter; and
            4.   Shall not obstruct visibility of motorists at street
intersections.
(1996 Code, § 176-80)
   (F)   General purposes and applicability for off-street loading regulations.
      (1)   General purposes. The following provisions for accessory off-street
loading berths are adopted in order to provide needed space off public streets
for loading and unloading activities, to limit the use of streets for such
purposes, to help relieve traffic congestion in commercial areas, and thus to
promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter on accessory off-
street loading regulations shall apply to community facility and commercial
uses permitted by right, by accessory use or by conditional use in all
commercial districts except the Core Commercial District.
(1996 Code, § 176-81)
   (G)   Accessory off-street loading berth requirements.
      (1)   General provisions. In all districts, accessory off-street loading
berths, open or enclosed, shall be provided for all community facility and all
commercial uses developed after the effective date of this chapter, as a
condition precedent to the use of such development. After the effective date of
this chapter, if the use of any building or other structure is enlarged or
modified to increase the floor area, the requirements set forth in division (G)
(2) below shall apply to the increased floor area of the enlarged or modified
portion of such building.
      (2)   Space requirements for off-street loading berths for community
facility in Commercial Districts.
Activity For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Activity                For Floor Area (in square feet)        Required Berths
Community assembly      Less than 20,000                       None
Community education     20,000 to 100,000                      1
                        Less than 10,000                       None
Health care             10,000 to 100,000                      1
                        100,001 to 300,000                     2
                        Each additional 300,000                1
Library; administrative 100,001 to 300,000                     2
                        The number of spaces shall be
Place of worship        prescribed by the Zoning Administrator
                        based on a report from the Planning
                        Commission
Utility facilities      Each additional 300,000                1
 
      (3)   Space requirements for off-street loading berths for commercial
activities in Commercial Districts.
Activity For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Activity                       For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
                               Less than 2,000                 None
                               2,001 to 10,000                 1
                               10,001 to 25,000                2
Construction sales and service 25,001 to 40,000                3
                               40,001 to 60,000                4
                               60,001 to 100,000               5
                               Each additional 80,000 or       1
                               fraction of 1/2 or more
Convenience sales and service  Less than 10,000                None
                               10,000 to 25,000                1
                               Less than 20,000                None
General personal service;      20,000 to 100,000               1
financial institution;         100,001 to 300,000              2
transient habitation           Each additional 300,000 or      1
                               fraction of 1/2 or more
General retail sales and       25,001 to 40,000                2
service                        40,001 to 60,000
                               60,001 to 100,000               4
Group assembly                 Each additional 150,000 or      1
                               fraction of 1/2 or more
                               Less than 2,500                 None
Mortuary service               2,500 to 5,000                  1
                               Each additional 10,000 or       1
                               fraction of 1/2 or more
                               Less than 10,000                None
Wholesale sales; automotive    10,000 to 25,000                1
repair and cleaning; animal    25,001 to 40,000                2
care; vehicular, craft and     40,001 to 60,000                3
related equipment, sales,      60,001 to 100,000               4
rental and delivery            Each additional 80,000 or       1
                               fraction of 1/2 or more
 
      (4)   Size of required berths. Off-street loading berths, opened or
enclosed, shall have minimum dimensions of: length: 55 feet; width: 12 feet;
and vertical clearance: 15 feet. These dimensions shall not include driveways
or entrances to, or exits from, such off-street berths.
      (5)   Location of access to the street. The entrances and exits to all
required accessory off-street loading berths shall be located not less than 50
feet from the intersection of any two street lines.
      (6)   Surfacing. All permitted or required open off-street loading berths
shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other hard surfaced material, and
constructed so as to provide for adequate drainage and prevent the release of
dust.
      (7)   Screening.
         (a)   All permitted or required open off-street loading berths located
adjacent to residences or a residential district shall be screened from the
adjoining residential district, by either:
            1.   A strip at least four feet wide, densely planting with shrubs
or trees which are at least four feet high at the time of planting and which
are of a type which may be expected to from a year-round dense screen at least
six feet high within three years; or
            2.   A wall or barrier of uniformly painted fence of fire-resistant
material, at least six feet high but not more than eight feet high, as measured
from the finished grade. Such wall, barrier or fence may be opaque or
perforated provided that not more than 50% of the fence is open.
         (b)   In addition, such screening:
            1.   Shall be maintained in good condition at all times;
            2.   Shall not be located within 15 feet of normal vehicular
entrances and exits; and
            3.   Shall have no signs hung or attached thereto other than those
permitted signs for loading berths as specified in this chapter.
      (8)   Location. All off-street loading facilities shall be located in the
rear of the principal building.
(1996 Code, § 176-82)
(Ord. passed 1-14-2014)
§ 153.067 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General provisions. 
      (1)   In the industrial district, accessory off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the following provisions as a
condition precedent to the use.
      (2)   After the effective date of this chapter, for all enlargements or
modifications which increase the floor area, number of employees, seating
capacity or other applicable unit of measure, the same requirements shall apply
to such enlargement or modification.
(1996 Code, § 176-97)
   (B)   Space requirements for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Utility facilities. The number of spaces shall be prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Commercial use. One accessory off-street parking space shall be
provided for the specified number of square feet of gross floor area for the
following activities:
 
Activity                       Gross Floor Area (square feet)
Animal care                    200
Construction sales and service 1,000
Convenience sales and service  150
Food service                   150
Wholesale sales                1,000
 
      (3)   Transportation and warehousing. One space for each 5,000 square
feet of gross floor area plus one space for each 10,000 square feet of open
storage.
      (4)   Industrial use. One accessory off-street parking space shall be
provided for each 1,500 square feet of gross floor area or one space for each
three employees during a single or two successive shifts, whichever requires
the greater number of spaces.
(1996 Code, § 176-98)
   (C)   Additional regulations for accessory off-street parking.
      (1)   Building containing two or more uses. When a building or lot
contains two or more uses having different parking requirements, the parking
requirements for each type of use shall apply to the extent of that use.
      (2)   Operation of accessory off-street parking spaces. Off-street
parking spaces which are accessory to community facility, commercial and
industrial uses shall be designed and operated exclusively for the storage of
motor vehicles used by the visitors, occupants, employees, patrons or customers
of these uses.
      (3)   Area of accessory off-street parking spaces. Each accessory off-
street parking space, open or enclosed, shall be a minimum of nine feet wide
and 20 feet long exclusive of drives, ramps and aisles.
(1996 Code, § 176-99)
   (D)   Off-site accessory parking requirements. Off-site accessory parking
spaces in the industrial district may be located on a lot other than the same
lot on which the use is located, provided that:
      (1)   Such spaces are located in the industrial district;
      (2)   There is no way to arrange the spaces on the same lot as the use;
      (3)   The spaces are located to draw a minimum of vehicular traffic to
and through streets having predominantly residential frontage;
      (4)   The spaces are located no further than 500 feet from the nearest
boundary of the lot occupied by the uses to which the spaces are accessory;
      (5)   The spaces are in the same fee simple ownership as the use to which
the spaces are accessory; and
      (6)   The spaces conform to all applicable district regulations.
(1996 Code, § 176-100)
   (E)   Design of off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Location of access to the street. The entrances and exits of all
required or permitted accessory off-street parking facilities with five or more
spaces shall be located not less than 50 feet from the intersection of any two
streets.
      (2)   Surfacing. All off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with
asphalt, concrete or other hard-surfaced dustless material and so constructed
to provide for adequate drainage.
      (3)   Screening. 
         (a)   Open off-street parking areas with five or more parking spaces
which are located on a lot adjacent to the boundary of a residential district
shall be screened from the residential district by either:
            1.   A strip at least four feet wide, densely planted with shrubs
or trees at least four feet high at the time of planting, and which are of a
type which may be expected to form a year-round dense screen at least six feet
high within three years; or
            2.   A wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence of fire-resistant
material at least six feet in height. Such wall, barrier or fence may be opaque
or perforated provided that not more than 50% of the fence is open.
         (b)   In addition such screening:
            1.   Shall be maintained in good condition at all times;
            2.   Shall not be placed within 15 feet of the normal vehicular
entrances and exits;
            3.   Shall have no signs hung or attached thereto other than those
permitted signs for parking areas specified in this chapter; and
            4.   Shall not obstruct visibility of motorists at street
intersections.
(1996 Code, § 176-101)
   (F)   General purposes and applicability for off-street loading regulations.
      (1)   General purposes. The following provisions for accessory off-street
loading berths are adopted in order to provide needed space off public streets
for loading and unloading activities, to limit the use of streets for such
purposes, to help relieve traffic congestion in commercial areas, and thus to
promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter on accessory off-
street loading regulations shall apply to community facility, commercial and
industrial uses permitted by right, by accessory use or by conditional use in
the industrial district.
(1996 Code, § 176-102)
   (G)   Accessory off-street loading berth requirements.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   In this district, accessory off-street loading berths, open or
enclosed, shall be provided for all community facility, commercial and
industrial uses developed after the effective date of this chapter, as a
condition precedent to the use of such development.
         (b)   After the effective date of this chapter, if the use of any
building or other structure is enlarged or modified to increase the floor area,
the requirements set forth in division (G)(2) below shall apply to the
increased floor area of the enlarged or modified portion of such building.
      (2)   Space requirements for off-street loading berths for community
facility in the Industrial District.
 
Activity           For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Utility facilities Less than 20,000                None
                  20,001 to 100,000               1
                  100,001 to 300,000              2
                  Each additional 300,000         1
 
      (3)   Space requirements for off-street loading berths for commercial
activities in the Industrial District.
Activity For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Activity                       For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Convenience sales and service; Less than 10,000                None
food service                   10,000 to 25,000                1
                               25,000 to 40,000                2
                               Less than 10,000                None
                               10.000 to 25,000                1
Wholesale sales; construction  25,001 to 40,000                2
sales and service              40,001 to 60,000                3
                               60,001 to 100,000               4
                               Each additional 80,000          1
 
      (4)   Space requirements for off-street loading berths for industrial
activities in the Industrial District.
Activity For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
Activity                        For Floor Area (in square feet) Required Berths
                                Less than 2,000                 None
                                2,001 to 10,000                 1
                                10,001 to 25,000                2
Transportation and warehouses   25,001 to 40,000                3
                                40,001 to 60,000                4
                                60,001 to 100,000               5
                                Each additional 80,000          1
                                Less than 5,000                 1
                                5,001 to 20,000                 2
All other industrial activities 20,001 to 40,000                3
                                40,001 to 60,000                4
                                60,001 to 100,000               5
                                Each additional 80,000          1
 
      (5)   Special provisions for a single lot with uses subject to different
loading requirements. When any building or lot contains two or more uses having
different requirements for loading berths as set forth in divisions (G)(2), (G)
(3) and (G)(4) above, and provided that the floor area of each separate use is
less than the minimum floor area for which berths are required, then off-street
loading berths shall be provided as if the total floor area were used-for that
use for which the most berths are required.
      (6)   Size of required berths. 
         (a)   Off-street loading berths, opened or enclosed shall have a
minimum dimensions of: length: 55 feet; width: 12 feet; and vertical clearance:
15 feet.
         (b)   These dimensions shall not include driveways or entrances to, or
exits from, such off-street berths.
      (7)   Location of access to the street. The entrances and exits to all
required accessory off-street loading berths shall be located not less than 50
feet from the intersection of any two street lines.
      (8)   Surfacing. All permitted or required open off-street loading berths
shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other hard surfaced material, and
constructed so as to provide for adequate drainage and prevent the release of
dust.
      (9)   Screening.
         (a)   All permitted or required open off-street loading berths located
adjacent to residences or a residential district shall be screened from the
adjoining residential district, by either:
            1.   A strip at least four feet wide, densely planting with shrubs
or trees which are at least four feet high at the time of planting and which
are of a type which may be expected to form a year-round dense screen at least
six feet high within three years; or
            2.   A wall or barrier of uniformly painted fence of fire-resistant
material, at least six feet high but not more than eight feet high, as measured
from the finished grade. Such wall, barrier or fence may be opaque or
perforated provided that not more than 50% of the fence is open.
         (b)   In addition, such screening:
            1.   Shall be maintained in good condition at all times;
            2.   Shall not be located within 15 feet of normal vehicular
entrances and exits; and
            3.   Shall have no signs hung or attached thereto other than those
permitted signs for loading berths as specified in this chapter.
      (10)   Location. All off-street loading facilities shall be located in
the rear of the principal building.
(1996 Code, § 176-103)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 153.080 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall govern the regulation of signs
in commercial districts.
      (2)   The purpose of these sign provisions is to provide the necessary
signs for safety, public convenience and identification without impairing the
residential character of the town.
      (3)   This chapter authorizes the use of signs visible from public
rights-of-way provided the signs are:
         (a)   Compatible with their surroundings, pursuant to the objectives
of proper design;
         (b)   Allowing and promoting optimum conditions of meeting the sign
users needs while also promoting an amenable environment desired by the general
public;
         (c)   Designed, constructed, installed and maintained in such a manner
that they do not endanger public safety or traffic safety;
         (d)   Legible, readable and visible in the circumstances in which they
are used; and
         (e)   Respectful of the reasonable rights of other advertisers whose
messages are displayed.
(1996 Code, § 176-83)
   (B)   Placement and design of signs.
      (1)   Prohibition of obstructive signs. No sign may be arranged so that
it interferes with traffic, through glare, through blocking of reasonable sight
lines for streets, sidewalks or driveways, through conrusion with a traffic
control device (by reason of its color, location, shape or other
characteristics), or through any other means. Rotation beacons and flashing
sidewalk signs are prohibited.
      (2)   Location of signs. Any portion of a sign or a pole or standard of
such sign which is in contact with the ground shall be within the lot lines of
the property.
         (a)   Height of signs. Signs shall not exceed the height of the
structure housing the business advertised or 25 feet, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Overhanging signs. Overhanging signs referring to business
operated on the premises are permitted, provided that any such sign shall not
be allowed to protrude more than two feet from the building front, and shall
not exceed one square inch for each square foot of that business store front,
up to a maximum of ten square feet. Under canopy signs are permitted provided
they do not exceed 250 square inches and allow a clearance of seven feet from
sidewalk to bottom of sign.
(1996 Code, § 176-84)
   (C)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully erected and
maintained prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to remain as
a nonconforming sign.
      (2)   Any sign damaged to the extent that it represents a public hazard
as determined by the Building Inspector shall be removed immediately.
      (3)   Nonconforming signs advertising a business which changes ownership
must be removed within 90 days of the date of change of ownership.
(1996 Code, § 176-85)
   (D)   Sign review plan.
      (1)   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any sign upon any
property without first submitting a drawing to the Building Inspector showing
sign lettering dimensions, methods of attachment and the area in which the sign
is to be located.
      (2)   Neon signs shall have no exposed electrodes. All lighted signs will
meet the requirements of the local electrical codes.
      (3)   Upon receiving written approval from the Building Inspector, the
proposed sign may be constructed.
(1996 Code, § 176-86)
   (E)   Exemptions from sign regulations. The following shall not be subject
to the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Signs provided or required by a duly constituted government body,
including traffic or similar regulatory devices, legal notices or warning at
railroad crossings;
      (2)   Flags or emblems of a political, philanthropic, education or
religious organizations;
      (3)   Temporary signs for a period not to exceed three months announcing
a campaign, drive or event listed in division (E)(2) above;
      (4)   Memorial plaques or tablets;
      (5)   Small signs each not to exceed one square foot of display surface
area, displayed for the direction or convenience of the public, including signs
which identify rest rooms, freight entrances or the like; and
      (6)   Small realty signs as defined in §
153.007.
(1996 Code, § 176-87)
   (F)   Sign maintenance. Any sign damaged to the extent that it represents a
public hazard or becomes unsightly due to lack of proper maintenance shall be
removed after the owner has been notified in writing.
(1996 Code, § 176-88)
§ 153.081 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the regulation of signs
in the industrial district. The purpose of these sign provisions is to provide
the necessary signs for safety, public convenience and identification without
impairing the residential character of the town.
      (2)   This chapter authorizes the use of signs visible from public
rights-of-way provided the signs are:
         (a)   Compatible with their surroundings, pursuant to the objectives
of proper design;
         (b)   Allowing and promoting optimum conditions of meeting the sign
users needs while also promoting an amenable environment desired by the general
public;
         (c)   Designed, constructed, installed and maintained in such a manner
that they do not endanger public safety or traffic safety;
         (d)   Legible, readable and visible in the circumstances in which they
are used; and
         (e)   Respectful of the reasonable rights of other advertisers whose
messages are displayed.
(1996 Code, § 176-104)
   (B)   Placement and design of signs.
      (1)   Prohibition of obstructive signs. No sign may be arranged so that
it interferes with traffic, through glare, through blocking of reasonable sight
lines for streets, sidewalks or driveways, through confusion with a traffic
control device (by reason of its color, location, shape or other
characteristics), or through any other means. Rotation beacons and flashing
sidewalk signs are prohibited.
      (2)   Location of signs. Any portion of a sign or a pole or standard of
such sign which is in contact with the ground shall be within the lot lines of
the property.
      (3)   Height of signs. Signs shall not exceed the height of the structure
housing the business advertised or 25 feet, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Overhanging signs. Overhanging signs referring to business operated
on the premises are permitted, provided that any such sign shall not be allowed
to protrude more than two feet from the building front, and shall not exceed
one square inch for each square foot of that business store front, up to a
maximum of ten square feet. Under canopy signs are permitted provided they do
not exceed 250 square inches and allow a clearance of seven feet from sidewalk
to bottom of sign.
(1996 Code, § 176-105)
   (C)   Nonconforming signs. Any advertising structure or sign which was
lawfully erected and maintained prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be
allowed to remain as a nonconforming sign. Any sign damaged to the extent that
it represents a public hazard as determined by the Building Inspector shall be
removed immediately. Nonconforming signs advertising a business which changes
ownership must be removed within 90 days of the date of change of ownership.
(1996 Code, § 176-106)
   (D)   Sign review plan. No person shall erect, construct or maintain any
sign upon any property without first submitting a drawing to the Building
Inspector showing sign lettering dimensions, methods of attachment and the
areas in which the sign is to be located. Neon signs shall have no exposed
electrodes. All lighted signs will meet the requirements of the local
electrical codes. Upon receiving written approval from the Building Inspector,
the proposed sign may be constructed.
(1996 Code, § 176-107)
   (E)   Exemptions from sign regulations. The following shall not be subject
to the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Signs provided or required by a duly constituted government body,
including traffic or similar regulatory devices, legal notices or warning at
railroad crossings;
      (2)   Flags or emblems of apolitical, philanthropic, education or
religious organizations;
      (3)   Temporary signs for a period not to exceed three months announcing
a campaign, drive or event listed in division (E)(2) above;
      (4)   Memorial plaques or tablets;
      (5)   Small signs each not to exceed one square foot of display surface
area, displayed for the direction of convenience of the public, including signs
which identify rest rooms, freight entrances or the like; and
      (6)   Small realty signs as defined in §
153.007.
(1996 Code, § 176-108)
   (F)   Sign maintenance. Any sign damaged to the extent it represents a
public hazard or becomes unsightly due to lack of proper maintenance shall be
removed after the owner has been notified in writing.
(1996 Code, § 176-109)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.095 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any district, except the Core Commercial District,
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to be grown in such a
manner as to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets.
(1996 Code, § 176-123)
§ 153.096 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the
edge of any yard except as prohibited in §
153.095.
(1996 Code, § 176-124)
§ 153.097 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building shall be erected in any required yard, and no separate
accessory building shall be erected within five feet of any other building.
(1996 Code, § 176-125)
§ 153.098 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   Every structure shall be on a lot fronting a public street, and all
structures shall be located on lots so as to provide safe and convenient access
for servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
(1996 Code, § 176-126)
§ 153.099 PARKING, STORAGE OR USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, major recreational equipment includes
boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, tent trailers, pickup campers or
coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings
and the like.
   (B)   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored in any front
yard of any lot in a residential district. However, such equipment may park
anywhere on residential premises for not to exceed 24 hours during loading or
unloading.
   (C)   No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping
purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any location not
approved for such use.
(1996 Code, § 176-127)
§ 153.100 PARKING AND STORAGE OF MAJOR FARM EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, major farm equipment includes threshing
machines, hay bailers, tractors, livestock trailers and livestock hauling
equipment.
   (B)   No major farm equipment shall be parked or stored in any front, side
or back yard of any lot in a residential district.
(1996 Code, § 176-128)
§ 153.101 BUILDING RESTRICTION.
   Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings shall be
erected on any lot.
(1996 Code, § 176-129)
HISTORIC DISTRICTS
§ 153.115 DESIGNATION AND INTENT.
   (A)   Districts may hereafter be created which are designated as Historic
Districts (HD) within the definition of historic district as defined in the VA
Code§§ 10.1-2200 et seq. Said districts shall be created by amendment of this
chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of VA Code §§ 10.1-2200 et seq., as
amended, for the purpose of promoting the general welfare, education and
recreational pleasure of the public, through the perpetuation of those areas or
individual structures and premises which have been or may be officially
designated by the Town Council as having historic or architectural
significance, historic districts are created. Regulations within such districts
are intended to protect against deterioration, destruction of or encroachment
upon such areas, structures and premises; to encourage uses which will lead to
their continuance, conservation and improvement in an appropriate manner; and
to assure that new structures and uses within such districts will be in keeping
with the character to be preserved and enhanced.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this subchapter that the Town Council,
along with the Planning Commission, shall seek and obtain the advice and
assistance of the Architectural Review Board, created herein, as well as other
organizations or individuals qualified by interest, training and experience in
achieving the objectives as set forth.
(1996 Code, § 176-130)
§ 153.116 CREATION AND COMPOSITION OF ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD: APPOINTMENT,
TERM, VACANCIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   For the general purposes of this subchapter and specifically to
preserve and protect historic places and areas in the town through the control
of demolition of such places and through the regulation of architectural design
and uses of structures in such areas, there is hereby created a board to be
known as the “Architectural Review Board” (ARB) to be composed of five voting
members. The members of said Architectural Review Board shall be appointed by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The membership shall consist of five members, a majority of which
shall be residents of the town, and all of whom have reasonable knowledge and
have demonstrated an interest in historic or architectural development within
the town.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Initial
appointments shall be three members for four years, and remaining members for
two years. The term of any Planning Commission member shall be concurrent with
his or her appointment to the Planning Commission.
   (D)   The ARB shall elect from its own membership a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson who shall serve annual terms and may succeed themselves. The ARB
shall appoint a Secretary who shall serve at their pleasure.
   (E)   (1)   The ARB shall meet in regular session at least semiannually or
whenever an application has been filed for their consideration. Special
meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or a majority of the
members after 24 hours’ written notice to each member served personally or left
at his or her usual place of business or residence. Such notice shall state the
time and place of a meeting and the purpose thereof.
      (2)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of
the special meeting has been fixed at a regular meeting, or if all members are
present at the special meeting or file a written waiver of notice. For the
conduct of any hearing and the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less
than a majority of all voting members of the Board. The Board may make, alter
or rescind rules and forms for its procedures, consistent with the ordinances
of the town and the general laws of the state.
      (3)   The Board shall establish procedures for all matters coming before
it for review and all meetings shall be open to the public. Adequate notice
shall be given to applicants, but meetings need not be advertised in advance
except in the case of a proposal to demolish or move a designated landmark or
contributing structure. Notice when required shall be publication of the agenda
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county seven days prior to the
meeting.
   (F)   The Architectural Review Board shall have the power and authority of
issuing or denying certificates of appropriateness for construction,
reconstruction, substantial exterior alteration, razing or relocation within
the historic district, with right of direct appeal of an adverse decision to
the Town Council.
   (G)   In addition to the aforementioned powers and duties, the Board shall
have the following duties:
      (1)   To assist and advise the Town Council, the Planning Commission, and
other town departments, agencies and property owners in matters involving
historically significant sites and buildings, such as appropriate land usage,
parking facilities and signs;
      (2)   To advise owners of historic landmarks, or contributing structures
on problems of preservation; and
      (3)   To propose additional historic districts.
   (H)   In addition, the Board shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To conduct studies deemed necessary by the Town Council or Planning
Commission concerning additional districts, and means of preservation and
utilization of historic assets in the town;
      (2)   To formulate recommendations to the Town Council concerning the
establishment of an appropriate system of markers for selected historic sites
and buildings, including proposals for the installation and care of such
historic markers; and
      (3)   To cooperate with and enlist assistance from the Virginia Historic
Landmarks Commission, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, and other
interested parties both public and private in its efforts to preserve, restore
and conserve historic landmarks, buildings, sites or areas within the town.
(1996 Code, § 176-131)
§ 153.117 HISTORIC DISTRICT BOUNDARIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Character.
      (1)   The Historic District boundaries shall in general be drawn so as to
include lands closely related to and bearing upon the character of the historic
site or sites, thus providing a landscape unit needed to control potentially
adverse influences.
      (2)   The concept of historic district shall include groupings of
structures which have significance relative to their patterns of development
and/or interrelationships among such structures, while some of the structures
might not possess significant merit when considered alone.
   (B)   Inventory of landmarks and contributing properties established. The
ARB shall prepare and recommend for adoption as a part of this chapter an
inventory map based upon the criteria set forth in this chapter. This map,
hereinafter called the “inventory map,” when adopted shall be as much a part of
this chapter as if fully described herein and shall be filed as a part of this
chapter by the Clerk of the town. All structures or sites designated on said
map as landmark structures for the purposes of this chapter will consist of
structures or sites designated as properties which contribute to the historic
character of the town. Sites which do not contain landmark structures or sites
shall be known as contributing properties all others shall be known as
noncontributing properties. The inventory map may be amended form time to time
in the same manner as the zoning district map.
   (C)   Establishment of and amendments to Historic District boundaries and
regulations. The ARB may propose to the Planning Commission and the Town
Council such amendments as deemed appropriate, including the establishment of
historic districts and revision to existing historic districts. Upon receipt of
said proposal, the Town Council shall initiate such amendment pursuant to this
chapter. The ARB shall prepare and submit a report to substantiate the proposed
amendment Such report shall establish and define the historic district
boundaries as defined upon an appropriate overlay map, as well as the historic
and/or architectural significance of the buildings, structures and/or fabric to
be preserved, and describe current planning, present trends, conditions and
desirable public objectives for preservation.
(1996 Code, § 176-132)
§ 153.118 ALTERATION OR MOVING OF HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Application and approval for a building and zoning permit is required
before the ARB and/or Town Council approval is obtained to authorize the
reconstruction, demolition, alteration, renovation or moving of an historic
landmark, building or structure. The boundaries of the historic site district
shall conform to the applicants lot of record. No building or structure,
including signs, shall be erected, reconstructed, altered or restored, within
the historic site district (HSD) unless the same is approved by the ARB, or, on
appeal, by Town Council as being architecturally compatible with the historic
landmarks, buildings or structures therein. No historic landmark, building or
structure within the historic site district shall be razed, demolished or moved
until approved by the ARB, or, on appeal, by the Town Council after
consultation with the ARB.
   (B)   However, the owner of an historic landmark, as a matter of right shall
be entitled to sell or demolish such landmark, provided that:
      (1)   He or she has applied to the Architectural Review Board for such
right;
      (2)   The owner has for the period of time set forth in the time schedule
hereinafter contained at a price reasonably related to its fair market value as
determined by independent appraisal, as hereinafter set forth, made a bona fide
offer to sell such landmark, and the land pertaining thereto, to such person,
firm, corporation, government or agency, or political subdivision or agency
thereof, which gives reasonable assurance that it is willing to preserve and
restore the landmark and the land pertaining thereto. The procedure for
establishing the fair market value: the owner and the Architectural Review
Board shall each retain one independent, qualified appraiser. Should the two
appraisers not agree upon the said fair market value, those appraisers shall
choose a third qualified appraiser, whereby a median value shall be established
by the three appraisers which shall be final and binding upon the owner and the
Architectural Review Board; and
      (3)   No contract for the sale of any such historic landmark, and the
land pertaining thereto, shall be binding or enforceable prior to the
expiration of the applicable time period as set forth in the time schedule
hereinafter contained. Any appeal which may be taken to the Town Council from
the decision of the Architectural Review Board, and from the Town Council to
the Circuit Court of the county, shall not affect the right of the owner to
make bona fide offer to sell. Offers to sell as provided in this section shall
be made within one year of the date of application to the Architectural Review
Board.
      (4)   Before making a bona fide offer to sell, an owner shall first file
a written statement with the Chairperson of the Architectural Review Board.
Such statement shall identify the property, take the offering price, the date
the offer of sale is to begin, and name of the real estate agent, if any. No
time period set forth in the time schedule hereinafter set forth shall begin to
run until such statement has been filed.
(1996 Code, § 176-133)
§ 153.119 TIME SCHEDULE.
   The time schedule for offers to sell shall be as follows:
   (A)   Three months when the offering price is less than $25,000;
   (B)   Four months when the offering price is $25,000 or more, but less than
$40,000;
   (C)   Five months when the offering price is $40,000 or more, but less than
$55,000;
   (D)   Six months when the offering price is $55,000 or more, but less than
$75,000;
   (E)   Seven months when the offering price is $75,000 or more, but less than
$90,000; and
   (F)   Twelve months when the offering price is $90,000 or more.
(1996 Code, § 176-134)
§ 153.120 HAZARDOUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURES.
   A determination that a building is hazardous to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town shall not be made except in conformance
with the applicable laws of said town. In connection therewith, when such
determination is made for a structure in the (HD) demolition shall not be
commenced without written approval of the ARB verifying the conditions
necessitating such action.
(1996 Code, § 176-135)
§ 153.121 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   No officially designated historic landmark within any historic
district shall be allowed to deteriorate due to neglect by the owner which
would result in violation of the intent of this section. “Demolition” by
neglect shall include any one or more of the following courses of action or
inaction:
      (1)   Deterioration of the exterior of a building to the extent that it
creates or permits a hazardous or unsafe condition;
      (2)   Deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports,
horizontal members, roofs, chimneys, exterior wall elements such as siding,
wooden walls, brick plaster or mortar, to the extent that it adversely affects
the character of the historic district or could reasonably lead to irreversible
damage to the structure; and/or
      (3)   Action by any governmental authority relative to the safety or
physical condition of any building.
   (B)   In the event that the ARB determines that a structure in an historic
district is being “demolished by neglect,” it shall so notify the owner stating
the reasons therefor, and shall give the owner 90 days from the date of the
notice in which to commence work. If appropriate action is not taken in this
time, the Zoning Administrator will initiate appropriate legal action as
provided herein.
(1996 Code, § 176-136)
§ 153.122 USES PERMITTED.
   Within the Historic District, uses shall be permitted pursuant to the
official zoning ordinance and map.
(1996 Code, § 176-137)
§ 153.123 LOT REGULATIONS.
   Lot regulations shall be the same as the lot regulations with which the
historic districts may be combined. No existing lot, or combination of lots,
parcels or portions thereof, in single ownership at the time of district
creation shall be reduced in width, depth, except in conformance with the
regulations for the Zoning District on which the Historic District overlays.
(1996 Code, § 176-138)
§ 153.124 PROCEDURE FOR PERMIT APPROVAL.
   Except as authorized herein the Zoning Administrator shall not authorize a
permit for the erection, reconstruction, integral exterior facade change,
demolition or razing of a building or structure in the Historic District until
the same has been approved by the ARB as set forth in the following procedures.
   (A)   Receipt of application. Upon receipt of an application by the Zoning
Administrator for a use or action in the Historic District, the Zoning
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Forthwith forward to the ARB a copy of the application, together
with a copy of the site plan and the building plans and specifications filed by
the applicant;
      (2)   Maintain in his or her office a record of all such applications and
of his or her handling and final disposition of the same; and
      (3)   Require applicants to submit three copies of material required to
permit compliance with the foregoing.
   (B)   Material to be submitted for review. By general rule, or by specific
request in a particular case, the ARB may require submission of any or all of
the following in connection with the application: architectural plans, site
plans, landscaping plans, construction methods, proposed signs with appropriate
detail as to character, proposed exterior lighting arrangements, elevations of
all proposed exterior lighting arrangements, elevations of all portions of
structure with important relationships to public view (with indications as to
visual construction materials, design of doors and windows, colors and
relationships to adjoining structures), and such other exhibits and reports as
are necessary for its determinations. Requests for approval of activities
proposed in historic districts shall be accepted only from the record owner of
the land involved in such proposal, or his or her agent.
   (C)   Other approvals required. In any case in which an applicant proposal
also requires the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals, final action by the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall precede final action by the ARB.
   (D)   Action by the Architectural Review Board: issuance of certificates of
appropriateness. 
      (1)   The ARB shall render a decision upon any request or application for
a certificate of appropriateness within 60 days after the filing of such
application; failure of the Architectural Review Board to render such a
decision within said 60-day period unless such period be extended with the
concurrence of the applicant shall entitle the applicant to proceed as if the
Architectural Review Board had granted the certificate of appropriateness
applied for.
      (2)   Prior to denying the certificate of appropriateness, the
Architectural Review Board, on the basis of the review of information received,
shall, upon request, indicate to the applicant the changes in plans and
specifications, if any, which in the opinion of the Board would protect and/or
preserve the historical aspects of the landmark, building, structure or
district.
      (3)   If the applicant determines that he or she will make the suggested
changes and does so in writing, the Architectural Review Board may issue the
certificate of appropriateness.
(1996 Code, § 176-139)
§ 153.125 EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS AND PERMITS TO RAZE.
   (A)   Any certificate of appropriateness issued pursuant to this subchapter
and any permit to raze a building issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
expire of its own limitation 12 months from the date of issuance if the work
authorized thereby is not commenced by the end of such 12-month period; and
further, any such certificate and permit shall also expire and become null and
void if such authorized work is suspended or abandoned for a period of 12
months after being commenced.
   (B)   Any period or periods of time during which the right to use any such
certificate or permit is stayed pursuant to this subchapter shall be excluded
from the computation of the 12 months.
(1996 Code, § 176-140)
§ 153.126 APPEALS FROM ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Whenever the Architectural Review Board shall, in a final decision,
disapprove an application for a certificate of appropriateness, or whenever the
Architectural Review Board shall, in a final decision, disapprove an
application for a certificate of appropriateness to raze a building, the
applicant for such certificate shall have the right to appeal to and be heard
before the Town Council; provided, that within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, a notice in writing of his or her intention to appeal is filed with the
Town Clerk. Upon receipt of such notice, the Town Clerk shall forthwith notify
the Zoning Administrator who shall schedule a public hearing before the Town
Council pursuant to public notice as required by VA Code § 15.2-2204. Each such
notice shall be accompanied by a check or money order in at least the sum of
$50 to cover the costs of such notice.
   (B)   Whenever the ARB shall, in a final decision, approve an application
for a certificate of appropriateness, or whenever the ARB shall, in a final
decision, approve an application for a permit to raze a building, opponents to
the granting of such certificate or of such permit shall have the right to
appeal to and be heard before the Town Council; provided, that their appeal is
filed with the Town Clerk, within 15 days after the decision of the ARB. Upon
receipt of such notice, the Town Clerk shall forthwith notify the Zoning
Administrator, who shall schedule a public hearing before the Town Council
pursuant to a public notice as required by VA Code § 15.1-431. Each such notice
shall be accompanied by a check or money order in an amount set by Council from
time to time to cover the costs of such notice.
   (C)   On any such appeal, the final decision of the Architectural Review
Board as appealed from shall be stayed pending the outcome of the appeal before
the Council. The Council shall conduct a full and impartial public hearing on
the appeal before rendering any decision. The same standards shall be applied
by the Council as are established for the Architectural Review Board. The
Council may affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the ARB, in whole or in
part except that the filing of such petition shall not stay the decision of the
ARB, if the decision denies the right to raze or demolish an historic landmark,
or contributing structure. The decision of the Council shall be final, subject
to appeal to a Court of Record.
(1996 Code, § 176-141)
§ 153.127 APPEAL TO THE COURTS.
   Any applicant or persons within the Historic District who previously
appealed to the Town Council may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court of
the county for review by filing a petition at law setting forth the alleged
illegality of the action of the Town Council provided such petition is filed
within 30 days after the final decision of the Town Council. The filing of said
petition shall stay the decision of the Town Council pending the outcome of the
appeal to the Court, except that the filing of such petition shall not stay the
decision of the Town Council, if the decision denies the right to raze or
demolish an historic landmark, or contributing structure. The Court may reverse
or modify the decision of the Town Council, in whole or in part, if it finds
upon review that the decision is arbitrary and constitutes an abuse of
discretion, or it may affirm the decision of the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 176-142)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.140 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   In order to guide the development of compatible land use patterns in the
town, nonconforming uses which adversely affect the development of such areas
must be subject to certain limitations. The provisions of this subchapter are
designed to provide a gradual remedy for existing undesirable conditions which
result from incompatible nonconforming uses. While such uses are generally
permitted to continue, then provisions are designed to discourage further
investment in these uses.
(1996 Code, § 176-144)
§ 153.141 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to all uses and signs which are not
permitted within the districts in which they are located. Any nonconforming use
which existed lawfully at the time of enactment of this chapter, or any use
which shall become nonconforming upon enactment of this chapter and subsequent
amendments may be continued subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-145)
§ 153.142 REPAIRS, ALTERATIONS AND EXPANSION.
   (A)   Incidental alterations. Incidental alterations as defined by this
chapter may be made to a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Alterations other than incidental alterations. No alterations other
than incidental alterations shall be made to a building or other structure
occupied by a nonconforming use except when made:
      (1)   In order to comply with requirements of law regarding fire
protection, safety of structure and the like; or
      (2)   In order to conform to the applicable district regulations.
   (C)   Repair of nonconforming use.
      (1)   No structure used for a nonconforming use shall be rebuilt or
repaired after damage exceeding 75% of replacement cost unless the use and
structure conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No nonconforming structure shall be rebuilt or repaired after
damage exceeding 75% of replacement cost unless the use and structure conform
to the provisions of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-146) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.143 EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   No structure used for a nonconforming use shall be expanded except in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   The nonconforming use of land, not involving a building or structure,
or involving a use or structure which is incidental or accessory to the
principal use of the land, shall not be expanded beyond the area it occupies.
(1996 Code, § 176-147) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.144 CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, a change in use is a change in the
type of activity, however, a change in occupancy or ownership shall not, by
itself, constitute a change of use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be changed to any conforming use, and the
applicable bulk regulations and accessory off-street parking requirements shall
apply to such change of use or to alterations made in order to accommodate such
conforming use.
   (B)   Change of nonconforming use to nonconforming use. In all districts, a
nonconforming use or structure may not be changed to another nonconforming use
which would be more detrimental to the district in which it is located as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(1996 Code, § 176-148) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.145 DISCONTINUANCE.
   No nonconforming use, structure or use of land shall be re-established after
discontinuance of two years.
(1996 Code, § 176-149)
§ 153.146 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully erected and maintained
prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to remain as a
nonconforming sign. Any sign damaged to the extent that it represents a public
hazard as determined by the Building Inspector shall be removed immediately.
Nonconforming signs advertising a business which changes ownership must be
removed within 90 days of the date of change of ownership.
(1996 Code, § 176-150) Penalty, see §
153.999
CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS
§ 153.160 ISSUANCE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may hear and decide, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, requests for conditional use permits. For the
purposes of administration of this chapter, conditional uses shall be construed
as synonymous with special exceptions, as controlled by VA Code § 15.2-2296, as
amended.
(1996 Code, § 176-151)
§ 153.161 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a conditional use permit shall be made by the
property owner or his or her designated agent and filed in writing with the
Board of Zoning Appeals and shall contain information and exhibits as may be
required by the Board. Not more than 60 days after filing such applications, a
hearing shall be held on the application. Notice of the hearing shall be in
accordance with the hearing procedures of the Board.
   (B)   A fee set by Council from time to time plus an additional fee for each
registered letter sent to adjoining property owners, shall be payable to the
town and be charged to partially defray costs of review and processing for each
application for a conditional use permit, except that the fee shall be waived
for any governmental agency.
(1996 Code, § 176-152)
§ 153.162 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   General requirements are hereby established which shall apply to all
applications for conditional use permits, and specific standards listed shall
apply to the issuance of a conditional use permit as appropriate. The Board may
impose such other conditions and restrictions as may be necessary to reduce or
minimize the injurious effect of the conditional use and ensure compatibility
with surrounding property. The Board may establish expiration dates for the
expiration of any conditional use permit as a condition of approval.
(1996 Code, § 176-153)
§ 153.163 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   A conditional use permit shall be granted provided the Board finds that it:
   (A)   Is designed, located and operated so as the public health, safety and
welfare will be protected;
   (B)   Will not adversely affect other property in the area in which it is
located;
   (C)   Is within the provision of conditional uses as set forth in this
chapter; and
   (D)   Conforms to all applicable provisions of this chapter for the district
in which it is to be located and is necessary for public convenience in that
location.
(1996 Code, § 176-154)
§ 153.164 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COMMUNITY FACILITY ACTIVITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of the applicable district and the general
requirements set forth above, a conditional use permit shall be granted for the
community facility activities specified in this section when the standards
established in this section are met as part of the condition for issuance of a
permit.
   (A)   Specific conditions for community education facilities.
      (1)   The location, site and design of such facilities shall be such that
the proposed development shall be compatible with the development within the
surrounding area, thus reducing the impact on the surrounding area.
      (2)   The traffic generated by such facility shall be safely accommodated
along major streets without traversing local minor streets.
      (3)   The off-street parking requirements of §§
153.065 through
153.067 shall apply.
      (4)   Fencing, screening and landscaping shall be provided as appropriate
to protect the surrounding area.
      (5)   All public utilities and sewage disposal shall be available to the
site.
      (6)   The site and architectural plans for such facilities shall first be
approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council taking into account the
above conditions as well as any other pertinent factors related to the use and
operation of the facility.
   (B)   Specific conditions for libraries.
      (1)   All bulk regulations of the zoning district shall apply.
      (2)   The off-street parking requirements of §§
153.065 and
153.066 of this chapter shall apply.
      (3)   Fencing, screening and landscaping shall be provided as appropriate
to protect the surrounding area.
      (4)   The location and operation of such facility shall be in keeping
with the character of the surrounding area and shall not have an adverse effect
on properties within the surrounding area.
      (5)   The site and architectural plans shall first be approved by the
Planning Commission and Town Council taking into account the above conditions.
   (C)   Specific conditions for public park or playground facilities.
      (1)   The off-street parking requirements of §§
153.065 and
153.066 shall apply.
      (2)   Fencing, screening and landscaping shall be provided as appropriate
to protect the surrounding area.
      (3)   The location and operation of this activity shall be in keeping
with the character of the surrounding area and shall not have an adverse effect
on properties within the surrounding area.
      (4)   The site and architectural plans shall first be approved by the
Planning Commission and Town Council taking into account the above conditions.
   (D)   Specific conditions for utility facilities.
      (1)   All of the bulk regulations of the Zoning District shall apply.
      (2)   The location of the facility shall not materially increase traffic
on surrounding streets.
      (3)   The location of the facility shall not have an adverse effect on
surrounding properties.
      (4)   There shall be provided along the entire site boundaries fencing,
screening and landscaping, as appropriate to protect the surrounding area.
      (5)   The site and architectural plans shall first be approved by the
Planning Commission and Town Council taking into account the above conditions.
(1996 Code, § 176-155)
§ 153.165 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of the applicable district and the
general requirements set forth above, a conditional use permit shall be granted
for the residential activity specified in division (B) below when the standards
established in that section are met as part of the condition for issuance of a
permit.
   (B)   Specific conditions for dwelling unit in CC District and GC District:
      (1)   The residential use shall be permitted only above the ground floor
of a building occupied by a commercial use; and
      (2)   The off-street parking requirements of §
153.066(A) shall apply.
(1996 Code, § 176-156)
§ 153.166 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   In addition to the requirements of the applicable district and the general
requirements set forth above, a conditional use permit shall be granted for the
commercial activities specified in divisions (A) and (B) below when the
standards established in those sections are met as part of the condition for
issuance of a permit.
   (A)   Specific conditions for convenience sales and service in I District.
This use shall be considered as incidental to serve occupants and patrons of
the permitted use only. Such activities shall be conducted in spaces which are
designed as an integral part of the principal use.
   (B)   Special conditions for food service in I District. This use shall be
considered as incidental to serve occupants and patrons of the permitted use
only. Such activities shall be conducted in spaces which are designed as an
integral part of the principal use.
(1996 Code, § 176-157)
§ 153.167 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person or any agency of the town government may appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county to review the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals as provided under VA Code § 15.2-2314, as amended.
   (B)   The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision brought up for review.
(1996 Code, § 176-158)
ZONING VARIANCE PROVISIONS
§ 153.180 ISSUANCE OF ZONING VARIANCE.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may hear and decide, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, requests for zoning variances.
(1996 Code, § 176-159)
§ 153.181 APPLICATION FOR ZONING VARIANCE.
   (A)   The application for a zoning variance may be made by any property
owner, tenant, government official, department, board or bureau.
   (B)   The application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with rules adopted by the Board.
   (C)   The application and accompanying maps, plans or other information
shall be transmitted promptly to the searching of the Board.
   (D)   Not more than 60 days after filing such application, a hearing shall
be held on the application.
   (E)   Notice of the hearing shall be in accordance with the hearing
procedures of the Board.
   (F)   A fee set by Council from time to time plus an additional fee for each
registered letter sent to adjoining property owners, payable to the town shall
be charged to partially defray the cost of review and processing for each
application for a variance, except that the fee shall be waived for any
governmental agency.
(1996 Code, § 176-160)
§ 153.182 NOTICE TO AFFECTED PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be the general rule of the Board that reasonable efforts
shall be made to contact and notify interested parties who, in the opinion of
the Board, may be affected by any matter brought before the Board.
   (B)   In all cases all owners of record of adjoining property, including
those separated by a public way from the premises in question shall be
notified.
   (C)   The notification required to meet this provision shall be accomplished
by direct mail addressed to the respective owner at the address given in the
latest assessment role.
(1996 Code, § 176-161)
§ 153.183 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board shall not grant a variance unless it makes findings based
upon evidence presented to it as follows:
      (1)   The property owner acquired the property in good faith, and that by
reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, size or shape, or exceptional
topographic conditions or other extraordinary conditions of the property, or of
the use or development of property immediately adjacent to it, the strict
application of the terms of this chapter would effectively prohibit or
unreasonably restrict the use of the property;
      (2)   The Board is satisfied, upon the evidence heard by it, that the
granting of such variance will alleviate a demonstrable hardship approaching
confiscation, as distinguished from a special privilege or convenience sought
by the applicant;
      (3)   The strict application of the ordinance would produce undue
hardship;
      (4)   The hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
      (5)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and that the character of the district will not
be changed by the granting of the variance;
      (6)   The condition or situation of the property concerned or the
intended use of the property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to
make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted as an amendment to the ordinance;
      (7)   The variance shall be in harmony with the intended spirit and
purpose of this chapter;
      (8)   The variance will not authorize uses in a zoning district other
than those permitted by this chapter;
      (9)   Financial concerns only shall not be considered as a basis for
granting a variance; and
      (10)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district.
   (B)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in
the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of
a variance.
(1996 Code, § 176-162)
§ 153.184 PROHIBITION OF USE VARIANCES.
   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Appeals grant a variance to
allow a use not permitted under the terms of this chapter in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this chapter in said district.
(1996 Code, § 176-163)
§ 153.185 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS BY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the
premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the
provisions set out in §
153.183 to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of such variance upon
surrounding property and to better carry out the general intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board may establish expiration dates as a condition or as a part
of the variance. The Board may require a guarantee or bond to insure that the
conditions imposed are being and will continue to be complied with.
(1996 Code, § 176-164)
§ 153.186 REVERSAL OF DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   In exercising its powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may, so long as such
action is in conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the administrative official, and to that end shall have the
powers of the official from whom the appeal is taken.
(1996 Code, § 176-165)
§ 153.187 VARIANCE APPEALS.
   Any person including any agency of the town government aggrieved by a
decision of the Board on a variance may appeal any decision of the Board to the
Circuit Court of the county as provided for in VA Code § 15.2-2314, as amended.
(1996 Code, § 176-166)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.200 CREATION, MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established which may be
referred to in this chapter as the “Board” or “Board of Zoning Appeals.”
   (B)   The Board shall have jurisdiction within the corporate limits of the
town, and it shall consist of five residents of the town, appointed by the
Circuit Court of the county.
   (C)   Members may be reappointed to succeed themselves.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall hold no other public office in the town
except that one may be a member of the Planning Commission.
(1996 Code, § 176-167)
§ 153.201 TERMS OF OFFICE OF BOARD MEMBERS; VACANCIES; REMOVALS.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall serve for a five-year term, except that
original appointments shall be made for such terms that the term of one member
shall expire each year.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Board shall notify the court at least 30 days in
advance of the expiration of any term of office, and shall also notify the
court promptly if any vacancy occurs.
   (C)   Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the unexpired potion
of the term.
   (D)   A member whose term expires shall continue to serve until his or her
successor is appointed and qualifies.
   (E)   Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance or
nonfeasance in office, or for other just cause, by the court which appointed
him or her, after a hearing held after at least 15 days notice.
(1996 Code, § 176-168)
§ 153.202 STAFF OF BOARD; COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the Town Council, the Board
may employ or contract for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel, consultants and
other technical and clerical services.
   (B)   Members of the Board may receive such compensation as may be
authorized by the Town Council.
(1996 Code, § 176-169)
§ 153.203 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board is hereby vested with the powers to:
   (A)   Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative officer in carrying out the
administration or enforcement of the ordinance;
   (B)   Hear and act upon application for variances in accordance with §
153.181 to alleviate hardships by virtue of the inability of the landlord to
comply strictly with the provisions of this chapter by reason of unique shape,
topography or physical features of the lot;
   (C)   Hear and decide appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator;
   (D)   Hear and decide applications for interpretation of the district map
where there is any uncertainty as to the location of a district boundary;
   (E)   Hear and decide applications for conditional use permits and special
exceptions in the manner and subject to the standards set out in §§
153.182 through
153.187;
   (F)   Hear and decide all matters referred to it on which it is required to
act under this chapter;
   (G)   Within its budget appropriation and other funds at its disposal, enter
into contracts for such services as it may require; and
   (H)   Revoke a conditional use or special exception if the Board determines
that there has not been compliance with the terms or conditions of the permit.
No conditional use or special exception may be revoked except after notice and
hearing as provided by VA Code § 15.2-2204.
(1996 Code, § 176-170)
§ 153.204 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; TERMS.
   The Board shall elect from its members its own Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary, who shall serve for one year and may upon election serve
succeeding terms.
(1996 Code, § 176-171)
§ 153.205 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after
such notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in
the certificate such stay would cause imminent threat to life or property.
   (B)   In such instance the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record
on application and on notice to the Zoning Administrator and for good cause
shown.
(1996 Code, § 176-172)
§ 153.206 RULES AND PROCEEDING OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall also adopt rules for the conduct of its meetings.
   (B)   Such rules shall, at the minimum, require the following.
      (1)   The presence of a majority of all members of the Board shall
constitute a quorum.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Board on any case until after a
public hearing and notice thereof. Notice of such hearing shall be published
once a week for two successive weeks in a local newspaper of general
circulation, not less than six days nor more than 21 days after the second
advertisement appears. A written notice of the hearing of the appeal shall be
sent by mail to the applicant and all directly affected property owners at
least ten days before the hearing of the appeal. The notice to the appellant
shall be sent by registered mail.
      (3)   Appeals to the Board shall be taken within 30 days after the
decision appealed from by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the
Board, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds of the appeal. The Zoning
Administrator shall then transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action was taken.
      (4)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the application
or appeal, give public notice thereof as well as notify interested parties and
decide the same within 60 days.
      (5)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify an
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from. The concurring
vote of three members shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of an administrative officer or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under the
ordinance or to effect any variance from the ordinance.
      (6)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and other official
actions which shall be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public
records. The Chairperson of the Board, or in his or her absence, the Vice
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (7)   The Board may call upon any other office or agency of the town for
information in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such
other agencies to render the information to the Board as may be reasonably
required.
      (8)   Any office, agency or department of the town or other aggrieved
party may appeal any decision of the Board to the Circuit Court of the county
as provided for in VA Code § 15.2-2314, as amended.
      (9)   In decisions on variance or conditional use, the Board shall
indicate the specific section of this chapter under which the variance or
conditional use is being considered, and shall state its findings beyond such
generalities as “in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare.”
The Board shall state clearly the specific conditions imposed in granting the
variance ordinance or conditional use permit. For variance cases pertaining to
hardship, the Board shall specifically identify the hardship warranting such
action by the Board.
      (10)   At the public hearing of the case before the Board, the appellant
shall appear in his or her own behalf or be represented by counsel or agent.
The appellant’s side of the case shall be heard first and those in objection
shall follow. To maintain orderly procedure, each side shall proceed without
interruption from the other.
      (11)   The Town Planning Commission shall be permitted to submit an
advisory opinion on any matter before the Board, and such opinion shall be made
part of the record of the public hearing.
(1996 Code, § 176-173)
§ 153.207 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of office of Zoning Administrator. 
      (1)   The office of Zoning Administrator is hereby established to
administer and enforce this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall be designated by the Town Council.
      (3)   He or she may be provided with the assistance of such other persons
as the Town Council may direct.
(1996 Code, § 176-174)
   (B)   Duties of Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible to the administration and enforcement of this chapter. These duties
include the following:
      (1)   Upon finding that any provision of this chapter is being violated,
the Zoning Administrator shall notify in writing the person responsible for
such violation and order the necessary action to correct it;
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal use
of land, buildings or structures, removal of illegal buildings or structures or
illegal additions, alterations or structural changes or discontinuance of any
illegal work being done;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the issuance of
zoning and certificate of occupancy permits. The Zoning Administrator shall
review each application for a zoning permit and may require any other
information which he or she may deem necessary for the consideration of the
application; and
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall take any other action authorized by
this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of its
provisions.
(1996 Code, § 176-175)
   (C)   Authority of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
have all necessary authority on behalf of the Town Council to administer and
enforce this chapter. This includes ordering in writing the remedying of any
condition found in violation of this chapter, and bringing legal action to
ensure compliance with this chapter, including injunction, abatement or other
appropriate action or proceeding.
(1996 Code, § 176-176)
ZONING PERMITS; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND USE PERMITS
§ 153.220 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered without a zoning permit issued by the Office of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by three
copies of a plan drawn to scale showing the shape and dimensions of the plot to
be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the plot of the buildings,
structures and accessory buildings then existing, and the lines within which
the proposed building or structure shall be erected or altered, the existing
and intended use of each building or part of a building, and the number of
families or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate. Any
other information that the Administrator may deem necessary for consideration
of the application may be required. If the proposed building or use is found to
conform to the provisions of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue a
zoning permit to the applicant.
(1996 Code, § 176-177)
§ 153.221 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Land may be used or occupied, and buildings structurally altered or
erected may be used or changed in use only after a certificate of occupancy and
use has been issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   This permit shall state that the building or the proposed use, or the
use of the land, complies with the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of
occupancy and use either for the whole or a part of a building shall be applied
for simultaneously with the application for a zoning permit.
   (C)   The certificate shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
structural alteration of such building or part has conformed to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (1)   No certificate of occupancy and use shall be issued for any
building, structure or part thereof, or for any use of land, which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No certificate of occupancy and use shall be issued until
construction has been completed and the premises inspected and certified by the
office of the Zoning Administrator to be in conformity with the plans and
specifications upon which the zoning permit was based
(1996 Code, § 176-178)
REMEDIES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.235 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
   (B)   The complaint shall state fully the causes and basis of such complaint
and shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall properly record the complaint,
immediately investigate and take such action as provided for in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-179)
§ 153.236 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided for by law. Each day
such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any budding, structure or premises and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits, participates
in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a
separate offense and shall be punished as provided for by law.
(1996 Code, § 176-180)
§ 153.237 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In case any building or other structure is proposed to be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, extended or converted, or any building or
other structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator or other appropriate authority of the town
government or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be
especially damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies,
institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
extension, conversion or use, to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent
the occupancy of such building or other structure or land.
   (B)   Where a violation of these regulations exists with respect to a
building or other structure or land, the Zoning Administrator may, in addition
to other remedies, notify all public utilities and municipal service
departments of such violation and request that service be withheld until such
time as the building or other structure or land is no longer in violation of
these regulations, and each such utility or department shall comply with such
request.
(1996 Code, § 176-181)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.250 AUTHORITY TO AMEND.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, by ordinance amend, supplement or
change the regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property.
Amendments may be initiated whenever the public necessity, convenience, general
welfare or good zoning practice require it.
(1996 Code, § 176-182)
§ 153.251 INITIATION OF AMENDMENT
   Amendments may be initiated by resolution of the Town Council, or by motion
of the Town Planning Commission or by petition of any property owner addressed
to the governing body.
(1996 Code, § 176-183)
§ 153.252 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT; FEE.
   An application by an individual for an amendment shall be accompanied by a
fee set by Council from time to time plus an additional fee for each registered
letter sent to adjoining property owners, payable to the town, and shall also
be accompanied by maps, drawings and data necessary to demonstrate that the
proposed amendment is in general conformance with the general plan of the area
and that public necessity, convenience and general welfare require the adoption
of the proposed amendment. An accurate legal description and scale drawing of
the land and existing buildings shall be submitted with the application.
(1996 Code, § 176-184)
§ 153.253 REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendations to the Town
Council on all proposed amendments to this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 176-185)
§ 153.254 GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT.
   The Planning Commission, in its review and recommendation, and the Town
Council, in its deliberations, shall make specific findings with regard to the
following grounds for an amendment and shall note the same in the official
record as follows:
   (A)   The amendment is in agreement with the general plan for the area;
   (B)   It has been determined that the legal purposes for which zoning exists
are not contravened;
   (C)   It has been determined that there will not be adverse effect upon
adjoining property owners unless such adverse effect can be justified by the
overwhelming public welfare; and
   (D)   It has been determined that no property owner or small group of
property owners will benefit materially from the change to the detriment of the
general public.
(1996 Code, § 176-186)
§ 153.255 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held on all proposed amendments to this
chapter.
   (B)   Notice of such hearing shall be published once a week for two
successive weeks in a local newspaper of general circulation, not less than six
days nor more than 21 days after the second advertisement appears.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator will post, at the time of the first newspaper
advertisement, an appropriate sign on all lots upon which the application for
zoning changes have been made.
   (D)   At least ten days prior all affected property owners and all adjoining
property owners, including those separated by a public way, shall be notified
by mail of the proposed amendment, and the time, date and place of the public
hearing.
(1996 Code, § 176-187)
§ 153.256 NOTICE OF ENACTMENT
   Upon enactment of an amendment to this chapter, a notice of such shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within seven days following the
enactment, announcing the new zoning classification of property affected. The
change shall become effective upon the date of the announcement.
(1996 Code, § 176-188)
§ 153.257 AMENDMENTS AFFECTING ZONING MAP.
   Upon enactment of an amendment to the zoning map which is part of this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall cause such amendment to be placed upon
the zoning map noting thereon the ordinance number and effective date of such
amendatory ordinance.
(1996 Code, § 176-189)
§ 153.258 EFFECT OF DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   Whenever an application for an amendment to the text of this chapter or for
a change in the zoning classification of any property is denied, the
application for that amendment shall not be eligible for reconsideration for
one year following such denial, except in the following cases:
   (A)   Upon initiation by the Planning Commission or Town Council;
   (B)   When the new application, although involving all or a portion of the
same property, is for a different zoning district than that for which the
original application was made; and
   (C)   When the previous application was denied for the reason that the
proposed zoning would not conform to the general plan, and the general plan has
subsequently been amended in a manner which will allow the proposed zoning.
(1996 Code, § 176-190)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this chapter or of
any regulation issued under the authority of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than a fee set by Council from time to time or be
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both. All prosecutions for violations
of this chapter or of any regulations issued under the authority of this
chapter shall be brought in the name of the town in the court of the county by
the Corporation Counsel of the town or any of his or her assistants.
   (B)   Any person who demolishes, alters or constructs a building or
structure in violation of this chapter shall be required to restore the
building or structure and its site to the appearance prior to the violation.
Any action to enforce this section shall be brought by the Corporation Counsel
of the town. This civil remedy shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any
criminal prosecution and penalty.
(1996 Code, § 176-143)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-29-2006   Fiber optics franchise granted to Wiredog Communications
                     Management Company, LLC
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Code of Virginia
References to 1996 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CODE OF VIRGINIA
VA Code Reference Code Section
VA Code Reference           Code Section
1-220                       10.16
10.1-1127.1                 94.01
10.1-1411                   50.20
10.1-2200 et seq.           153.115
14.1-133.2                  30.01
15.2-22.9                   151.17
15.2-100 et seq.            Charter, §
                            2.2
15.2-933                    50.25
15.2-906                    150.05
15.2-1429                   10.99
15.2-1432                   10.99
                            151.18,
15.2-2204                   153.126,
                            153.203
15.2-2209                   151.17
15.2-2210 et seq            153.004
15.2-2200 et seq.           153.002
15.2-2240 et seq.           151.01
15.2-2296                   153.160
                            153.167,
15.2-2314                   153.187,
                            153.206
15.2-4900 et seq.           31.55
15.2-4904                   31.57
16.1-106                    110.01
16.1-278 et seq.            70.01
16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9 70.01
18.2-11                     10.99
27-34.4                     150.07
27-94 et seq.               92.01
36-105                      150.03
36-106                      150.06
40.1-103                    31.04
46.1-1215                   70.18
46.2                        70.01
46.2-100                    70.06
46.2-731                    70.07
46.2-890                    92.04
46.2-920                    70.03
46.2-1219                   70.17
46.2-1215                   70.18
46.2-1215 et seq.           70.18
46.2-1313                   70.01
58.1-15                     32.044
58.1-1201                   32.040
58.1-1205                   32.040
58.1-1207                   32.042
58.1-1211                   32.042
58.1-1212                   32.042
58.1-3210                   32.064
58.1-3819                   32.090
58.1-3833                   32.115
58.1-3840                   32.090,
                            32.115
58.1-3906                   32.999
58.1-3916                   32.999
58.1-3940 et seq.           150.05
62.1-45a                    51.31
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code Reference 2020 Code Section
1996 Code Reference 2020 Code Section
5-1                 30.15
5-2                 30.16
5-3                 30.17
5-4                 30.18
5-5                 30.19
5-6                 30.20
5-7                 30.21
5-8                 30.22
5-9                 30.23
5-10                30.24
5-11                30.04
5-12                30.35
5-13                30.36
5-14                30.37
5-15                30.38
5-16                30.39
5-17                30.40
5-18                30.41
5-19                30.42
14-1                30.01
14-2                30.02
19-1                30.03
26-1                31.01
26-2                31.02
26-3                31.03
26-4                31.04
26-5                31.04
30-1                31.55
30-2                31.56
30-3                31.57
30-4                31.58
49-1                31.35
49-2                31.36
49-3                31.37
49-4                31.38
49-5                31.39
49-6                31.40
53-1                31.20
53-2                31.21
53-3                31.22
63-3                110.02
63-4                110.02
63-5                110.03
63-6                110.03
67-1                111.01
67-2                111.02
67-3                111.03
67-5                111.15
67-6                111.16
67-7                111.17
67-8                111.18
67-9                111.19
67-10               111.20
67-11               111.21
67-12               111.22
67-13               111.23
67-14               111.24
67-15               111.25
67-17               111.40
67-18               111.41
67-19               111.42
67-20               111.43
67-21               111.44
67-22               111.45
67-23               111.46
67-24               111.47
67-25               111.48
71-1                90.01
71-2                90.02
71-3                90.03
71-4                90.04
71-5                90.05
71-6                90.06
71-7                90.07
71-8                90.08
71-9                90.09
71-10               90.10
71-12               90.25
71-13               90.26
71-14               90.27
79-1                150.01
79-2                150.02
79-3                150.03
79-4                150.04
79-5                150.05
79-6                150.06
79-7                150.07
83-Att-1            150.29
83-1                150.20
83-2                150.21
83-3                150.22
83-4                150.23
83-5                150.24
83-6                150.25
83-7                150.26
83-8                150.27
83-9                150.28
83-10               150.29
88-1                132.01
88-2                132.02
88-3                132.03
96-1                92.01
96-2                92.02
96-3                92.03
96-4                92.04
96-5                92.05
96-6                92.06
96-7                92.07
96-8                92.08
96-9                92.09
96-10               92.10
96-11               92.25
96-12               92.26
96-13               92.27
96-14               92.28
96-15               92.29
109-1               131.01
109-2               131.02
109-3               131.03
109-4               131.04
109-6               131.05
113-1               91.01
113-2               91.02
113-3               91.03
113-4               91.04
113-5               91.05
113-6               91.06
113-7               91.07
113-8               91.08
113-9               91.09
118-1               130.001
118-1.1             130.002
118-2               130.003
118-3               130.004
118-4               130.005
118-5               130.006
118-6               130.020
118-7               130.021
118-8               130.022
118-9               130.023
118-10              130.035
118-11              130.036
118-12              130.037
118-13              130.038
118-15              130.039
118-16              130.040
118-17              130.055
118-18              130.056
118-19              130.070
118-20              130.071
118-21              130.072
118-22              130.073
118-24              130.086
118-25              130.087
118-26              130.088
118-27              130.089
118-28              130.090
118-29              130.091
118-30              130.092
118-31              130.093
128-1               53.001
128-2               53.002
128-3               53.003
128-4               53.004
128-5               53.005
128-6               53.006
128-8               53.020
128-9               53.021
128-10              53.022
128-11              53.023
128-12              53.035
128-13              53.036
128-14              53.037
128-15              53.038
128-16              53.039
128-17              53.040
128-18              53.041
128-19              53.055
128-20              53.056
128-21              53.057
128-22              53.058
128-23              53.059
128-24              53.060
128-25              53.061
128-26              53.062
128-27              53.063
128-28              53.064
128-29              53.065
128-30              53.066
128-31              53.080
128-32              53.081
128-33              53.082
128-34              53.083
128-35              53.084
128-36              53.085
128-37              53.086
128-38              53.087
128-39              53.088
128-40              53.089
128-41              53.100
128-42              53.101
128-43              53.102
128-44              53.103
128-45              53.104
128-46              53.105
128-47              53.106
128-48              53.107
128-49              53.108
128-50              53.120
128-51              53.121
128-52              53.122
128-53              53.123
135-1               50.01
135-2               50.02
135-3               50.03
135-4               50.04
135-5               50.05
135-7               50.20
135-8               50.21
135-9               50.24
135-10              50.25
135-11              50.26
139-1               93.01
139-2               93.02
139-3               93.03
139-4               93.15
139-5               93.16
143-1               151.01
143-2               151.02
143-3               151.03
143-4               151.04
143-5               151.05
143-6               151.06
143-7               151.07
143-8               151.08
143-9               151.09
143-10              151.10
143-11              151.11
143-12              151.12
143-13              151.13
143-14              151.14
143-15              151.15
143-16              151.16
143-17              151.17
143-18              151.18
143-19              151.19
148-Att-A           Chapter 32, App. A
148-1               32.001
148-2               32.002
148-3               32.003
148-4               32.004
148-5               32.005
148-6               32.020
148-7               32.021
148-8               32.022
148-9               32.023
148-10              32.024
148-11              32.025
148-12              32.026
148-13              32.027
148-14              32.028
148-15              32.999
148-16              32.029
148-17              32.040
148-18              32.041
148-19              32.042
148-20              32.043
148-21              32.044
148-22              32.055
148-23              32.056
148-24              32.057
148-25              32.058
148-26              32.059
148-27              32.060
148-28              32.061
148-29              32.062
148-30              32.999
148-31              32.063
148-32              32.064
148-33              32.075
148-34              32.999
148-35              32.076
148-36              32.077
148-37              32.078
148-38              32.090
148-39              32.091
148-40              32.092
148-41              32.093
148-42              32.094
148-43              32.095
148-44              32.096
148-45              32.097
148-46              32.098
148-47              32.099
148-48              32.100
148-49              32.101
148-50              32.999
148-51              32.102
148-52              32.103
148-53              32.115
148-54              32.116
148-55              32.117
148-56              32.118
148-57              32.119
148-58              32.120
148-59              32.121
148-60              32.122
148-61              32.123
148-62              32.124
148-63              32.125
148-64              32.126
148-65              32.999
148-66              32.127
148-67              32.128
155-1               94.01
155-2               94.99
159-1               70.01
159-2               70.02
159-3               70.03
159-4               70.04
159-5               70.05
159-6               70.06
159-7               70.07
159-8               70.08
159-9               70.09
159-10              Ch. 73, Sch. I
159-11              70.10
159-12              70.11
159-13              70.12
159-14              70.13
159-15              70.14
159-16              70.14
159-17              70.99
159-18              70.16
159-19              Ch. 72, Sch. I
159-20              Ch. 72, Sch. II
159-21              70.17
159-22              70.99
159-22              70.18
159-23              70.19
163-1               71.01
163-2               71.02
163-3               71.03
163-4               71.04
163-5               71.05
163-6               71.99
163-7               71.06
163-8               71.07
168-1               52.001
168-2               52.002
168-3               52.003
168-4               52.004
168-5               52.015
168-6               52.016
168-7               52.017
168-8               52.018
168-9               52.019
168-10              52.020
168-11              52.035
168-12              52.036
168-13              52.037
168-14              52.038
168-15              52.039
168-16              52.050
168-17              52.051
168-18              52.052
168-19              52.053
168-20              52.054
168-21              52.055
168-22              52.056
168-23              52.057
168-24              52.070
168-25              52.071
168-26              52.072
168-27              52.073
168-28              52.074
168-29              52.075
168-30              52.076
168-31              52.077
168-32              52.090
168-33              52.091
168-34              52.092
168-35              52.093
168-36              52.094
168-37              52.095
168-38              52.096
168-39              52.097
168-40              52.098
168-41              52.099
168-42              52.100
168-43              52.101
168-44              52.102
168-45              52.103
168-46              52.115
168-47              52.115
168-48              52.116
168-49              52.117
168-50              52.130
168-51              52.131
168-52              52.132
168-53              52.133
168-54              52.134
168-55              52.135
168-56              52.136
168-57              52.137
168-58              52.150
168-59              52.999
168-60              52.151
168-61              52.152
168-62              52.165
168-63              52.166
168-64              52.167
168-65              52.168
168-66              52.180
168-67              52.181
168-68              52.182
168-69              52.118
168-70              52.119
172-1               51.01
172-2               51.02
172-3               51.03
172-4               51.04
172-5               51.05
172-6               51.06
172-7               51.07
172-8               51.08
172-9               51.09
172-11              51.11
172-12              51.12
172-13              51.13
172-14              51.14
172-15              51.15
172-17              51.30
172-18              51.31
172-19              51.32
172-20              51.33
172-21              51.34
172-23              51.45
172-24              51.46
172-25              51.47
172-26              51.48
172-27              51.49
172-28              51.99
172-29              51.50
176-1               153.001
176-2               153.002
176-3               153.003
176-4               153.004
176-5               153.005
176-6               153.006
176-7               153.007
176-8               153.020
176-9               153.021
176-10              153.022
176-11              153.023
176-12              153.024
176-13              153.025
176-14              153.026
176-15              153.027
176-16              153.040
176-17              153.041
176-18              153.042
176-19              153.043
176-20              153.043
176-21              153.043
176-22              153.043
176-23              153.043
176-24              153.043
176-25              153.044
176-26              153.044
176-27              153.044
176-28              153.044
176-29              153.044
176-30              153.045
176-31              153.045
176-32              153.045
176-33              153.045
176-34              153.045
176-35              153.045
176-36              153.046
176-37              153.046
176-38              153.046
176-39              153.046
176-40              153.046
176-41              153.046
176-42              153.047
176-43              153.047
176-44              153.047
176-45              153.047
176-46              153.047
176-47              153.047
176-48              153.047
176-49              153.047
176-50              153.047
176-51              153.065
176-52              153.065
176-53              153.065
176-54              153.048
176-55              153.048
176-56              153.048
176-57              153.048
176-58              153.048
176-59              153.048
176-60              153.048
176-61              153.048
176-62              153.049
176-63              153.049
176-64              153.049
176-65              153.049
176-66              153.049
176-67              153.049
176-68              153.049
176-69              153.050
176-70              153.050
176-71              153.050
176-72              153.050
176-73              153.050
176-74              153.050
176-75              153.050
176-76              153.066
176-77              153.066
176-78              153.066
176-79              153.066
176-80              153.066
176-81              153.066
176-82              153.066
176-83              153.080
176-84              153.080
176-85              153.080
176-86              153.080
176-87              153.080
176-88              153.080
176-89              153.051
176-90              153.051
176-91              153.051
176-92              153.051
176-93              153.051
176-94              153.051
176-95              153.051
176-96              153.051
176-97              153.067
176-98              153.067
176-99              153.067
176-100             153.067
176-101             153.067
176-102             153.067
176-103             153.067
176-104             153.081
176-105             153.081
176-106             153.081
176-107             153.081
176-108             153.081
176-109             153.081
176-110             152.01
176-111             152.02
176-112             152.03
176-113             152.04
176-115             152.05
176-116             152.06
176-117             152.07
176-118             152.08
176-119             152.09
176-120             152.25
176-120.1           152.26
176-120.2           152.27
176-120.3           152.28
176-120.4           152.29
176-120.5           152.30
176-120.6           152.31
176-121             152.10
176-122             152.11
176-123             153.095
176-124             153.096
176-125             153.097
176-126             153.098
176-127             153.099
176-128             153.100
176-129             153.101
176-130             153.115
176-131             153.116
176-132             153.117
176-133             153.118
176-134             153.119
176-135             153.120
176-136             153.121
176-137             153.122
176-138             153.123
176-139             153.124
176-140             153.125
176-141             153.126
176-142             153.127
176-143             152.99
176-143             153.999
176-144             153.140
176-145             153.141
176-146             153.142
176-147             153.143
176-148             153.144
176-149             153.145
176-150             153.146
176-151             153.160
176-152             153.161
176-153             153.162
176-154             153.163
176-155             153.164
176-156             153.165
176-157             153.166
176-158             153.167
176-159             153.180
176-160             153.181
176-161             153.182
176-162             153.183
176-163             153.184
176-164             153.185
176-165             153.186
176-166             153.187
176-167             153.200
176-168             153.201
176-169             153.202
176-170             153.203
176-171             153.204
176-172             153.205
176-173             153.206
176-174             153.207
176-175             153.207
176-176             153.207
176-177             153.220
176-178             153.221
176-179             153.235
176-180             153.236
176-181             153.237
176-182             153.250
176-183             153.251
176-184             153.252
176-185             153.253
176-186             153.254
176-187             153.255
176-188             153.256
176-189             153.257
176-190             153.258
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         50.20 through
                     50.23
                     70.09 through
-        7-21-1980   70.14,
                     70.99
-        10-14-1980  130.035,
                     130.056
-        11-13-1984  70.07
-        1-14-1986   90.25 through
                     90.27
                     70.07 through
-        3-12-1991   70.14,
                     70.99
-        6-14-1994   70.19
-        12-13-1994  70.18,
                     70.99
-        1-12-1999   70.99
-        7-5-2000    70.16
-        8-13-2002   32.090 through
                     32.103
-        9-17-2002   32.115 through
                     32.128
-        7-1-2004    53.122
-        8-10-2004   32.001
-        4-11-2006   53.123
-        6-29-2006   TSO, Table I
-        5-16-2007   51.12
-        5-13-2008   150.26
                     152.01 through
                     152.09,
-        8-12-2008   152.25 through
                     152.30,
                     152.99
26-3A    12-16-2008  31.05
-        10-13-2009  50.06
-        3-9-2010    51.45 through
                     51.50
-        6-8-2010    153.043
-        1-12-2012   110.01
-        1-14-2014   51.16
-        1-14-2014   153.048,
                     153.066
-        5-12-2015   32.999
-        12-4-2018   70.01
-        12-12-2018  51.17
-        1-8-2019    30.15
-        3-10-2020   70.16
                     Charter, §§
-        12-12-2021  3.1,
                     3.4
-        10-10-2023  153.049
                     51.01,
                     51.06,
                     51.10,
-        4-9-2024    51.14,
                     51.99,
                     91.03,
                     150.24
                    
 
