LEE COUNTY, VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 21-00, passed 7-20-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   How code designated and cited
   
1-2   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-3   Catchlines of sections
   
1-4   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
1-5   Miscellaneous ordinances not affected by code
   
1-6   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights and the like
   
1-7   Supplementation of code
   
1-8   Copies of code and supplements to be available for public inspection
   
1-9   Severability of parts of code
   
1-10   Classification of and penalties for violations; continuing violations
   
1-11   Special fee in criminal and traffic cases to support courthouse
construction, renovation or maintenance
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the “Code of the County of Lee, Virginia,”
and may be so cited. Such code may also be cited as the “Lee County Code.”
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to codify and recodify its ordinances, see VA Code §
15.1-37.3
§ 1-2 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Rules of construction. The rules of construction given in VA Code §§
Title 1, Chapter 2.1, shall govern, so far as applicable, the construction of
all words not defined in this section or elsewhere in this code.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Lee County.
      CODE. The Code of the County of Lee, Virginia, as designated in §
1-1.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be
counted.
      COUNTY. The County of Lee in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
      GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to
males.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the State
Board of Health for the county or his or her authorized representative.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to
a majority of such officers or other persons.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things, as well as to one person and thing; and
a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one person
or thing, as well as to several persons or things.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
      OFFICERS, BOARDS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to a particular
officer, department, board, commission or other agency, such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words “of the County of Lee, Virginia.” A
reference to a specific officer shall include that officer’s duly authorized
deputies, representatives and agents, subject, however, to the provisions of VA
Code Title 15.2, Chapters 15 and 16.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever particular hours are referred to, the
time applicable shall be official standard time or daylight savings time,
whichever may be in current use in the county.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate, as well as to individuals.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
      STATE; COMMONWEALTH. Construed as if the words “of Virginia” followed.
      STATE CODE. The Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.
      STREET; HIGHWAY; ROAD. Public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all
other public thoroughfares in the county, and shall mean the entire width
thereof between abutting property lines. Such words shall be construed to
include a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Board of
Supervisors.
      SWEAR; SWORN. Equivalent to the word “affirm” or “affirmed” in all cases
in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as
well as the past and present.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Include any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year. Alone, it shall be equivalent to the expression
“year of our Lord.”
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definitions and rules of construction applicable to state law, see
VA Code Title I, Chapter 2.1
§ 1-3 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in bold face
type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section
and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions as to sections of state code, see VA Code § 1-217
§ 1-4 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the ordinances included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 1-5 MISCELLANEOUS ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect:
      (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or
for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any
evidence of the county’s indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by
the county;
      (2)   Any ordinance granting any franchise or right;
      (3)   Any ordinance appropriating funds, making assessments or levying an
annual tax or relating to an annual budget;
      (4)   Any ordinance relating to salaries, compensation or bonds of county
employees and officials or members of county boards or commissions;
      (5)   Any ordinance authorizing, providing for or otherwise relating to
any public improvement;
      (6)   The zoning ordinance adopted January 21, 2014, or any amendment
thereto or any ordinance zoning or rezoning specific property;
      (7)   The subdivision ordinance set out in
Appendix B of this code, or any amendment thereto;
      (8)   Any ordinance adopted for purposes which have been consummated; or
      (9)   Any ordinance which is temporary, although general in effect, or
special, although permanent in effect.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 1-6 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing, or any prosecution, suit or
proceeding pending or any judgment rendered, on or before the effective date of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 1-7 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of
Supervisors. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been replaced shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subsections;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subsections of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subsections to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subsection numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections to” (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of
the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated
into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to supplement code, see VA Code Title 15.2, Subtitle 2
§ 1-8 COPIES OF CODE AND SUPPLEMENTS TO BE AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   At least three copies of this code and every supplement thereto shall be
kept in the office of the County Administrator and shall there be available for
public inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code Title 15.2, Subtitle 2
§ 1-9 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   If any part, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is
for any reason declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
§ 1-10 CLASSIFICATION OF AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the county or any rule
or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the county, under
authority duly vested in such officer or agency, it is provided that a
violation of any provision thereof shall constitute a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4
misdemeanor, such violation shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 misdemeanor: a fine of not more than $2,500, or by
confinement in jail for not more than 12 months, or by both such fine and
confinement;
      (2)   Class 2 misdemeanor: a fine of not more than $1,000, or by
confinement in jail for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
confinement;
      (3)   Class 3 misdemeanor: a fine of not more than $500; and
      (4)   Class 4 misdemeanor: a fine of not more than $250.
   (B)   Whenever in any provision of this code or any other ordinance of the
county or any rule or regulation promulgated by an officer or agency of the
county, under authority duly vested in such officer or agency, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor,
or the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is
provided for the violation of such provision and such violation is not
described as being of a particular class of misdemeanor, such violation shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor and be punished as prescribed in subsection
(A)(1) above.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or any other
section of this code, no penalty for a violation of this code or other
ordinance, rule or regulation of the county shall exceed that prescribed by
state law for a like offense.
   (D)   Each day any violation of this code or any other ordinance or any rule
or regulation referred to in this section shall continue a separate offense,
except where otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to provide penalties for violation of ordinances and
provisions similar to subsection (C) above, see VA Code Title 15.1, Chapter 9,
Article 1
   Classification of misdemeanors and punishment therefor, see VA Code §§ 18.2-
9 and 18.2-11
§ 1-11 SPECIAL FEE IN CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC CASES TO SUPPORT COURTHOUSE
CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION OR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed as part of the fees incident to criminal or
traffic cases in the District or Circuit Court for the county, the sum of $2.
Such assessment shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court in which the
action is filed, who shall remit all such sums collected to the County
Treasurer to be held subject to disbursement by the Board of Supervisors for
the construction, renovation or maintenance of the county courthouse.
   (B)   The assessment provided for in this section shall be in addition to
all other costs prescribed by law or set by the courts as fees incident to
criminal or traffic cases.
(Prior Code, § 1-11) (Ord. passed 9-14-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code Title 12.1, Chapter 3
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
2-1   Disclosure statements required of certain county officers and employees
   
2-2   Courthouse security fee
   
2-3   Jail processing fee
   
2-4   Payment of monetary bonus
   
2-5—2-11      Reserved
Article II. Public Service Authority
   
2-12   Created; purpose; name
   
2-13   Articles of incorporation
   
2-14—2-23   Reserved
Article III. County Industrial Development Authority
   
2-24   Created; powers
   
2-25   Name
   
2-26—2-35   Reserved
Article IV. Joint Industrial Development Authority
   
2-36   Definition
   
2-37   Created
   
2-38   Name; short titles
   
2-39   Board of Directors
   
2-40   General powers and duties
   
2-41   Duties with respect to Duffield Industrial District
   
2-42   Reports
   
2-43   Relinquishment or transfer of responsibilities or obligations; criteria
for successor organization
   
2-44   Dissolution
   
2-45   Ratification of previous actions
   
2-46—2-55   Reserved
Article V. Fire Safety
   
2-56   Fire departments and rescue squads designed as part of county’s official
safety program
   
2-57   Junior firefighters
   
2-58–2-66   Reserved
Article VI. Regional Industrial Facilities Authority
   
2-67   Name
   
2-68   Localities
   
2-69   Governing body
   
2-70   Rules and by-laws
   
2-71   Agreement
Statutory reference:
   Local industrial development authorities, see VA Code §§ 15.1-1373 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 2-1 DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS REQUIRED OF CERTAIN COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to VA Code Title 2.2, all persons appointed or employed
by the Board of Supervisors and as designated in this subsection (A) shall
file, as a condition to assuming office or employment, a disclosure statement
of their personal interests and other information specified on the form set
forth in VA Code Title 2.2, and thereafter shall file such a statement annually
on or before January 15.
      (2)   Those persons who shall file such disclosure statements shall be
the executive officers of the Housing Authority, the Planning Commission, the
Department of Social Services, the County Public Service Authority, the St.
Charles Water Authority, the Dryden Water Authority, the Woodway Water
Authority, the County Water Authority, the Industrial Development Authority and
the Building Official, the County Attorney and the County Administrator.
   (B)   Citizen members of the Board of Directors or Commissioners of the
Housing Authority, the Planning Commission, the Department of Social Services,
the County Public Service Authority, the Woodway Water Authority, the Dryden
Water Authority, the St. Charles Water Authority, the County Water Authority,
the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Subdivision Committee, and the Industrial
Development Authority Board, as a condition to assuming office, shall file a
disclosure form of their personal interests and such information as is
specified on the form set forth in state law and thereafter shall file such
form annually on or before January 15.
   (C)   (1)   Forms referred to in this section shall be provided by the
Secretary of the Commonwealth to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors not
later than November 30 of each year, and the Clerk of the Board shall
distribute the forms to the designated individuals no later than December 10 of
each year.
      (2)   Forms shall be filed and maintained as public records for five
years in the office of the Clerk of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1) (Ord. passed 2-9-1990)
§ 2-2 COURTHOUSE SECURITY FEE.
   (A)   A courthouse security fee of $13 is imposed on any individual
convicted of a violation of any criminal or traffic statute or ordinance in the
General District or Circuit Courts for the county.
   (B)   The assessment shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court in which
the case is heard and remitted to the County Treasurer and held by such
Treasurer subject to appropriation by the governing body to the Sheriff’s
office for the funding of courthouse security personnel, equipment and other
personal property if requested by the Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2021)
§ 2-3 JAIL PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   A processing fee of $25 is imposed on any individual admitted to the
county jail, or any regional jail of which the county may be a participating
member, following conviction.
   (B)   The processing fee shall be ordered as a part of court costs collected
by the Clerk and deposited in the account of the County Treasurer to be used by
the local Sheriff’s office, subject to appropriation by the local governing
body, to defray costs of processing arrested persons into local or regional
jails.
(Ord. 02-037, passed 6-18-2002)
§ 2-4 PAYMENT OF MONETARY BONUS.
   The Board of Supervisors is authorized to provide for payment of monetary
bonuses to officers and employees, from time to time, by adoption of a
resolution stating the approval of any such bonuses.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§§ 2-5—2-11 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC SERVICE AUTHORITY
§ 2-12 CREATED; PURPOSE; NAME.
   There is hereby created an authority under the Virginia Water and Sewer
Authorities Act (VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 21, Article 3), for the purpose of
acquiring, financing, constructing, operating and maintaining a water and sewer
system or systems, pipelines and other property and facilities incidental
thereto for the primary purposes of furnishing water and sewer facilities to
residents of the county. The name of such authority shall be the County Public
Service Authority.
(Prior Code, § 2-12) (Ord. passed 11-13-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers and sewage disposal, see
Chapter 13
§ 2-13 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
   The articles of incorporation of the Authority created in §
2-12 shall be as set out in the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Prior Code, § 2-13) (Ord. passed 11-13-1989)
§§ 2-14—2-23 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 2-24 CREATED; POWERS.
   There is hereby created a political subdivision of the commonwealth with
such public and corporate powers as are set forth in the Industrial Development
and Revenue Bond Act, constituting VA Code Title 15.1, Chapter 33 (§§ 15.2-4900
et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 2-24) (Ord. passed 6-30-1971)
§ 2-25 NAME.
   The name of the political subdivision created in §
2-24 shall be the Economic Development Authority of Lee County, Virginia.
(Prior Code, § 2-25) (Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§§ 2-26—2-35 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. JOINT INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 2-36 DEFINITION.
   As used in this article, the word AUTHORITY shall mean the joint industrial
development authority created in this article.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
§ 2-37 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Joint Industrial Development Authority for the
counties of Lee, Scott and Wise, and the City of Norton.
(Prior Code, § 2-37) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
Editor’s note:
   An ordinance similar to the one from which this article is derived has been
adopted by the City of Norton and the Counties of Scott and Wise
Statutory reference:
   Power to create joint authority, see VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 13
§ 2-38 NAME; SHORT TITLES.
   The Authority shall be known as the “Industrial Development Authority of
Lee, Wise, and Scott Counties, and the City of Norton.” The Authority may use
the short titles of “LENOW-ISCO Industrial Center Authority” or “Duffield
Development Authority.”
(Prior Code, § 2-38) (Ord. passed 9-4-1979)
§ 2-39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors whose composition
shall be:
   (A)   One member from the City of Norton;
   (B)   Two members from Wise County;
   (C)   Two members from Lee County; and
   (D)   Two members from Scott County.
(Prior Code, § 2-39) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Directors generally, see VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 15
§ 2-40 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Authority shall have all the powers and duties given in VA Code Title
52, Subtitle II.
(Prior Code, § 2-40) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
§ 2-41 DUTIES WITH RESPECT TO DUFFIELD INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Authority shall be charged with the specific duty of developing
and operating a successful industrial district in the vicinity of Duffield,
Virginia, as proposed by the LENOW-ISCO Regional Planning and Economic
Development Commission.
   (B)   Accordingly, the following more specific responsibilities shall be
discharged:
      (1)   Approve, disapprove, adopt or modify all plans and engineering
project proposals for industrial sites and facilities necessary to serve them.
FACILITIES shall be defined as interior access roads, a water system, a sewage
collection and treatment system, rail facilities, unless otherwise provided,
sites for industrial use, natural gas transmission and distribution, unless
otherwise provided, and any others not provided as a privately-owned facility;
      (2)   Initiate all projects within the Duffield Industrial District;
      (3)   Solicit, accept and administer all local, state and federal grants-
in-aid for facilities to serve the industrial sites within the Duffield
Industrial District;
      (4)   Accept and own rights-of-way, easements and any other lands needed
for facilities to serve the Duffield Industrial District;
      (5)   Administer, operate and maintain the facilities necessary to serve
the industrial sites within the Duffield Industrial District;
      (6)   Manage and maintain the Duffield Industrial District in an
attractive state for industry; and
      (7)   Enter any negotiations necessary or advisable for the ownership,
guarantee, or control of land or other real property to be used for present and
future industrial sites and facilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-41) (Ord. passed 9-4-1979)
§ 2-42 REPORTS.
   The Authority shall report annually on its activities to each of the
sponsoring local governments or on demand of any sponsoring local government
and the annual or special reports shall contain at least the following:
   (A)   Financial report showing expenditures and revenues and a statement
showing financial condition at the end of the past preceding one-half fiscal
year. A fiscal year shall be July 1 to June 30;
   (B)   A written opinion of the success of the Duffield Industrial District
approved by its Board of Directors;
   (C)   Recommendations regarding the disposition of funds accrued by the
Authority, if any; and
   (D)   A list of tenants, purchasers or other persons occupying the Duffield
Industrial District or using any of its facilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-42) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
§ 2-43 RELINQUISHMENT OR TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITIES OR OBLIGATIONS; CRITERIA
FOR SUCCESSOR ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Authority shall relinquish or transfer any of its responsibilities
or obligations only after such responsibility or obligation has been completely
discharged to the satisfaction of the counties and the city which created it,
or a qualified successor organization has been named to assume the
responsibility or obligation.
   (B)   A successor organization shall be deemed qualified if it meets the
following criteria and has been unanimously accepted by formal resolution of
the counties and the city creating the Authority:
      (1)   The successor organization has agreed to assume all the
responsibilities or obligations to be transferred;
      (2)   The successor organization is legally constituted and properly
organized so as to adequately discharge the responsibility or obligation;
      (3)   There exists a reasonable agreement between the authority and the
successor organization regarding any assets or holdings of the Authority
involved in the transfer; and
      (4)   The transfer of responsibility or obligation to the nominated
successor organization does not constitute any gift of the assets, holdings or
original investment of the counties and the city to any non-public body or to
any tenants of the Authority or purchasers of property or service from the
Authority.
(Prior Code, § 2-43) (Ord. passed 9-4-1979)
§ 2-44 DISSOLUTION.
   When the Board of Directors of the Authority shall, by resolution, determine
that the purposes for which the Authority was formed have been substantially
complied with and all bonds theretofore issued and all obligations theretofore
incurred by the Authority have been fully paid, the members of the Board of
Directors of the Authority shall thereupon execute and file for record with the
governing bodies of Scott, Lee and Wise Counties, and the City of Norton, a
resolution declaring such facts. If such governing bodies are of the opinion
that the facts stated in the Authority’s resolutions are true and that the
Authority should be dissolved, they shall so resolve and the Authority shall
stand dissolved. Upon such dissolution, the title to all funds and properties
owned by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall vest in the
governing bodies creating the Authority, and possession of such funds and
properties shall forthwith be delivered to the governing bodies, to be divided
between the governing bodies in the apportionment of the original grants to the
authority; i.e., Wise County: 40%; Scott County: 30%; Lee County: 25%; and the
City of Norton: 5%.
(Prior Code, § 2-44) (Ord. passed 9-4-1979)
§ 2-45 RATIFICATION OF PREVIOUS ACTIONS.
   All previous actions of whatsoever kind or nature committed or done by the
Industrial Development Authority of Lee, Wise and Scott Counties, and the City
of Norton since February 11, 1969, to the date of enactment of the ordinance
from which this article is derived, are hereby confirmed, affirmed and approved
by the Counties of Wise, Lee and Scott, and the City of Norton.
(Prior Code, § 2-45) (Ord. passed 9-4-1979)
§§ 2-46—2-55 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. FIRE SAFETY
§ 2-56 FIRE DEPARTMENTS AND RESCUE SQUADS DESIGNED AS PART OF COUNTY’S OFFICIAL
SAFETY PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to the VA Code Title 9.1, Chapter 2, as amended, and in accordance
with the state’s Line of Duty Act, the active members of the Blackwater
Volunteer Fire Department; the Dryden Volunteer Fire Department; the Jasper
Volunteer Fire Department; the Jonesville Volunteer Fire Department; the Keokee
Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad; the Pennington Gap Volunteer Fire
Department #1; the Pennington Gap Volunteer Fire Department #2, the St. Charles
Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad; the Stickleyville Volunteer Fire
Department; the Thomas Walker Volunteer Fire Department #1; the Thomas Walker
Volunteer Fire Department #2; the Jonesville Volunteer Rescue Squad; the County
Rescue Squad, Pennington Gap Unit; the Thomas Walker Volunteer Rescue Squad;
the County Department of Emergency Management; and the Virginia Department of
Emergency Services Search and Rescue Teams are hereby recognized as an integral
part of the official safety program of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2012)
§ 2-57 JUNIOR FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Any person residing anywhere in the commonwealth, ages 16 years or
older, who is a member of a volunteer fire company within the county, with
parental or guardian approval, may seek certification under National Fire
Protection Association 1001, level one, firefighter standards, as administered
by the Department of Fire Programs; and work with or participate in activities
of such volunteer fire company; provided such person has attained certification
under National Fire Protection Association 1001, level one, firefighter
standards, as administered by the Department of Fire Programs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit participation by such persons
in non-hazardous activities of a volunteer fire company, including fire
prevention efforts and training courses approved by the Virginia Fire Services
Board that are designed to provide situational awareness.
   (C)   No minor who has achieved certification under National Fire Protection
Association 1001, level one, firefighter standards, as administered by the
Department of Fire Programs, on or before January 1, 2006, between the ages of
15 and 16, shall be required to repeat the certification after their sixteenth
birthday.
   (D)   Any trainer or instructor of such persons mentioned in subsection (A)
above and any member of a paid or volunteer fire company who supervises any
such persons shall be exempt from the provisions of VA Code § 40.1-103;
provided that the provisions of VA Code § 40.1-100 have not been violated, when
engaged in activities of a volunteer fire company, and provided that the
volunteer fire company has purchased insurance which provides coverage for
injuries to or the death of such persons in their performance of activities
under this section.
(Ord. 18-002, passed 9-18-2018)
§§ 2-58—2-66 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. REGIONAL INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES AUTHORITY
§ 2-67 NAME.
   The name of the Authority shall be the “Lonesome Pine Regional Industrial
Facility Authority.”
(Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 2-68 LOCALITIES.
   The member localities shall be the Counties of Lee, Scott, Wise and
Dickenson, and the City of Norton. Each locality’s participation shall become
effective as of the date their respective governing body enacts an ordinance
substantially similar to this article authorizing creation of the Authority.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 2-69 GOVERNING BODY.
   The Authority shall be governed by a board of ten members with two members
being selected from each member locality as provided by the Act.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 2-70 RULES AND BY-LAWS.
   The Authority may adopt such rules and by-laws as are consistent with the
Code of Virginia and this article, and may exercise all powers granted to such
authorities under state law.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 2-71 AGREEMENT.
   The Board authorizes approval, by future resolution of this Board and
execution by the chair or vice chair of the Board, an agreement among the
member localities establishing the respective rights and obligations of the
member localities with respect to the Authority, consistent with the provisions
of VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 64, as amended, and establishing the mutual
terms for participation in projects to fund Authority facilities. The Board’s
authorization includes, but is not limited to, authority for the Board to
approve, by resolution, agreements with the member localities to fund Authority
projects by committing future tax revenue derived from Authority facilities to
the Authority pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-6406, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
3-1   Definitions
Article II. Rabies Control and Licensing of Dogs
   
3-2   Rabies inoculation of companion animals; rabies clinics
   
3-3   Rabid animals
   
3-4   What dog licenses shall consist of
   
3-5   How to obtain license
   
3-6   Amount of license tax
   
3-7   Veterinarians to provide Treasurer with rabies certificate information;
civil penalty
   
3-8   When license tax payable
   
3-9   Displaying receipts
   
3-10   Dogs to wear tags; exceptions
   
3-11   Supplemental funds
   
3-12   Payment of license tax subsequent to summons
   
3-13   Duplicate license tags
   
3-14   Disposition of funds
   
3-15–3-19   Reserved
Article III. Authority of Local Governing Body
   
3-20   Female dogs in season prohibited from running at large
   
3-21   Control of dangerous dogs; penalties
   
3-22   Vicious dogs; penalties
   
3-23   Animal impoundment fee
   
3-24   Notification by individuals finding companion animals; penalty
   
3-25   Dogs killing, injuring or chasing livestock or poultry
   
3-26   Disposal of dead animals
   
3-27   Lawful fences and liability for damages by livestock to property of
other persons
   
3-28–3-29   Reserved
Article IV. Animal Control Officers and Humane Investigators
   
3-30   Position of animal control officer created
   
3-31   Capturing, confining and euthanizing companion animals by animal control
officers; approval of drugs used
   
3-32   Rabies exposure; local authority and responsibility plan
   
3-33   Seizure and impoundment of animals; notice and hearing; disposition of
animal; disposition of proceeds upon sale
   
3-34–3-39   Reserved
Article V. Cruelty to Animals
   
3-40   Cruelty to animals; penalty
Article VI. Mandatory Sterilization of Dogs and Cats Adopted from Releasing
Agencies
   
3-41   Sterilization of adopted dogs and cats; enforcement; civil penalty
   
3-42   Sterilization agreement
   
3-43   Sterilization confirmation; civil penalty
   
3-44   Notification concerning lost, stolen or dead dogs or cats; civil penalty
   
3-45   Exemptions
   
3-46   Releasing agency; fees and deposits
   
3-47   Civil penalties
   
3-48—4-49   Reserved
Article VII. Miscellaneous Provisions
   
3-50   Dogs and cats deemed personal property; rights relating thereto
   
3-51   Dog injuring or killing other companion animals
   
3-52   Unlawful acts; penalties
   
3-53   Intentional interference with guide or leader dog; penalty
   
3-54   Selling garments containing dog or cat fur prohibited; penalty
   
3-55J   urisdiction of general district court; right of appeal
   
3-56   Bounty for coyotes
Statutory reference:
   Comprehensive animal laws, see VA Code Title 3.2, Chapter 65
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To desert, forsake or absolutely give up an animal without having
secured another owner or custodian for the animal or by failing to provide the
elements of basic care as set forth in VA Code § 3.2-6503 for a period of five
consecutive days.
   ADEQUATE CARE or CARE. The responsible practice of good animal husbandry,
handling, production, management, confinement, feeding, watering, protection,
shelter, transportation, treatment, and, when necessary, euthanasia,
appropriate for the age, species, condition, size and type of the animal and
the provision of veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering or impairment
of health.
   ADEQUATE EXERCISE or EXERCISE. The opportunity for the animal to move
sufficiently to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for the age, species, size
and condition of the animal.
   ADEQUATE FEED. Access to and the provision of food that is of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to maintain each animal in good health; is
accessible to each animal; is prepared so as to permit ease of consumption for
the age, species, condition, size and type of each animal; is provided in a
clean and sanitary manner; is placed so as to minimize contamination by
excrement and pests; and is provided at suitable intervals for the species, age
and condition of the animal, but at least once daily, except as prescribed by a
veterinarian or as dictated by naturally occurring states of hibernation or
fasting normal for the species.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Provision of and access to shelter that is suitable for
the species, age, condition, size and type of each animal; provides adequate
space for each animal; is safe and protects each animal from injury, rain,
sleet, snow, hail, direct sunlight, the adverse effects of heat or cold,
physical suffering and impairment of health; is properly lighted; is properly
cleaned; enables each animal to be clean and dry, except when detrimental to
the species; and, for dogs and cats, provides a solid surface, resting
platform, pad, floormat or similar device that is large enough for the animal
to lie on in a normal manner and can be maintained in a sanitary manner. Under
this chapter, shelters whose wire, grid or slat floors; permit the animals’
feet to pass through the openings; sag under the animals’ weight; or otherwise
do not protect the animals’ feet or toes from injury are not ADEQUATE SHELTER.
   ADEQUATE SPACE. Sufficient space to allow each animal to: easily stand, sit,
lie, turn about and make all other normal body movements in a comfortable,
normal position for the animal; and interact safely with other animals in the
enclosure. When an animal is tethered, ADEQUATE SPACE means a tether that
permits the above actions and is appropriate to the age and size of the animal;
is attached to the animal by a properly applied collar, halter or harness
configured so as to protect the animal from injury and prevent the animal or
tether from becoming entangled with other objects or animals, or from extending
over an object or edge that could result in the strangulation or injury of the
animal; and is at least three times the length of the animal, as measured from
the tip of its nose to the base of its tail, except when the animal is being
walked on a leash or is attached by a tether to a lead line. When freedom of
movement would endanger the animal, temporarily and appropriately restricting
movement of the animal according to professionally accepted standards for the
species is considered provision of ADEQUATE SPACE.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Provision of and access to clean, fresh, potable water of a
drinkable temperature that is provided in a suitable manner, in sufficient
volume and at suitable intervals appropriate for the weather and temperature,
to maintain normal hydration for the age, species, condition, size and type of
each animal, except as prescribed by a veterinarian or as dictated by naturally
occurring states of hibernation or fasting normal for the species; and is
provided in clean, durable receptacles that are accessible to each animal and
are placed so as to minimize contamination of the water by excrement and pests
or an alternative source of hydration consistent with generally accepted
husbandry practices.
   ADOPTION. The transfer of ownership of a dog or a cat, or any other
companion animal, from a releasing agency to an individual.
   AGRICULTURAL ANIMALS. All livestock and poultry.
   ANIMAL. Any domesticated or pet animal of any species not to include wild or
game animals of any species.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person appointed as an animal control officer or
deputy animal control officer as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6555.
   BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT. A place or establishment, other than a public or
private animal shelter, where companion animals not owned by the proprietor are
sheltered, fed and watered in exchange for a fee.
   COLLAR. A well-fitted device, appropriate to the age and size of the animal,
attached to the animal’s neck in such a way as to prevent trauma or injury to
the animal.
   COMMERCIAL DOG BREEDER. Any person who, during any 12-month period,
maintains 30 or more adult female dogs for the primary purpose of the sale of
their off-spring as companion animals.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any domestic or feral dog, domestic or feral cat, non-
human primate, guinea pig, hamster, rabbit not raised for human food or fiber,
exotic or native animal, reptile, exotic or native bird, or any feral animal or
any animal under the care, custody or ownership of a person, or any animal that
is bought, sold, traded or bartered by any person. Agricultural animals, game
species or any animals regulated under federal law as research animals shall
not be considered COMPANION ANIMALS for the purposes of this chapter.
   CONSUMER. Any natural person purchasing an animal from a dealer or pet shop
or hiring the services of a boarding establishment. CONSUMER shall not include
a business or corporation engaged in sales or services.
   DEALER. Any person who in the regular course of business for compensation or
profit buys, sells, transfers, exchanges or barters companion animals. The
following shall not be considered DEALERS: any person who transports companion
animals in the regular course of business as a common carrier; or any person
whose primary purpose is to find permanent adoptive homes for companion
animals.
   DIRECT AND IMMEDIATE THREAT. Any clear and imminent danger to an animal’s
health, safety or life.
   DUMP. To knowingly desert, forsake or absolutely give up, without having
secured another owner or custodian any dog, cat or other companion animal in
any public place, including the right-of-way of any public highway, road or
street, or on the property of another.
   EMERGENCY VETERINARY TREATMENT. Veterinary treatment to stabilize a life
threatening condition, alleviate suffering, prevent further disease
transmission or prevent further disease progression.
   ENCLOSURE. A structure used to house or restrict animals from running at
large.
   EUTHANASIA. The humane destruction of an animal accomplished by a method
that involves instantaneous unconsciousness and immediate death or by a method
that involves anesthesia, produced by an agent that causes painless loss of
consciousness and death during such loss of consciousness.
   EXHIBITOR. Any person who has animals for or on public display, excluding an
exhibitor licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
   FACILITY. A building or portion thereof as designated by the State
Veterinarian, other than a private residential dwelling and its surrounding
grounds, that is used to contain a primary enclosure or enclosures in which
animals are housed or kept.
   FARMING ACTIVITY. Consistent with standard animal husbandry practices, the
raising, management and use of agricultural animals to provide food, fiber or
transportation, and the breeding, exhibition, lawful recreational use,
marketing, transportation and slaughter of agricultural animals pursuant to
such purposes.
   FOSTER CARE PROVIDER. A person who provides care or rehabilitation for
companion animals through an affiliation with a public or private animal
shelter, home-based rescue, releasing agency or other animal welfare
organization.
   FOSTER HOME. A private residential dwelling and its surrounding grounds or
any facility other than a public or private animal shelter, at which site
through an affiliation with a public or private animal shelter, home-based
rescue, releasing agency, or other animal welfare organization care or
rehabilitation is provided for companion animals.
   GROOMER. Any person who, for a fee, cleans, trims, brushes, makes neat,
manicures or treats for external parasites any animal.
   HOME-BASED RESCUE. An animal welfare organization that takes custody of
companion animals for the purpose of facilitating adoption and houses such
companion animals in a foster home or a system of foster homes.
   HUMANE. Any action taken in consideration of and with the intent to provide
for the animal’s health and well-being.
   HUMANE INVESTIGATOR. A person who has been appointed by a Circuit Court as a
humane investigator, as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6558.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any incorporated, non-profit organization that is organized
for the purposes of preventing cruelty to animals and promoting humane care and
treatment or adoptions of animals.
   INCORPORATED. Organized and maintained as a legal entity in the
commonwealth.
   KENNEL. Any establishment in which five or more canines, felines or hybrids
of either are kept for the purpose of breeding, hunting, training, renting,
buying, boarding, selling or showing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person who is a full-time or part-time employee
of a police department or sheriff’s office that is part of or administered by
the commonwealth or any political subdivision thereof, and who is responsible
for the prevention and detection of crime and the enforcement of the penal,
traffic or highway laws of the commonwealth. Part-time employees are
compensated officers who are not full-time employees as defined by the
employing police department or sheriff’s office.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes all domestic or domesticated: bovine animals; equine
animals: ovine animals; porcine animals; cervidae animals; capradae animals;
animals of the genus Lama; ratites; fish or shellfish in aquaculture
facilities, as defined in VA Code § 3.2-2600; enclosed domesticated rabbits or
hares raised for human food or fiber; or any other individual animal
specifically raised for food or fiber, except companion animals.
   NEW OWNER. An individual who is legally competent to enter into a binding
agreement pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6574(B)(2) and who adopts or receives a dog
or cat from a releasing agency.
   ORDINANCE. Any law, rule, regulation or ordinance adopted by the governing
body of any locality.
   OTHER OFFICER. All other persons employed or elected by the people of the
state, or by any locality, whose duty it is to preserve the peace, to make
arrests or to enforce the law.
   OWNER. Any person who has a right of property in an animal, keeps or harbors
an animal, has an animal in his or care, or acts as a custodian of an animal.
   PET SHOP. An establishment where companion animals are bought, sold,
exchanged or offered for sale or exchange to the general public.
   POULTRY. All domestic fowl and game birds raised in captivity.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal or
animals to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, cage, compartment or
hutch. For tethered animals, the term includes the shelter and the area within
reach of the tether.
   PRIVATE ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility operated for the purpose of finding
permanent adoptive homes for animals that is used to house or contain animals
and that is owned or operated by an incorporated, non-profit and non-
governmental entity, including a humane society, animal welfare organization,
society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or any other similar
organization.
   PROPERLY CLEANED. When carcasses, debris, food waste and excrement are
removed from the primary enclosure with sufficient frequency to minimize the
animals’ contact with the above-mentioned contaminants; the primary enclosure
is sanitized with sufficient frequency to minimize odors and the hazards of
disease; and the primary enclosure is cleaned so as to prevent the animals
confined therein from being directly or indirectly sprayed with the stream of
water, or directly or indirectly exposed to hazardous chemicals or
disinfectants.
   PROPERLY LIGHTED.
      (1)   When referring to a facility, means sufficient illumination to
permit routine inspections, maintenance, cleaning and housekeeping of the
facility, and observation of the animals: to provide regular diurnal lighting
cycles of either natural or artificial light, uniformly diffused throughout the
facility; and to promote the well-being of the animals.
      (2)   When referring to a private residential dwelling and its
surrounding grounds, means sufficient illumination to permit routine
maintenance and cleaning thereof, and observation of the companion animals; and
to provide regular diurnal lighting cycles of either natural or artificial
light to promote the well-being of the animals.
   PUBLIC ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility operated by the county for the purpose of
impounding or sheltering seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, unwanted or
surrendered animals, or a facility operated for the same purpose under a
contract with any locality.
   RELEASING AGENCY. A public animal shelter or a private animal shelter,
humane society, animal welfare organization, society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, or other similar entity or home-based rescue that releases
companion animals for adoption.
   RESEARCH FACILITY. Any place, laboratory or institution licensed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture at which scientific tests, experiments or
investigations involving the use of living animals are carried out, conducted
or attempted.
   STERILIZE or STERILIZATION. A surgical or chemical procedure performed by a
licensed veterinarian that renders a dog or cat permanently incapable of
reproducing.
   TREATMENT or ADEQUATE TREATMENT. The responsible handling or transportation
of animals in the person’s ownership, custody or charge, appropriate for the
age, species, condition, size and type of the animal.
   VETERINARY TREATMENT. Treatment by or on the order of a duly licensed
veterinarian.
   WEANED. When an animal is capable of and physiologically accustomed to
ingestion of solid food or food customary for the adult of the species and has
ingested such food, without nursing, for a period of at least five days.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE II. RABIES CONTROL AND LICENSING OF DOGS
§ 3-2 RABIES INOCULATION OF COMPANION ANIMALS; RABIES CLINICS.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of all dogs and cats four months of age and
older shall have such animal currently vaccinated for rabies by a licensed
veterinarian or licensed veterinary technician who is under the immediate and
direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian on the premises, unless otherwise
provided by regulations. The supervising veterinarian on the premises shall
provide the owner or custodian of the dog or the cat with a rabies vaccination
certificate and shall keep a copy in his or her own files. The owner or
custodian of the dog or the cat shall furnish within a reasonable period of
time, upon the request of an animal control officer, humane investigator, law
enforcement officer, State Veterinarian’s representative or official of the
Department of Health, the certificate of vaccination for such dog or cat, the
vaccine used shall be licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for use in
that species. At the discretion of the local health director, a medical record
from a licensed veterinary establishment reflecting a currently vaccinated
status may serve as proof of vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   All rabies clinics require the approval by the appropriate local
health department and governing body. The licensed veterinarian who administers
rabies vaccinations at the clinic shall provide the owner or custodian a rabies
vaccination certificate for each vaccinated animal; and ensure that a licensed
veterinary facility retains a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate.
      (2)   The sponsoring organization of a rabies clinic shall, upon the
request of the owner or custodian, an animal control officer, a humane
investigator, a law enforcement officer, a State Veterinarian’s representative,
a licensed veterinarian or an official of the Department of Health, provide the
name and contact information of the licensed veterinary facility where a copy
of the rabies vaccination certificate is retained. However, the county shall
ensure that a clinic is conducted to serve its jurisdiction at least once every
two years.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-3 RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   When there is sufficient reason to believe that the risk of exposure
to rabies is elevated, the governing body of any locality may enact, and the
local health director may recommend, an emergency ordinance that shall become
effective immediately upon passage, requiring owners of all dogs and cats
therein to keep the same confined on their premises, unless leashed under
restraint of the owner in such a manner that persons or animals will not be
subject to the danger of being bitten by a rabid animal. Any such emergency
ordinance enacted pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be operative
for a period not to exceed 30 days, unless renewed by the governing body of
such locality in consultation with the local health director.
   (B)   Any dog or cat showing active signs of rabies or suspected of having
rabies that is not known to have exposed a person, companion animal or
livestock to rabies shall be confined under competent observation for such a
time as may be necessary to determine a diagnosis. If, in the discretion of the
local health director, confinement is impossible or impracticable, such dog or
cat shall be euthanized by one of the methods approved by the State
Veterinarian, as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6546. The disposition of other
animals showing active signs of rabies shall be determined by the local health
director and may include euthanasia and testing.
   (C)   Every person having knowledge of the existence of an animal that is
suspected to be rabid and that may have exposed a person, companion animal or
livestock to rabies shall report immediately to the local health department the
existence of such animal, the place where seen, the owner’s name, if known, and
the signs suggesting rabies.
   (D)   Any dog or cat for which no proof of current rabies vaccination is
available and that may have been exposed to rabies through a bite, or through
saliva or central nervous system tissue, in a fresh open wound or mucous
membrane, by an animal suspected to be rabid shall be isolated in a public
animal shelter, kennel or enclosure approved by the local health department for
a period not to exceed six months at the expense of the owner or custodian in a
manner and by a date certain as determined by the local health director. A
rabies vaccination shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian prior to
release. An inactivated rabies vaccine may be administered at the beginning of
isolation. Any dog or cat so bitten, or exposed to rabies through saliva or
central nervous system tissue, in a fresh open wound or mucous membrane with
proof of current vaccination, shall be revaccinated by a licensed veterinarian
immediately following the exposure and shall be confined to the premises of the
owner or custodian, or other site as may be approved by the local health
department at the expense of the owner or custodian, for a period of 45 days.
If the local health director determines that isolation is not feasible or
maintained, such dog or cat shall be euthanized by one of the methods approved
by the State Veterinarian, as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6546. The disposition
of such dogs or cats not so confined shall be at the discretion of the local
health director.
   (E)   At the discretion of the local health director, any animal that may
have exposed a person shall be confined under competent observation for ten
days at the expense of the owner or custodian, unless the animal develops
active signs of rabies, expires or is euthanized before that time. A seriously
injured or sick animal may be euthanized as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6546.
   (F)   When any suspected rabid animal, other than a dog or cat, exposes or
may have exposed a person to rabies through a bite, or through saliva or
central nervous system tissue, in a fresh open wound or mucous membrane,
decisions regarding the disposition of that animal shall be at the discretion
of a local health director and may include euthanasia as provided in VA Code §
3.2-6546, or as directed by the state agency with jurisdiction over that
species. When any animal, other than a dog or cat, is exposed or may have been
exposed to rabies through a bite, or through saliva or central nervous system
tissue, in a fresh open wound or mucous membrane, by an animal suspected to be
rabid, decisions regarding the disposition of that newly exposed animal shall
be at the discretion of a local health director.
   (G)   When any animal may have exposed a person to rabies and subsequently
expires due to illness or euthanasia, either within an observation period,
where applicable, or as part of a public health investigation, its head or
brain shall be sent to the Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services of the
Department of General Services or be tested as directed by the local health
department.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-4 WHAT DOG LICENSE SHALL CONSIST OF.
   (A)   A dog license shall consist of a license receipt and a metal tag. The
tag shall be stamped or otherwise permanently marked to show the name of the
county and serial number.
   (B)   No license tag shall be issued for any dog, unless there is presented,
to the Treasurer or other officer of the locality, or other agent charged by
law with the duty of issuing license tags for dogs, satisfactory evidence that
such dog has been inoculated or vaccinated against rabies by a currently
licensed veterinarian or currently licensed veterinary technician who was under
the immediate and direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian on the
premises.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-5 HOW TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person may obtain a dog license by making application to the
County Treasurer accompanied by the amount of license tax and current
certificate of vaccination as required by this article or satisfactory evidence
that such certificate has been obtained.
   (B)   The Treasurer or other officer charged with the duty of issuing dog
licenses shall only have authority to license dogs of resident owners or
custodians who reside within the boundary limits of the county and may require
information to this effect from any applicant.
   (C)   Upon receipt of proper application and current certificate of
vaccination as required by this article or satisfactory evidence that such
certificate has been obtained, the Treasurer or other officer charged with the
duty of issuing dog licenses shall issue a license receipt for the amount on
which he or she shall record the name and address of the owner or custodian,
the date of payment, the year for which issued, the serial number of the tag,
whether male or female, whether spayed or neutered, or whether a kennel, and
deliver the metal license tags or plates provided for herein.
   (D)   The information thus received shall be retained by the Treasurer, open
to public inspection, during the period for which such license is valid.
   (E)   The Treasurer may establish substations in convenient locations in the
county and appoint agents for the collection of the license tax and issuance of
such licenses.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-6 AMOUNT OF LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   A one-year or three-year license tax is hereby imposed on dogs
required to be licensed under this article in the following amounts:
      (1)   Any individual dog, whether male, female or unsexed: $2 for one
year or $6 for three years; and
      (2)   A kennel of 20 dogs or less: $15 for one year or $45 for three
years.
   (B)   No license tax shall be levied on any dog that is trained and serves
as a guide dog for a blind person, that is trained and serves as a hearing dog
for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or that is trained and serves as a
service dog for a mobility-impaired or otherwise disabled person.
   (C)   As used in this section, hearing dog, mobility-impaired person,
otherwise disabled person and service dog have the same meanings as assigned in
VA Code § 51.5-40.1.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-7 VETERINARIANS TO PROVIDE TREASURER WITH RABIES CERTIFICATE INFORMATION;
CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Each veterinarian who vaccinates a dog against rabies or directs
a veterinary technician in his or her employ to vaccinate a dog against rabies
shall provide the owner a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate. The
veterinarian shall forward, within 45 days, a copy of the rabies vaccination
certificate or the relevant information contained in such certificate to the
treasurer of the locality where the vaccination occurs.
      (2)   The rabies vaccination certificate shall include, at a minimum, the
signature of the veterinarian, the animal owner’s name and address, the species
of the animal, the sex, the age, the color, the primary breed, whether or not
the animal is spayed or neutered, the vaccination number, and expiration date.
The rabies vaccination certificate shall indicate the locality where the animal
resides.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each vaccinated animal
that is not already licensed to apply for a license for the vaccinated dog. If
the Treasurer determines, from review of the rabies vaccination information
provided by veterinarians, that the owner of an unlicensed dog has failed to
apply for a license within 90 days of the date of vaccination, the Treasurer
shall transmit an application to the owner and request the owner to submit a
completed application and pay the appropriate fee. Upon receipt of the
completed application and payment of the license fee, the Treasurer or other
agent charged with the duty of issuing the dog licenses shall issue a license
receipt and a permanent tag. The Treasurer shall retain only the information
that is required to be collected and open to public inspection pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and shall forthwith destroy any rabies vaccination
certificate or other similar record transmitted by a veterinarian to a
treasurer pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Any veterinarian that willfully fails to provide the treasurer of any
locality with a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate or the information
contained in such certificate may be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed
$10 per certificate. Monies raised pursuant to this subsection (C) shall be
placed in the locality’s general fund for the purpose of animal control
activities including spay or neuter programs.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-8 WHEN LICENSE TAX PAYABLE.
   Licensing periods for individual dogs and kennels shall be on a calendar
year basis and the license tax on dogs shall be due and payable as follows:
   (A)   On January 1 and not later than January 31 of each year, or third year
if applicable, the owner/custodian of any dog four months old or older shall
pay such tax;
   (B)   Not later than 30 days after a dog shall has reached the age of four
months; or
   (C)   Not later than 30 days after an owner acquired a dog four months of
age or older and each year thereafter.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-9 DISPLAYING RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Dog license receipts shall be carefully preserved by the licensees and
exhibited promptly on request for inspection by any animal control officer or
other officer.
   (B)   Any part or all of any surplus remaining in such account on December
31 of any year may be transferred by the governing body of such locality into
the general fund of such locality.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-10 DOGS TO WEAR TAGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Dog license tags shall be securely fastened to a substantial collar by
the owner or custodian and worn by such dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner
to permit any licensed dog four months old or older to run or roam at large at
any time without a license tag.
   (B)   The owner of the dog may remove the collar and license tag required by
this section when: the dog is engaged in lawful hunting; the dog is competing
in a dog show; the dog has a skin condition that would be exacerbated by the
wearing of a collar; the dog is confined; or the dog is under the immediate
control of its owner.
   (C)   Any dog not wearing a collar bearing a valid license tag shall prima
facie be deemed to be unlicensed, and in any proceedings under this chapter the
burden of proof of the fact that such dog has been licensed, or is otherwise
not required to bear a tag at the time, shall be on the owner of the dog.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-11 SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDS.
   Localities may supplement the Dog License Tax Fund with other funds as they
consider appropriate. Localities shall supplement the Dog License Tax Fund to
the extent necessary to provide for the salary and expenses of the animal
control officer and staff, and the care and maintenance of a public animal
shelter as provided in VA Code § 3.2-6534(1) and (2).
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-12 PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX SUBSEQUENT TO SUMMONS.
   Payment of the license tax subsequent to a summons to appear before a court
for failure to pay the license tax within the time required shall not operate
to relieve such owner from the penalties or court costs provided under VA Code
§§ 16.1-69.48:1 or 17.1-275.7.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-13 DUPLICATE LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   If a dog license tag is lost, destroyed or stolen, the owner or
custodian shall at once apply to the Treasurer or his or her agent who issued
the original license for a duplicate license tag, presenting the original
license receipt.
   (B)   Upon affidavit of the owner or custodian before the Treasurer or his
or her agent that the original license tag has been lost, destroyed or stolen,
he or she shall issue a duplicate license tag that the owner or custodian shall
immediately affix to the collar of the dog.
   (C)   The Treasurer or his or her agent shall endorse the number of the
duplicate and the date issued on the face of the original license receipt.
   (D)   The fee for a duplicate tag for any dog shall be $ 1.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-14 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All dog license taxes collected by the Treasurer shall be held in the
general fund of the county which shall be used for the salary and expenses of
the animal control officer and any necessary staff, and the care and
maintenance of a public animal shelter.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§§ 3-15—3-19 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. AUTHORITY OF LOCAL GOVERNING BODY
§ 3-20 FEMALE DOGS IN SEASON PROHIBITED FROM RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow any female dog in season to run
at large in the unincorporated areas of the county. Owners shall temporarily
confine, restrict or pen up any female dog while in season. For the purpose of
this section, a dog shall be deemed to run at large while roaming, running or
self-hunting off the property of its owner or custodian and not under its
owner’s or custodian’s immediate control.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-21 CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOGS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   As used in this section, DANGEROUS DOG means a canine or canine
crossbreed that has bitten, attacked, or inflicted injury on a person or
companion animal that is a dog or cat, or killed a companion animal that is a
dog or cat. When a dog attacks or bites a companion animal that is a dog or
cat, the attacking or biting dog shall not be deemed dangerous if no serious
physical injury as determined by a licensed veterinarian has occurred to the
dog or cat as a result of the attack or bite; if both animals are owned by the
same person; if such attack occurs on the property of the attacking or biting
dog’s owner or custodian; or for other good cause as determined by the court.
No dog shall be found to be a dangerous dog as a result of biting, attacking or
inflicting injury on a dog or cat while engaged with an owner or custodian as
part of lawful hunting or participating in an organized, lawful dog handling
event. No dog that has bitten, attacked or inflicted injury on a person shall
be found to be a dangerous dog if the court determines, based on the totality
of the evidence before it, that the dog is not dangerous or a threat to the
community.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or animal control officer who has reason
to believe that a canine or canine crossbreed within his or her jurisdiction is
a dangerous dog shall apply to a magistrate serving the jurisdiction for the
issuance of a summons requiring the owner or custodian, if known, to appear
before a general district court at a specified time. The summons shall advise
the owner of the nature of the proceeding and the matters at issue. If a law
enforcement officer successfully makes an application for the issuance of a
summons, he or she shall contact the local animal control officer and inform
him or her of the location of the dog and the relevant facts pertaining to his
or her belief that the dog is dangerous. The animal control officer shall
confine the animal until such time as evidence shall be heard and a verdict
rendered. If the animal control officer determines that the owner or custodian
can confine the animal in a manner that protects the public safety, he or she
may permit the owner or custodian to confine the animal until such time as
evidence shall be heard and a verdict rendered. The court, through its contempt
powers, may compel the owner, custodian or harborer of the animal to produce
the animal. If, after hearing the evidence, the court finds that the animal is
a dangerous dog, the court shall order the animal’s owner to comply with the
provisions of this section. The court, upon finding the animal to be a
dangerous dog, may order the owner, custodian or harborer thereof to pay
restitution for actual damages to any person injured by the animal or whose
companion animal was injured or killed by the animal. The court, in its
discretion, may also order the owner to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in
caring and providing for such dangerous dog from the time the animal is taken
into custody until such time as the animal is disposed of or returned to the
owner. The procedure for appeal and trial shall be the same as provided by law
for misdemeanors. Trial by jury shall be as provided in VA Code Title 19.2,
Chapter 15, Article 4 (§§ 19.2-260 et seq.).
   (C)   No canine or canine crossbreed shall be found to be a dangerous dog
solely because it is a particular breed, nor is the ownership of a particular
breed of canine or canine crossbreed prohibited. No animal shall be found to be
a dangerous dog if the threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who
was committing, at the time, a crime upon the premises occupied by the animal’s
owner or custodian; committing, at the time, a willful trespass upon the
premises occupied by the animal’s owner or custodian; or provoking, tormenting
or physically abusing the animal, or can be shown to have repeatedly provoked,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal at other times. No police dog that
was engaged in the performance of its duties as such at the time of the acts
complained of shall be found to be a dangerous dog. No animal that, at the time
of the acts complained of, was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting
itself, its kennel, its off-spring, a person, or its owner’s or custodian’s
property, shall be found to be a dangerous dog.
   (D)   If the owner of an animal found to be a dangerous dog is a minor, the
custodial parent or legal guardian shall be responsible for complying with all
requirements of this section.
   (E)   The owner of any animal found to be a dangerous dog shall, within 45
days of such finding, obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the
local animal control officer or Treasurer for a fee of $150, in addition to
other fees that may be authorized by law. The local animal control officer or
Treasurer shall also provide the owner with a uniformly designed tag that
identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall affix the tag to the
animal’s collar and ensure that the animal wears the collar and tag at all
times. By January 31 of each year, until such time as the dangerous dog is
deceased, all certificates obtained pursuant to this subsection (E) shall be
updated and renewed for a fee of $85 and in the same manner as the initial
certificate was obtained. The animal control officer shall post registration
information on the Virginia Dangerous Dog Registry.
   (F)   All dangerous dog registration certificates or renewals thereof
required to be obtained under this section shall only be issued to persons 18
years of age or older who present satisfactory evidence of the animal’s current
rabies vaccination, if applicable; that the animal has been neutered or spayed;
and that the animal is and will be confined in a proper enclosure, or is and
will be confined inside the owner’s residence, or is and will be muzzled and
confined in the owner’s fenced in yard until the proper enclosure is
constructed. In addition, owners who apply for certificates or renewals thereof
under this section shall not be issued a certificate or renewal thereof, unless
they present satisfactory evidence that their residence is and will continue to
be posted with clearly visible signs warning both minors and adults of the
presence of a dangerous dog on the property; and the animal has been
permanently identified by means of electronic implantation. All certificates or
renewals thereof required to be obtained under this section shall only be
issued to persons who present satisfactory evidence that the owner has
liability insurance coverage, to the value of at least $100,000, that covers
animal bites. The owner may obtain and maintain a bond in surety, in lieu of
liability insurance, to the value of at least $100,000.
   (G)   While on the property of its owner, an animal found to be a dangerous
dog shall be confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked structure of
sufficient height and design to prevent its escape or direct contact with or
entry by minors, adults or other animals. While so confined within the
structure, the animal shall be provided for according to VA Code § 3.2-6503.
When off its owner’s property, an animal found to be a dangerous dog shall be
kept on a leash and muzzled in such a manner as not to cause injury to the
animal or interfere with the animal’s vision or respiration, but so as to
prevent it from biting a person or another animal.
   (H)   The owner shall cause the local animal control officer to be promptly
notified of the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners; all of
the means necessary to locate the owner and the dog at any time; any complaints
or incidents of attack by the dog upon any person or cat or dog; any claims
made or lawsuits brought as a result of any attack; chip identification
information; proof of insurance or surety bond; and the death of the dog.
   (I)   After an animal has been found to be a dangerous dog, the animal’s
owner shall immediately, upon learning of same, cause the local animal control
authority to be notified if the animal is loose or unconfined; bites a person
or attacks another animal; or is sold, is given away or dies. Any owner of a
dangerous dog who relocates to a new address shall, within ten days of
relocating, provide written notice to the appropriate local animal control
authority for the old address from which the animal has moved and the new
address to which the animal has been moved.
   (J)   (1)   Any owner or custodian of a canine or canine crossbreed or other
animal is guilty of a:
         (a)   Class 2 misdemeanor if the canine or canine crossbreed
previously declared a dangerous dog pursuant to this section, when such
declaration arose out of a separate and distinct incident, attacks and injures
or kills a cat or dog that is a companion animal belonging to another person;
         (b)   Class 1 misdemeanor if the canine or canine crossbreed
previously declared a dangerous dog pursuant to this section, when such
declaration arose out of a separate and distinct incident, bites a human being
or attacks a human being causing bodily injury; or
         (c)   Class 6 felony if any owner or custodian whose willful act or
omission in the care, control or containment of a canine, canine crossbreed or
other animal is so gross, wanton and culpable as to show a reckless disregard
for human life, and is the proximate cause of such dog or other animal
attacking and causing serious bodily injury to any person.
      (2)   The provisions of this subsection (J) shall not apply to any animal
that, at the time of the acts complained of, was responding to pain or injury,
or was protecting itself, its kennel, its off-spring, a person, or its owner’s
or custodian’s property, or when the animal is a police dog that is engaged in
the performance of its duties at the time of the attack.
   (K)   (1)   The owner of any animal that has been found to be a dangerous
dog who willfully fails to comply with the requirements of this section is
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Whenever an owner or custodian of an animal
found to be a dangerous dog is charged with a violation of this section, the
animal control officer shall confine the dangerous dog until such time as
evidence shall be heard and a verdict rendered. The court, through its contempt
powers, may compel the owner, custodian or harborer of the animal to produce
the animal.
      (2)   Upon conviction, the court may order the dangerous dog to be
disposed of by a local governing body pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6562; or grant
the owner up to 45 days to comply with the requirements of this section, during
which time the dangerous dog shall remain in the custody of the animal control
officer until compliance has been verified. If the owner fails to achieve
compliance within the time specified by the court, the court shall order the
dangerous dog to be disposed of by a local governing body pursuant to VA Code §
3.2-6562. The court, in its discretion, may order the owner to pay all
reasonable expenses incurred in caring and providing for such dangerous dog
from the time the animal is taken into custody until such time that the animal
is disposed of or returned to the owner.
   (L)   All fees collected pursuant to this section, less the costs incurred
by the animal control authority in producing and distributing the certificates
and tags required by this section and fees due to the State Veterinarian for
maintenance of the Virginia Dangerous Dog Registry, shall be paid into a
special dedicated fund in the treasury of the locality for the purpose of
paying the expenses of any training course required under VA Code § 3.2-6556.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-22 VICIOUS DOGS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SERIOUS INJURY. An injury having a reasonable potential to cause death or
any injury other than a sprain or strain, including serious disfigurement,
serious impairment of health, or serious impairment of bodily function and
requiring significant medical attention.
      VICIOUS DOG. A canine or canine crossbreed that has killed a person;
inflicted serious injury to a person; or continued to exhibit the behavior that
resulted in a previous finding by a court or, on or before July 1, 2006, by an
animal control officer as authorized by ordinance that it is a dangerous dog;
provided that its owner has been given notice of that finding.
   (B)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer or animal control officer who has
reason to believe that a canine or canine crossbreed within his or her
jurisdiction is a vicious dog shall apply to a magistrate serving the
jurisdiction for the issuance of a summons requiring the owner or custodian, if
known, to appear before a general district court at a specified time. The
summons shall advise the owner of the nature of the proceeding and the matters
at issue. If a law enforcement officer successfully makes an application for
the issuance of a summons, he or she shall contact the local animal control
officer and inform him or her of the location of the dog and the relevant facts
pertaining to his or her belief that the dog is vicious, and the animal control
officer shall confine the animal until such time as evidence shall be heard and
a verdict rendered. The court, through its contempt powers, may compel the
owner, custodian or harborer of the animal to produce the animal.
         (2)   If, after hearing the evidence, the court finds that the animal
is a vicious dog, the court shall order the animal euthanized in accordance
with the provisions of VA Code § 3.2-6562. The court, upon finding the animal
to be a vicious dog, may order the owner, custodian or harborer thereof to pay
restitution for actual damages to any person injured by the animal or to the
estate of any person killed by the animal. The court, in its discretion, may
also order the owner to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in caring and
providing for such vicious dog from the time the animal is taken into custody
until such time as the animal is disposed of the procedure for appeal, and
trial shall be the same as provided by law for misdemeanors. Trial by jury
shall be as provided in VA Code Title 19.2, Chapter 15, Article 4 (§§ 19.2-260
et seq.).
   (C)   No canine or canine crossbreed shall be found to be a vicious dog
solely because it is a particular breed, nor is the ownership of a particular
breed of canine or canine crossbreed prohibited. No animal shall be found to be
a vicious dog if the threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who was
committing, at the time, a crime upon the premises occupied by the animal’s
owner or custodian; committing, at the time, a willful trespass upon the
premises occupied by the animal’s owner or custodian; or provoking, tormenting
or physically abusing the animal, or can be shown to have repeatedly provoked,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal at other times. No police dog that
was engaged in the performance of its duties as such at the time of the acts
complained of shall be found to be a vicious dog. No animal that, at the time
of the acts complained of, was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its kennel, its off-spring, a person, or its owner’s or custodian’s
property, shall be found to be a vicious dog.
   (D)   Any owner or custodian of a canine or canine crossbreed or other
animal whose willful act or omission in the care, control or containment of a
canine, canine crossbreed or other animal is so gross, wanton and culpable as
to show a reckless disregard for human life and is the proximate cause of such
dog or other animal attacking and causing serious injury to any person is
guilty of a Class 6 felony. The provisions of this subsection (D) shall not
apply to any animal that, at the time of the acts complained of, was responding
to pain or injury or was protecting itself, its kennel, its off-spring, a
person or its owner’s or custodian’s property, or when the animal is a police
dog that is engaged in the performance of its duties at the time of the attack.
   (E)   The governing body of any locality may enact an ordinance parallel to
this section regulating vicious dogs. No locality may impose a felony penalty
for violation of such ordinances.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-23 ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT FEE.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6546, an impoundment fee shall be charged for the
impoundment of any animal at the county animal shelter reclaimed by its
rightful owner; said fee to be calculated on a daily basis and established from
time to time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-24 NOTIFICATION BY INDIVIDUALS FINDING COMPANION ANIMALS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual who finds a companion animal and provides care or
safekeeping; or retains the companion animal in such a manner as to control its
activities shall within 48 hours:
      (1)   Make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner of the companion
animal if the owner can be ascertained from any tag, license, collar, tattoo or
other form of identification or markings, or if the owner of the animal is
otherwise known to the individual; and
      (2)   Notify the public animal shelter that serves the locality where the
companion animal was found and provide to the shelter contact information,
including at least a name and a contact telephone number, a description of the
animal, including information from any tag, license, collar, tattoo or other
identification or markings, and the location where the companion animal was
found.
   (B)   If an individual finds a companion animal and provides care or
safekeeping, or retains the companion animal in such a manner as to control its
activities, the individual shall comply with the provisions of VA Code § 3.2-
6503.
   (C)   Any individual who violates this section may be subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed $50 per companion animal.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-25 DOGS KILLING, INJURING OR CHASING LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of any animal control officer or other
officer who may find a dog in the act of killing or injuring livestock or
poultry to seize or kill such dog forthwith, whether such dog bears a tag or
not. Any person finding a dog committing any of the depredations mentioned in
this section shall have the right to kill such dog on sight, as shall any owner
of livestock or his or her agent finding a dog chasing livestock on land
utilized by the livestock when the circumstances show that such chasing is
harmful to the livestock.
      (2)   Any court shall have the power to order the animal control officer
or other officer to kill any dog known to be a confirmed livestock or poultry
killer, and any dog killing poultry for the third time shall be considered a
confirmed poultry killer. The court, through its contempt powers, may compel
the owner, custodian or harborer of the dog to produce the dog.
   (B)   Any animal control officer who has reason to believe that any dog is
killing livestock or poultry shall be empowered to seize such dog solely for
the purpose of examining such dog in order to determine whether it committed
any of the depredations mentioned herein. Any animal control officer or other
person who has reason to believe that any dog is killing livestock, or
committing any of the depredations mentioned in this section, shall apply to a
magistrate serving the locality wherein the dog may be, who shall issue a
warrant requiring the owner or custodian, if known, to appear before a general
district court at a time and place named therein, at which time evidence shall
be heard. If it shall appear that the dog is a livestock killer, or has
committed any of the depredations mentioned in this section, the district court
shall order that the dog be killed immediately by the animal control officer or
other officer designated by the court; or removed to another state that does
not border on the commonwealth and prohibited from returning to the
commonwealth. Any dog ordered removed from the commonwealth that is later found
in the commonwealth shall be ordered by a court to be killed immediately.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-26 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   When the owner of any animal which has died knows of such death, such
owner shall forthwith have its body cremated or buried, and if he or she fails
to do so, any judge of a general district court, after notice to the owner, if
he or she can be ascertained, shall cause any such dead animal to be cremated
or buried by an officer or other person designated for the purpose. Such
officer or other person shall be entitled to recover of the owner of every such
animal so cremated or buried the actual cost of the cremation or burial, not to
exceed $75, to be recovered in the same manner as officer’s fees are recovered,
free from all exemptions in favor of such owners.
   (B)   Any person violating the provision of this section shall be guilty of
a Class 4 misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require the
burial or cremation of the whole or portions of any animal which is to be used
for food or in any commercial manner.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-27 LAWFUL FENCES AND LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES BY LIVESTOCK TO PROPERTY OF
OTHER PERSONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to VA Code Title 55.1, Chapter 28, the boundary line of each
lot or tract of land within the county is hereby declared to be a lawful fence
as to any and all domesticated livestock referred to in VA Code Title 55.1,
Chapter 28.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow or permit any
livestock or poultry or other fowl of any description owned by him or her or
under his or her control to repeatedly stray into any public highway or public
property or private premises of another, and all livestock or poultry or fowl
shall be sufficiently confined or fenced by the owner or person exercising
control over the same so as to prevent the same from trespassing or straying.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016; Ord. 18-001, passed 1-19-2018)
§§ 3-28—3-29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS AND HUMANE INVESTIGATORS
§ 3-30 POSITION OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER CREATED.
   The Board of Supervisors shall appoint an officer to be known as the animal
control officer who shall have the power to enforce this chapter, all
ordinances enacted pursuant to this chapter and all laws for the protection of
domestic animals. The governing body may also employ one or more deputy animal
control officers to assist the animal control officer in the performance of his
or her duties. Animal control officers and deputy animal control officers shall
have knowledge of the animal control and protection laws of the commonwealth
that they are required to enforce. When in uniform or upon displaying a badge
or other credentials of office, animal control officers and deputy animal
control officers shall have the power to issue a summons or obtain a felony
warrant as necessary; providing the execution of such warrant shall be carried
out by any law enforcement officer as defined in VA Code § 9.1-101, to any
person found in the act of violating any such law or any ordinance enacted
pursuant to such law of the locality where the animal control officer or deputy
animal control officer is employed. Commercial dog breeding locations shall be
subject to inspection by animal control at least twice annually and
additionally upon receipt of a complaint or their own motion to ensure
compliance with state animal care laws and regulations.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-31 CAPTURING, CONFINING AND EUTHANIZING COMPANION ANIMALS BY ANIMAL CONTROL
OFFICERS; APPROVAL OF DRUGS USED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer or any other
officer to capture and confine any companion animal of unknown ownership found
running at large on which the license fee has not been paid. Following the
expiration of the holding period prescribed in VA Code § 3.2-6546, the animal
control officer or other officer may deliver such companion animal to any
person in his or her jurisdiction who will pay the required license fee on such
companion animal. Prior to disposition by euthanasia or otherwise, all the
provisions of VA Code § 3.2-6546 shall have been complied with. For all
companion animals not otherwise disposed of as provided for in this chapter, it
shall be the duty of the animal control officer or any other officer to
euthanize such companion animals. Any person, animal control officer or other
officer euthanizing a companion animal under this chapter shall cremate, bury
or sanitarily dispose of the same.
   (B)   All drugs and drug administering equipment used by animal control
officers or other officers to capture companion animals pursuant to this
chapter shall have been approved by the State Veterinarian.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-32 RABIES EXPOSURE; LOCAL AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY PLAN.
   The local health director, in conjunction with the governing body of the
locality, shall adopt a plan to control and respond to the risk of rabies
exposure to persons and companion animals. Such plan shall set forth a
procedure that promptly ensures the capture, confinement, isolation or
euthanasia of any animal that has exposed, or poses a risk of exposing, a
person or companion animal to rabies. The plan shall identify the authority and
responsibility of the local health department, law enforcement officers, animal
control officers and any other persons with a duty to control or respond to a
risk of rabies exposure. The plan shall provide for law enforcement officers,
animal control officers and other persons to report to and be directed by the
local health director for such purposes.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-33 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS; NOTICE AND HEARING; DISPOSITION OF
ANIMAL; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS UPON SALE.
   (A)   Any humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control
officer may lawfully seize and impound any animal that has been abandoned, has
been cruelly treated or is suffering from an apparent violation of this chapter
that has rendered the animal in such a condition as to constitute a direct and
immediate threat to its life, safety or health. The seizure or impoundment of
an equine resulting from a violation of VA Code § 3.2-6570(A)(iii) or (B)(ii)
may be undertaken only by the State Veterinarian or State Veterinarian’s
representative who has received training in the examination and detection of
sore horses as required by 9 C.F.R. § 11.7.
   (B)   (1)   Before seizing or impounding any agricultural animal, the humane
investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control officer shall contact
the State Veterinarian or State Veterinarian’s representative, who shall
recommend to the person the most appropriate action for effecting the seizure
and impoundment. The humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal
control officer shall notify the owner of the agricultural animal and the local
attorney for the commonwealth of the recommendation. The humane investigator,
law enforcement officer or animal control officer may impound the agricultural
animal on the land where the agricultural animal is located if:
         (a)   The owner or tenant of the land where the agricultural animal is
located gives written permission;
         (b)   A general district court so orders; or
         (c)   The owner or tenant of the land where the agricultural animal is
located cannot be immediately located, and it is in the best interest of the
agricultural animal to be impounded on the land where it is located until the
written permission of the owner or tenant of the land can be obtained.
      (2)   If there is a direct and immediate threat to an agricultural
animal, the humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control
officer may seize the animal, in which case the humane investigator, law
enforcement officer or animal control officer shall file within five business
days on a form approved by the State Veterinarian a report on the condition of
the animal at the time of the seizure, the location of impoundment and any
other information required by the State Veterinarian.
   (C)   Upon seizing or impounding an animal, the humane investigator, law
enforcement officer or animal control officer shall petition the general
district court in the city or county where the animal is seized for a hearing.
The hearing shall be not more than ten business days from the date of the
seizure of the animal. The hearing shall be to determine whether the animal has
been abandoned, has been cruelly treated or has not been provided adequate
care.
   (D)   The humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control
officer shall cause to be served upon the person with a right of property in
the animal or the custodian of the animal notice of the hearing. If such person
or the custodian is known and residing within the jurisdiction wherein the
animal is seized, written notice shall be given at least five days prior to the
hearing of the time and place of the hearing. If such person or the custodian
is known but residing out of the jurisdiction where such animal is seized,
written notice by any method or service of process as is provided by the state
statutes shall be given. If such person or the custodian is not known, the
humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control officer shall
cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction
wherein such animal is seized notice of the hearing at least one time prior to
the hearing and shall further cause notice of the hearing to be posted at least
five days prior to the hearing at the place; provided for public notices at the
city hall or courthouse wherein such hearing shall be held.
   (E)   The procedure for appeal and trial shall be the same as provided by
law for misdemeanors. Trial by jury shall be as provided in VA Code Title 19.2,
Chapter 15, Article 4 (§§ 19.2-260 et seq.).
   (F)   The humane investigator, law enforcement officer or animal control
officer shall provide for such animal until the court has concluded the
hearing. Any locality may require the owner of any animal held pursuant to this
subsection (F) for more than 30 days to post a bond in surety with the locality
for the amount of the cost of boarding the animal for a period of time set by
ordinance, not to exceed nine months. If the court determines that the animal
has been neither abandoned, cruelly treated or deprived of adequate care, the
animal shall be returned to the owner. If the court determines that the animal
has been abandoned or cruelly treated; deprived of adequate care, as that term
is defined in VA Code § 3.2-6500; or raised as a dog that has been, is, or is
intended to be used in dog fighting in violation of VA Code § 3.2-6571, then
the court shall order that the animal may be: sold by a local governing body,
if not a companion animal; disposed of by a local governing body pursuant to VA
Code § 3.2-6546(D), whether such animal is a companion animal or an
agricultural animal; or delivered to the person with a right of property in the
animal as provided in subsection (G) below.
   (G)   In no case shall the owner be allowed to purchase, adopt or otherwise
obtain the animal if the court determines that the animal has been abandoned,
cruelly treated or deprived of adequate care. The court shall direct that the
animal be delivered to the person with a right of property in the animal, upon
his or her request, if the court finds that the abandonment, cruel treatment or
deprivation of adequate care is not attributable to the actions or inactions of
such person.
   (H)   The court shall order the owner of any animal determined to have been
abandoned, cruelly treated or deprived of adequate care to pay all reasonable
expenses incurred in caring and providing for such animal from the time the
animal is seized until such time that the animal is disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of this section, to the provider of such care.
   (I)   The court may prohibit the possession or ownership of other companion
animals by the owner of any companion animal found to have been abandoned,
cruelly treated or deprived of adequate care. In making a determination to
prohibit the possession or ownership of companion animals, the court may take
into consideration the owner’s past record of convictions under this chapter or
other laws prohibiting cruelty to animals or pertaining to the care or
treatment of animals and the owner’s mental and physical condition.
   (J)   If the court finds that an agricultural animal has been abandoned or
cruelly treated, the court may prohibit the possession or ownership of any
other agricultural animal by the owner of the agricultural animal if the owner
has exhibited a pattern of abandoning or cruelly treating agricultural animals
as evidenced by previous convictions of violating VA Code §§ 3.2-6504 or 3.2-
6570. In making a determination to prohibit the possession or ownership of
agricultural animals, the court may take into consideration the owner’s mental
and physical condition.
   (K)   Any person who is prohibited from owning or possessing animals
pursuant to subsections (I) or (J) above may petition the court to repeal the
prohibition after two years have elapsed from the date of entry of the court’s
order. The court may, in its discretion, repeal the prohibition if the person
can prove to the satisfaction of the court that the cause for the prohibition
has ceased to exist.
   (L)   When a sale occurs, the proceeds shall first be applied to the costs
of the sale then next to the unreimbursed expenses for the care and provision
of the animal, and the remaining proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the
owner of the animal. If the owner of the animal cannot be found, the proceeds
remaining shall be paid into the Literary Fund.
   (M)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the humane
destruction of a critically injured or ill animal for humane purposes by the
impounding humane investigator, law enforcement officer, animal control officer
or licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§§ 3-34—3-39 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 3-40 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who: overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-
treats, abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain not connected with
bona fide scientific or medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily
beats, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or
herself or to another; deprives any animal of necessary food, drink, shelter or
emergency veterinary treatment; sores any equine for any purpose or administers
drugs or medications to alter or mask such soring for the purpose of sale, show
or exhibition of any kind, unless such administration of drugs or medications
is within the context of a veterinary client-patient relationship and solely
for therapeutic purposes; ropes, lassoes or otherwise obstructs or interferes
with one or more legs of an equine in order to intentionally cause it to trip
or fall for the purpose of engagement in a rodeo, contest, exhibition,
entertainment or sport, unless such actions are in the practice of accepted
animal husbandry or for the purpose of allowing veterinary care; willfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to
any animal; carries or causes to be carried by any vehicle, vessel or otherwise
any animal in a cruel, brutal or inhumane manner, so as to produce torture or
unnecessary suffering; or causes any of the above things, or being the owner of
such animal permits such acts to be done by another is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. In addition to the penalties provided in this subsection (A), the
court may, in its discretion, require any person convicted of a violation of
this subsection (A) to attend an anger management or other appropriate
treatment program or obtain psychiatric or psychological counseling. The court
may impose the costs of such a program or counseling upon the person convicted.
   (B)   Any person who:
      (1)   Tortures, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain not connected
with bona fide scientific or medical experimentation, or cruelly and
unnecessarily beats, maims, mutilates or kills any animal whether belonging to
himself or another;
      (2)   Sores any equine for any purpose or administers drugs or
medications to alter or mask such soring for the purpose of sale, show or
exhibit of any kind, unless such administration of drugs or medications is
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian and solely for therapeutic
purposes;
      (3)   Ropes, lassoes or otherwise obstructs or interferes with one or
more legs of an equine in order to intentionally cause it to trip or fall for
the purpose of engagement in a rodeo, contest, exhibition, entertainment or
sport, unless such actions are in the practice of accepted animal husbandry or
for the purpose of allowing veterinary care;
      (4)   Maliciously deprives any companion animal of necessary food, drink,
shelter or emergency veterinary treatment;
      (5)   Instigates, engages in or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to
any animal set forth in subsections (B)(1) through (B)(4); or
      (6)   Causes any of the actions described in subsections (B)(1) through
(B)(5), or being the owner of such animal permits such acts to be done by
another; and has been within five years convicted of a violation of this
subsection (B) or subsection (A) above, is guilty of a Class 6 felony if the
current violation or any previous violation of this subsection (B) or
subsection (A) above resulted in the death of an animal or the euthanasia of an
animal based on the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian upon
determination that such euthanasia was necessary due to the condition of the
animal, and such condition was a direct result of a violation of this
subsection (B) or subsection (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dehorning
of cattle conducted in a reasonable and customary manner.
   (D)   This section shall not prohibit authorized wildlife management
activities or hunting, fishing or trapping as regulated under other titles of
the state statutes, including VA Code Title 29.1, or to farming activities as
provided under this chapter or regulations adopted hereunder.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to kill a domestic dog or cat for the
purpose of obtaining the hide, fur or pelt of the dog or cat. A violation of
this subsection (E) is a Class 1 misdemeanor. A second or subsequent violation
of this subsection (E) is a Class 6 felony.
   (F)   Any person who: tortures, willfully inflicts inhumane injury or pain
not connected with bona fide scientific or medical experimentation, or cruelly
and unnecessarily beats, maims or mutilates any dog or cat that is a companion
animal, whether belonging to him or her or another; and as a direct result,
causes the death of such dog or cat that is a companion animal, or the
euthanasia of such animal on the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian upon
determination that such euthanasia was necessary due to the condition of the
animal, is guilty of a Class 6 felony.
      (2)   If a dog or cat is attacked on its owner’s property by a dog so as
to cause injury or death, the owner of the injured dog or cat may use all
reasonable and necessary force against the dog at the time of the attack to
protect his or her dog or cat
      (3)   Such owner may be presumed to have taken necessary and appropriate
action to defend his or her dog or cat and shall therefore be presumed not to
have violated this subsection (F). The provisions of this subsection (F) shall
not overrule VA Code §§ 3.2-6540, 3.2-6540.1 or 3.2-6552.
   (G)   Any person convicted of violating this section may be prohibited by
the court from possession or ownership of companion animals.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE VI. MANDATORY STERILIZATION OF DOGS AND CATS ADOPTED FROM RELEASING
AGENCIES
§ 3-41 STERILIZATION OF ADOPTED DOGS AND CATS; ENFORCEMENT; CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   Every new owner of a dog or cat adopted from a releasing agency shall
cause to be sterilized the dog or cat pursuant to the agreement required by
subsection (B)(2) below.
   (B)   A dog or cat shall not be released for adoption from a releasing
agency unless:
      (1)   The animal has already been sterilized; or
      (2)   The individual adopting the animal signs an agreement to have the
animal sterilized by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days of the adoption, if
the animal is sexually mature or within 30 days after the animal reaches six
months of age, if the animal is not sexually mature at the time of adoption.
   (C)   A releasing agency may extend for 30 days the date by which a dog or
cat must be sterilized on presentation of a written report from a veterinarian
stating that the life or health of the adopted animal may be jeopardized by
sterilization. In cases involving extenuating circumstances, the veterinarian
and the releasing agency may negotiate the terms of an extension of the date by
which the animal must be sterilized.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the sterilization of a sexually
immature dog or cat upon the written agreement of the veterinarian, the
releasing agency and the new owner.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the petition of an animal control officer, humane
investigator, the State Veterinarian or a State Veterinarian’s representative
to the district court of the county or city where a violation of this article
occurs, the court may order the new owner to take any steps necessary to comply
with the requirements of this article.
      (2)   This remedy shall be exclusive of and in addition to any civil
penalty that may be imposed under this article.
   (F)   Any person who violates subsections (A) or (B) above shall be subject
to a civil penalty not to exceed $250.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-42 STERILIZATION AGREEMENT.
   Any agreement used by a releasing agency pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6574(B)
shall contain:
   (A)   The date of the agreement;
   (B)   The names, addresses and signatures of the releasing agency and the
new owner;
   (C)   A description of the dog or cat to be adopted;
   (D)   The date by which the dog or cat is required to be sterilized; and
   (E)   A statement printed in conspicuous, bold print, that sterilization of
the dog or cat is required under this article; that a person who violates this
article is subject to a civil penalty; and that the new owner may be compelled
to comply with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-43 STERILIZATION CONFIRMATION; CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   Each new owner who signs a sterilization agreement shall, within seven
days of the sterilization, cause to be delivered or mailed to the releasing
agency written confirmation signed by the veterinarian who performed the
sterilization.
   (B)   The confirmation shall briefly describe the dog or cat: include the
new owner’s name and address; certify that the sterilization was performed: and
specify the date of the procedure. Any person who violates this section shall
be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $150.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-44 NOTIFICATION CONCERNING LOST, STOLEN OR DEAD DOGS OR CATS; CIVIL
PENALTY.
   If an adopted dog or cat is lost or stolen or dies before the animal is
sterilized and before the date by which the dog or cat is required to be
sterilized, the new owner shall, within seven days of the animal’s
disappearance or death, notify the releasing agency of the animal’s
disappearance or death. Any person who violates this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty not to exceed $25.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-45 EXEMPTIONS.
   This article shall not apply to:
   (A)   An owner reclaiming his or her dog or cat from a releasing agency;
   (B)   A releasing agency within a locality that has adopted a more stringent
mandatory sterilization ordinance; and
   (C)   A local governing body that has disposed of an animal by sale or gift
to a federal agency, state-supported institution, agency of the commonwealth,
agency of another state or licensed federal dealer having its principal place
of business located within the commonwealth.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-46 RELEASING AGENCY; FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   A local governing body or releasing agency may charge and collect from the
new owner a fee or deposit before releasing a dog or cat for adoption to ensure
sterilization.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-47 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Any animal control officer, humane investigator, releasing agency, the State
Veterinarian or State Veterinarian’s representative shall be entitled to bring
a civil action for any violation of this article that is subject to a civil
penalty. Any civil penalty assessed pursuant to this article shall be paid into
the treasury of the city or county where such civil action is brought and used
for the purpose of defraying the costs of local animal control, including
efforts to promote sterilization of cats and dogs.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§§ 3-48—3-49 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 3-50 DOGS AND CATS DEEMED PERSONAL PROPERTY; RIGHTS RELATING THERETO.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be deemed personal property and may be the
subject of larceny and malicious or unlawful trespass. Owners, as defined in VA
Code § 3.2-6500, may maintain any action for the killing of any such animals,
or injury thereto, or unlawful detention or use thereof as in the case of other
personal property. The owner of any dog or cat that is injured or killed
contrary to the provisions of this chapter by any person shall be entitled to
recover the value thereof or the damage done thereto in an appropriate action
at law from such person.
   (B)   An animal control officer or other officer finding a stolen dog or
cat, or a dog or cat held or detained contrary to law, shall have authority to
seize and hold such animal pending action before a general district court or
other court. If no such action is instituted within seven days, the animal
control officer or other officer shall deliver the dog or cat to its owner.
   (C)   The presence of a dog or cat on the premises of a person other than
its legal owner shall raise no presumption of theft against the owner, and the
animal control officer may take such animal and notify its legal owner. The
legal owner of the animal shall pay a reasonable charge as the local governing
body by ordinance shall establish for the keep of such animal while in the
possession of the animal control officer.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-51 DOG INJURING OR KILLING OTHER COMPANION ANIMALS.
   The owner of any companion animal that is injured or killed by a dog shall
be entitled to recover damages consistent with the provisions of VA Code § 3.2-
6585 from the owner of such dog in an appropriate action at law if the injury
occurred on the premises of the companion animal’s owner, and the owner of the
offending dog did not have the permission of the companion animal’s owner for
the dog to be on the premises at the time of the attack.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-52 UNLAWFUL ACTS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The following shall be unlawful acts and are Class 4 misdemeanors:
      (1)   For any person to make a false statement in order to secure a dog
license to which he or she is not entitled;
      (2)   For any dog owner to fail to pay any license tax required by this
chapter before February 1 for the year in which it is due. In addition, the
court may order confiscation and the proper disposition of the dog;
      (3)   For any person to fail to obey §
3-3 of this chapter;
      (4)   For any owner to fail to dispose of the body of his or her
companion animals in accordance with §
3-25 of this chapter;
      (5)   For the owner of any dog or cat with a contagious or infectious
disease to permit such dog or cat to stray from his or her premises, if such
disease is known to the owner;
      (6)   For any person to conceal or harbor any dog or cat on which any
required license tax has not been paid;
      (7)   For any person, except the owner or custodian, to remove a legally
acquired license tag from a dog or cat without the permission of the owner or
custodian; and
      (8)   Any other violation of this chapter for which a specific penalty is
not provided.
   (B)   It is a Class 1 misdemeanor for any person to impersonate a humane
investigator.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-53 INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE WITH A GUIDE OR LEADER DOG; PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to, without just cause, willfully impede
or interfere with the duties performed by a dog if the person knows or has
reason to believe the dog is a guide or leader dog. A violation of this
subsection (A) is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to, without just cause, willfully injure a
dog if the person knows or has reason to believe the dog is a guide or leader
dog. A violation of this subsection (B) is a Class 1 misdemeanor. GUIDE OR
LEADER DOG means a dog that serves as a dog guide for a blind person as defined
in VA Code § 51.5-60 or for a person with a visual disability, serves as a
listener for a deaf or hard-of-hearing person as defined in VA Code § 51.5-111,
or provides support or assistance for a physically disabled or handicapped
person.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-54 SELLING GARMENTS CONTAINING DOG OR CAT FUR PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell a garment containing the hide, fur or
pelt that he or she knows to be that of a domestic dog or cat. A violation of
this section is punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-55 JURISDICTION OF GENERAL DISTRICT COURTS; RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Unless otherwise provided, the provisions of this article may be enforced by
any general district court in cities or counties wherein the offense is
committed, or the offender or owner may be found. Every such offender shall
have the right of appeal to the appropriate circuit court.
(Ord. 16-001, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 3-56 BOUNTY FOR COYOTES.
   Effective immediately upon adoption of this section, a bounty shall be paid
by the county for any female coyote killed within the county boundaries. The
amount of the bounty payment shall be $50. Payment of the bounty will be
contingent upon the appropriation of funds by the Board of Supervisors,
execution of an affidavit that the animal was killed in the county and
verification of the dead animal by the animal control office.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2005; Res. 05-056, passed 11-17-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 15.2-926.1
CHAPTER 4: AVIATION
Section
Article I. Airport Authority
   
4-1   Airport Authority established
   
4-2   Membership in authority
   
4-3   Powers and duties
   
4-4   Compensation of directors
   
4-5—4-10      Reserved
Article II. County Airport
   
4-11   Definition
   
4-12   Violations of article
   
4-13   Operating hours; generally
   
4-14   Operating hours; entering property after hours
   
4-15   Speed limit for motor vehicles
   
4-16   Motor vehicles prohibited in certain areas
Statutory reference:
   Aviation, see VA Code §§ 5.1-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 4-1 AIRPORT AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 5.1-31, 1950, as amended, the Board of Supervisors
resolve that there be created a County Airport Authority and said Authority
shall be vested with all of the powers, duties, responsibilities and authority
of an independent board, commission or agency established in accordance with VA
Code Title 5.1, 1950, as amended, together with all proper powers and authority
granted by the general law of the commonwealth applicable to independent
commissions. The body shall be officially titled the Lee County Airport
Authority.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2020)
§ 4-2 MEMBERSHIP IN AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The governing body of the Airport Authority shall be a Board of
Directors consisting of five members appointed by the Board of Supervisors, one
from each election district of the county. The Board of Supervisors may remove
members from the Authority at any time.
   (B)   The following qualifications shall be given paramount consideration in
selecting members for appointment to the Authority: experience and interest in
aviation and related areas; some background or training in business endeavors;
a commitment to increased economic, commercial and industrial development in
the county; and the ability to work well with members of the public, officials
of state and federal agencies, and the local business community of the county.
   (C)   The term of each Director shall be for four years, except for an
initial appointment or in the case of an appointment to fill out an unexpired
term, in which case the appointment shall be only for the duration of the
unexpired term. Initial appointments to the Board of Directors shall be for
staggered terms, with two members being appointed for four years, one for three
years, one for two years and one for one one-year term. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for four-year terms of office.
   (D)   The Authority shall adopt by-laws for the conduct of its business and
meetings.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2020)
§ 4-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The responsibility of the Airport Authority is to acquire, establish,
construct, enlarge, improve, equip, maintain, operate and regulate the use of
the county airport, its structures, air navigation facilities and other
property incident thereto, and is empowered, as fully and completely as
provided by the VA Code Title 5.1, as amended, together with all applicable
powers and authority granted by the general law of the commonwealth to fulfill
such functions.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2020)
§ 4-4 COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS.
   The compensation of the members of the Board of Directors of the Airport
Authority shall be established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors for
the county.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2020)
§§ 4-5—4-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. COUNTY AIRPORT
§ 4-11 DEFINITION.
   As used in this article, AIRPORT shall mean the property known and operated
as the county airport.
(Prior Code, § 4-11) (Ord. passed 6-29-1966)
§ 4-12 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, a violation of any provision of this
article shall constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-12)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 2 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§ 4-13 OPERATING HOURS; GENERALLY.
   The airport shall be open and closed to the general public at such hours as
may be designated by the Airport Commission. The Commission shall designate
such hours by posting notice of same at the entrance to the airport property.
(Prior Code, § 4-13) (Ord. passed 6-29-1966)
§ 4-14 OPERATING HOURS; ENTERING PROPERTY AFTER HOURS.
   No person shall go upon the airport property when the same is closed to the
public, unless such person is authorized by the Airport Commission or by
temporary written permission of an individual member of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-14) (Ord. passed 6-29-1966)
§ 4-15 SPEED LIMIT FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle designed for highway travel upon the
airport property at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 4-15) (Ord. passed 6-29-1966)
§ 4-16 MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle designed for highway travel upon the
airport runway, taxiway, plane parking apron and hanger area without special
written permission of the Airport Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-16) (Ord. passed 6-29-1966)
Statutory reference:
   County airports, see VA Code §§ 5.1-31 et seq.
CHAPTER 5: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
5-1   Building inspection department and building official generally
   
5-2   Removal or repair of unsafe or dangerous structures
   
5-3—5-11      Reserved
Article II. Building Code
   
5-12   Violations of article
   
5-13   Adopted; application
   
5-14   Board of Appeals
   
5-15   Fees
   
5-16   Fire limits
Cross-reference:
   Erosion and sediment control, see
Chapter 7
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 8
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 5-1 BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT AND BUILDING OFFICIAL GENERALLY.
   There is hereby established a Building Inspection Department whose
responsibility it is to enforce the provisions of the Building Code adopted by
§
5-13. The Department shall have a Building Official who shall be appointed by
the Board of Supervisors. The Building Official, in concurrence with the County
Administrator, shall be responsible for the organization and daily operation of
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
Cross-reference:
   Disclosure statement required of Building Official, see §
2-1
§ 5-2 REMOVAL OR REPAIR OF UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Owners of property within the county shall, whenever prescribed by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors, remove, repair or secure any building,
wall or other structure which might endanger the public health or safety or
other residents of the county.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors, through its own agents or employees,
may remove, repair or secure any building, wall or any other structure which
might endanger the public health or safety of other residents of the county
when the owner and lien holder of such property, after reasonable notice and a
reasonable time to do so, has failed to remove, repair or secure such building,
wall or other structure. For the purposes of this section, reasonable notice
shall include a written notice mailed by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the property owner and
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the county.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the county to remove, repair or secure
any building, wall or other structure for at least 30 days following the later
of the return of the receipt or newspaper publication, except the county may
take action to prevent unauthorized access to the building within seven days of
such notice that the structure is deemed to pose a significant threat to public
safety and such fact is stated in the notice.
   (C)   If the Board of Supervisors, through its own agents or employees,
removes, repairs or secures any building, wall or any other structure after
complying with the notice provisions of this section, the cost or expenses
thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the owners of such property and may
be collected by the county as taxes and levies are collected.
   (D)   Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of any
such property shall have been assessed and which remains unpaid shall
constitute a lien against such property ranking on a parity with liens for
unpaid local taxes and enforceable in the same manner as provided in VA Code
Title 58.1, Chapter 39, Articles 3 and 4.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies set forth above, any owner of such
property in violation of subsections (A) and (B) above who fails to take the
action required in the notice within the 30-day period shall be subject to a
civil penalty of $1,000.
   (F)   This section is adopted pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-906, 1950, as
amended.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2012)
§§ 5-3—5-11 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. BUILDING CODE
§ 5-12 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   A violation of any provision of this article, including any provision of the
Building Code adopted herein, shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 5-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions as to Building Code violations, see VA Code § 36-106
§ 5-13 ADOPTED; APPLICATION.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building
Code, consisting of Volume I, New Construction Code, and Volume II, Building
Maintenance Code, the provisions of which are adopted and shall control all
matters concerning the construction, alternation, addition, repair, removal,
demolition, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and all other functions
which pertain to the installation of plumbing, electrical, mechanical and
similar systems vital to all buildings and structures and their equipment, as
defined by the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code. Such provisions shall
apply to existing and proposed buildings or structures in the county.
(Prior Code, § 5-13) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, see VA Code §§ 36-97 et seq.
§ 5-14 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   There is hereby established a local Board of Building Code Appeals, whose
composition, duties and responsibilities shall be as prescribed in the Building
Code adopted in this article. Compensation for members of the Board shall be at
the rate of $20 per day.
(Prior Code, § 5-14) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Appeals required, see VA Code § 36-105
§ 5-15 FEES.
   The fees for permits, inspections, certificates plan review and other
services pursuant to the Building Code adopted in this article shall be as
prescribed, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. No
fees will be charged for inspections on buildings owned by the county if work
is done by county employees.
(Prior Code, § 5-15) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974; Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prescribe fees for administration and enforcement of Building
Code, see VA Code § 36-105
§ 5-16 FIRE LIMITS.
   All areas of the county shall be designated as outside fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-16) (Ord. passed 9-4-1974)
CHAPTER 6: ELECTIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
6-1—6-10      Reserved
Article II. Election Districts and Precincts
Division 1. Generally
   
6-11   Established
   
6-12   Boundaries generally
   
6-13—6-17   Reserved
Division 2. Districts
   
6-18   Designated; population
   
6-19   Boundaries; District Number 1
   
6-20   Boundaries; District Number 2
   
6-21   Boundaries; District Number 3
   
6-22   Boundaries; District Number 4
   
6-23   Boundaries; District Number 5
   
6-24—6-29   Reserved.
Division 3. Precincts and Polling Places
   
6-30   Designated; boundaries in Election District Number 1
   
6-31   Designated; boundaries in Election District Number 2
   
6-32   Designated; boundaries in Election District Number 3
   
6-33   Designated; boundaries in Election District Number 4
   
6-34   Designated; boundaries in Election District Number 5
   
6-35   Central absentee voter precinct
   
6-36   Polling places
Statutory reference:
   Elections, see VA Code Title 24.2
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 6-1—6-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. ELECTION DISTRICTS AND PRECINCTS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-11 ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in VA Code §§ 15.2-1211 and 24.2-304.1
through 24.2-310.1, as amended, the election districts, precincts and their
respective polling places for the county are hereby created and established as
set forth in this article.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2011)
§ 6-12 BOUNDARIES GENERALLY.
   The boundaries of the election districts and precincts established in this
article are as set forth in this article and on the maps attached to the
ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2011)
§§ 6-13—6-17 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. DISTRICTS
§ 6-18 DESIGNATED; POPULATION.
   The election districts and their calculated populations are set forth as
follows:
   (A)   Election District Number 1, with a total population of 4,656, includes
Elydale, Ewing and Rose Hill;
   (B)   Election District Number 2, with a total population of 4,922, includes
Blackwater, Flatwoods, North Jonesville and South Jonesville;
   (C)   Election District Number 3, with a total population of 4,865, includes
Ben Hur, West Pennington and Woodway;
   (D)   Election District Number 4, with a total population of 4,574, includes
Stickleyville, Jasper, Seminary and Dryden; and
   (E)   Election District Number 5, with a total population of 4,832, includes
St. Charles, Pennington, Robbins Chapel and Keokee.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-19 BOUNDARIES; DISTRICT NUMBER 1.
   The boundaries of Election District Number 1 are as follows: Beginning at a
point, said point being known as Tri-State Peak (Kentucky, Tennessee and
Virginia) and also defining the western-most point in the county’s boundary;
thence northeast from said point following the top of Cumberland Mountain and
the county and Virginia - Tennessee state boundary approximately 25.8 miles to
the Hagan Tunnel on the CSXT Railway; thence leaving Cumberland Mountain, and
the county and Virginia - Kentucky state boundary, in a southerly direction
with said tunnel, and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, to the CSXT
Railway main line; thence east along the railroad, and said dividing line,
approximately 0.19 mile to an unimproved road; thence southerly along the road,
and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, approximately 0.30 mile to
Virginia State Route 621; thence west along Route 621 to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 789 at Hagan; thence continuing with Route 621, and said
dividing line, in a southerly direction to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 664; thence southerly and continuing with Virginia State Route 664, and
the dividing line between Election Districts 1 and 2, to its intersection with
U.S. Highway 58 at Smiley; thence continuing southerly with Virginia State
Route 664, and said dividing line, approximately 2.35 miles to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 658; thence continuing southerly following Virginia
State Route 664, and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, 0.20 mile to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 676; thence south and west
continuing with Virginia State Route 664, and said dividing line, 0.18 mile to
its intersection again with Virginia State Route 676; thence in a southwesterly
direction with Route 664, and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line,
1.28 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route 850; thence southwest
with Route 664, and said dividing line, 0.96 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 855 at Wilson Hill; thence leaving Route 664 and
continuing with Route 855 and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line,
southerly 0.98 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route 661; thence
westerly with Route 661, and said dividing line, 1.14 miles to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 667 and the Rose Hill - White Shoals Magisterial
District line; thence southeast with the Rose Hill - White Shoals Magisterial
District line, and the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, to the county,
Virginia - Tennessee state line; thence west with said county, Virginia -
Tennessee state line, approximately 21.625 miles to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-20 BOUNDARIES; DISTRICT NUMBER 2.
   The boundaries of Election District Number 2 are as follows: Beginning at a
point, said point being the intersection of Hagan Tunnel, the top of Cumberland
Mountain and the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line; thence north and
east with the top of Cumberland Mountain approximately 4.16 miles to the
Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial District line; thence with said line and
the Election District 2 and 3 dividing line southeasterly approximately 0.50
mile to Virginia State Route 818; thence with Route 818, the Election Districts
2 and 3 dividing line and said Magisterial line 0.20 mile to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 621; thence continuing southeast with Route 621, and
said dividing line, 0.10 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route
656; thence with Route 656, the Election Districts 2 and 3 dividing line, and
the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line 0.50 mile to the intersection of
Virginia State Route 659; thence leaving the Magisterial boundary and
continuing easterly with Route 659 and the Election Districts 2 and 3 dividing
line 1.69 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route 652; thence
continuing eastward along Route 659, and the Election Districts 2 and 3
boundary, approximately 3.45 miles to its intersection with U.S. Alternate 58;
thence west and then south with U.S. Alternate 58, and said boundary, 2.63
miles to the intersection with U.S. Highway 58 in the Town of Jonesville;
thence easterly, with U.S. Highway 58, and said boundary, 0.63 mile to Virginia
State Route 70; thence continuing east with U.S. Highway 58 and the Election
District 2 and 3 dividing line, 0.93 mile to Virginia State Route 641; thence
east with U.S. 58, and the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, approximately
0.57 mile to its intersection again with Virginia State Route 641; thence
leaving U.S. 58 and proceeding south with Route 641, and the Election Districts
2 and 3 boundary approximately 1.50 miles to the intersection with Virginia
State Route 783; thence easterly with Route 783 and the Election Districts 2
and 3 boundary, a short distance to a minor tributary of Powell River, its
source being Cheek Spring; thence with said tributary and the Election
Districts 2 and 3 boundary a short distance to its mouth in Powell River, a
corner common to Districts 2, 3 and 4; thence west with the meanders of Powell
River, and the Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary, to Virginia State Route
739; thence east and south following Route 739 and the Election District 2 and
4 boundary, approximately 2.05 miles to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 617; thence west following Route 617 and the Election District 2 and 4
boundary, approximately 0.39 mile to an unimproved road located 0.17 mile east
of Virginia State Route 70; thence south following said unimproved road and the
Election District 2 and 4 boundary, approximately 0.25 mile to an unnamed
stream; thence continuing south following said stream and the Election District
2 and 4 boundary, approximately 0.36 mile to its mouth in Wallen Creek; thence
west with Wallen Creek, and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary,
approximately 1.5 miles to Virginia State Route 70; thence south with Route 70,
and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, approximately 0.08 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 612; thence east 0.23 mile with Route
70, and said boundary, to its intersection again with Virginia State 612;
thence east following Route 612, and the Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary,
approximately 0.57 mile to an unnamed tributary of Wallen Creek; thence south
with the tributary’s meanders, and said boundary, to the top of Powell
Mountain; thence north and east along the top of Powell Mountain, and the
Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary, approximately 6.68 miles to the county -
Scott County boundary line; thence southwest along said line approximately 6.03
miles to the county and Virginia - Tennessee boundary line near Dona; thence
west with said boundary approximately 16.75 miles to the Rose Hill - White
Shoals Magisterial District line and the southeast corner of Election District
1 southwest of Beech Grove Church; thence northwest with said Rose Hill - White
Shoals Magisterial District line, and the line separating Election District 1
and Election District 2, to the intersection of Virginia State Routes 661 and
667; thence easterly with Virginia State Route 661, 1.14 miles to the
intersection of Virginia State Route 855; thence northerly with Route 855 and
the line dividing Election District 1 and 2, 0.98 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 664; thence northerly with Route 664, and said dividing
line, 0.96 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 850; thence
continuing northerly with Route 664, and said dividing line, 1.28 miles to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 676; thence continuing northerly with
Route 664 and said dividing line, 0.18 mile to its intersection again with
Route 676; thence continuing northerly with Route 664, and the line dividing
Election District 1 and 2, 2.35 miles to its intersection with U.S. Highway 58
at Smiley; thence northerly with Virginia State Route 621, and the line
dividing Election Districts 1 and 2, 0.80 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 789 near Hagan; thence continuing east with Route 621, and
the line dividing Election Districts 1 and 2, 0.15 mile to its intersection
with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with said road, and the line
dividing Election Districts 1 and 2, 0.30 mile to its end at the CSXT Railway
main line; thence west with said railroad, and the line dividing Election
Districts 1 and 2, approximately 0.19 mile to its crossing of the Hagan Tunnel;
thence north with the line of said tunnel, and the line dividing Election
Districts 1 and 2, approximately 0.50 mile to the point it crosses under the
top of Cumberland Mountain and the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-21 BOUNDARIES; DISTRICT NUMBER 3.
   The boundaries of Election District Number 3 are as follows: Beginning at a
point, said point being the intersection of the ridge lines of the Cumberland
Mountain and Stone Mountain due north of Ocoonita; thence with the top of the
ridge of Stone Mountain, and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line east
3.40 miles to a point on said ridge 0.23 mile northwest of the source of an
unnamed tributary of Poor Valley Creek north of Pennington Gap; thence
southeast with the tributary to its mouth in Poor Valley Creek north of
Virginia State Route 621; thence southeast a short distance to Virginia State
Route 621 and the Jonesville - Rocky Station Magisterial line; thence east with
Route 621, the line dividing Election District 3 and 5, and said Magisterial
line approximately 1.15 miles to the point where the Jonesville - Rocky Station
Magisterial line leaves Route 621; thence south, with said Magisterial boundary
line and District 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.40 mile to the eastern perimeter of
U.S. Bureau of the Census Block #511059503001028; thence southeasterly with
said perimeter to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-1103 in
Pennington Gap, thence east with Route T-1103, and the line dividing Election
District 3 and 5, 0.09 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-
1128; thence south with Route T-1128, and said dividing line, 0.06 mile to its
intersection with U.S. Alternate 58 (West Morgan Ave.) in Pennington Gap;
thence east with U.S. 58 Alternate, West Morgan Ave., and said dividing line,
1.09 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-640; thence south
with Route T-640, and said dividing line, 0.16 mile south to its intersection
with Virginia State Route T-1129; thence continuing with T-640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.04 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route T-1117; thence continuing southwest with Route T-640, and
said dividing line, 0.25 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-
123; thence continuing southwest with Route T-640, and the Election Districts 3
and 5 dividing line, 0.11 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-
1106; thence continuing southwest 0.06 mile along Route T-640, and said
dividing line, to the south corporate boundary line of the Town of Pennington
Gap; thence continuing as Virginia State Route 640, and the Election Districts
3 and 5 dividing line, south 0.39 mile to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 1122; thence continuing south with Route 640, and said dividing line,
0.20 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 641; thence southwest
continuing with Route 640, and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line,
0.70 mile to its intersection again with Virginia State Route 641; thence
continuing with Route 640, and said dividing line, southeast 0.75 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 639; thence continuing with Route 640,
and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, south and west 1.39 miles to
a bridge crossing Shafer Creek; thence southeast with said Shafer Creek, and
said dividing line, to its mouth in Powell River; thence east with the meanders
of said Powell River, and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line,
approximately 3.6 miles to the U.S. 421 bridge at Woodway; thence continuing
east with Powell River and its meanders, and the dividing line between Election
Districts 3, 4 and 5, approximately 6.7 miles to the Yokum - Rocky Station
Magisterial District line; thence following same, and the Election Districts 3
and 4 dividing line, southeast to the intersection of Virginia State Route 642
and 743; thence southeast with Route 642, the aforementioned Magisterial
District line, and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, 0.06 mile to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 798; thence southeast 0.30 mile with
Route 798, and said dividing line, to its terminus; thence west following an
unnamed and unimproved road, and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line,
0.68 mile to its end at an unnamed tributary of the Powell River; thence south
following the creek to the top of Wallen Ridge; thence southwest along the top
of said ridge, and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, to Buzzard
Roost; thence leaving said ridge and proceeding east along Fox Branch, and said
dividing line, to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence
with said road, and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, south and
east approximately 2.25 miles to its intersection with Old U.S. 58-421
northwest of Stickleyville; thence southwest with Old U.S. 58-421 and said
dividing line approximately 0.57 mile to the top of Wallen Ridge; thence
southwest with the top of Wallen Ridge, and the Election Districts 3 and 4
dividing line, southwest approximately 5.04 miles to Slagle Gap; thence leaving
the top of Wallen Ridge and following an unnamed and unimproved road, and the
Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, southwest approximately 0.76 mile to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 618 and the Rocky Station -
Jonesville Magisterial District line; thence with said Magisterial District
line, and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, northwest approximately
1.57 miles to its intersection with Powell River approximately 0.20 mile
southwest of the Poteet Bridge; thence south and west with the Powell River,
its meanders and the Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, approximately
4.16 miles to the mouth of an unnamed tributary of Powell River flowing from
Cheek Spring and a corner common to Election Districts 2, 3 and 4; thence north
with said tributary and the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 783; thence westerly a short distance
with Route 783 and the Election District 2 and 3 boundary to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 641; thence northwesterly with Route 641 and said
Election District boundary 1.50 miles to its intersection with U.S. Highway 58;
thence continuing west with U.S. Highway 58, and the dividing line between
Election Districts 2 and 3, 0.57 mile to the intersection of Virginia State
Route 641; thence west with U.S. Highway 58, and said dividing line, 0.93 mile
to Virginia State Route 70; thence continuing west on U.S. Highway 58, and the
line dividing Election 2 and 3, 0.63 mile to the intersection of U.S. Highway
58 and 58 Alternate in Jonesville; thence north and east with U.S Highway 58
Alternate, and said dividing line, 2.63 miles to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 659; thence with Route 659 and the dividing line between Election
Districts 2 and 3 westward approximately 3.45 miles to its intersection with
Route 652; thence continuing with Route 659, and the Election Districts 2 and 3
boundary, 1.69 miles to the intersection of Virginia State Route 656 and the
Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line; thence northwesterly with Route
656, the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary and said Magisterial line 0.50
mile to the intersection of Virginia State Route 621; thence northwest with
Route 621, the Election District boundary and said Magisterial line 0.10 mile
to the intersection of Virginia State Route 818; thence northerly with Route
818, the Election District 2 and 3 boundary, and said Magisterial line 0.20
mile to its end; thence continuing northerly with the Election District and
Magisterial line approximately 0.50 mile to the top of Cumberland Mountain;
thence easterly with the top of the ridge of said Cumberland Mountain, the
county boundary and the Kentucky - Virginia state line, approximately 5.00
miles to the intersection of the ridge lines of Cumberland and Stone Mountain
and the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-22 BOUNDARIES; DISTRICT NUMBER 4.
   The boundaries of Election District Number 4 are as follows: Beginning at a
point, said point being 1.25 miles southeast of U.S. 23, on the top of the
ridge of Powell Mountain, and a point common with boundaries of the two
adjacent counties of Wise and Scott; thence southwest with top of the ridge of
Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County boundary to Bowling Knob; thence
continuing with the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the county - Scott
County boundary southwest to the butt of Powell Mountain and Cliff Mountain
near Jasper; thence continuing southwest with said county - Scott County
boundary crossing U.S. Highway 23, south of Jasper, to the top of the ridge of
Powell Mountain; thence continuing south and west with the top of the ridge of
Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County boundary, to the point where U.S.
58-421 crosses Powell Mountain; thence continuing with the top of the ridge of
Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County line 4.75 miles to a point where
the county - Scott County line leaves Powell Mountain northwest of Virginia
State Route 604 near Pleasant View Church; thence continuing south and west
along the top of Powell Mountain and the line of Election Districts 2 and 4
approximately 6.68 miles to an unnamed tributary of Wallen Creek; thence north
with said tributary’s meanders and said District 2 and 4 boundary to its
intersection Virginia State Route 612; thence west following Route 612 and the
Election District 2 and 4 boundary approximately 0.57 mile to Virginia State
Route 70; thence west with Route 70 and said Election District 2 and 4 boundary
0.23 mile to its intersection again with Route 612; thence north continuing
with Route 70 and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary approximately 0.08
mile to its intersection with Wallen Creek; thence east with Wallen Creek and
the Election District 2 and 4 boundary approximately 1.5 miles to the mouth of
an unnamed stream; thence north following said stream and the Election District
2 and 4 boundary approximately 0.36 mile to its headwaters near an unimproved
road; thence north following said unimproved road and the Election District 2
and 4 boundary approximately 0.25 mile to its intersection with Virginia Route
617; thence east following Route 617 and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary
approximately 0.39 mile to Virginia State Route 739; thence northwest following
Route 739 and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary approximately 2.05 miles
to Powell River; thence north and east following the Powell River, its
meanders, and the Election District 2 and 4 boundary easterly to the mouth of
an unnamed tributary of Powell River, its source being Cheek Spring and a
corner to Election District 2, 3 and 4, 4.30 miles to a point 0.20 mile
southwest of the Poteet Bridge in the Rocky Station - Jonesville Magisterial
District line; thence southeast with said line, and the dividing line between
Districts 3 and 4, 1.57 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route
618; thence northeast following an unnamed and unimproved road, and said
dividing line, to the top of Wallen Ridge at Slagle Gap; thence with the top of
Wallen Ridge, and the dividing line between Election Districts 3 and 4, 5.04
miles to a point where the top of said ridge intersects Old U.S. 58-421; thence
with Old U.S. 58-421 and said dividing line east approximately 0.57 mile to its
intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with said road, and
the dividing line between Election Districts 3 and 4, 2.25 miles to its
intersection with Fox Branch; thence with Fox Branch, and said dividing line,
west to the top of Wallen Ridge at Buzzard Roost; thence northeast along the
top of said ridge, and the Election District 3 and 4 dividing line,
approximately 0.25 mile to an unnamed tributary of the Powell River; thence
with the tributary, and said dividing line, north to its intersection with an
unnamed and unimproved road approximately 0.68 mile west of the end of Virginia
State Route 798; thence with Route 798, and said dividing line, northwest to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 642 and the Yokum - Rocky Station
Magisterial District line; thence northwest with Route 642, said Magisterial
District line and the Election District 3 and 4 dividing line, 0.06 mile to the
intersection of Virginia State Route 743; thence continuing northwest with
Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial District line, and said dividing line, to the
Powell River; thence west with the Powell River, its meanders, and the Election
District 3 and 4 dividing line, approximately 3.90 miles to the intersection of
an unnamed and unimproved road, an extension of Virginia State Route 861 and a
corner to Election Districts 3, 4 and 5; thence with said road and the line
dividing Election District 4 and 5 east and north approximately 0.66 mile to
the end of Route 861; thence with Route 861 and said dividing line 0.22 mile to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 630; thence west with Route 630 and
the Election District 4 and 5 dividing line 0.57 mile to a minor stream flowing
into a sink; thence northeast with the stream and said dividing line to its
source at the top of Big Hill Ridge; thence crossing the ridge and with the
dividing line between Election Districts 4 and 5 northeast approximately 0.20
mile to the source of an unnamed stream; thence north and west with the stream
and said dividing line to the CSXT Railroad; thence southeast with same and the
dividing line between Election Districts 4 and 5 approximately 0.30 mile to the
U.S. 58 Alternate bridge crossing the railroad; thence with U.S. 58 Alternate,
and said dividing line, 0.38 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route
629; thence continuing with U.S. 58 Alternate, and the Election District 4 and
5 dividing line, west a short distance to Virginia Route 767; thence north
following Route 767 and the line dividing Election District 4 and 5
approximately 0.66 mile to the intersection of Routes 621 and 767 at the Yokum
- Rocky Station Magisterial District line; thence with said Magisterial
District line, and the Election District 4 and 5 dividing line, northwest
approximately 0.75 mile to the top of Stone Mountain west of Dalton Gap; thence
east with the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain, and the Election District 4
and 5 boundary, approximately 4.25 miles to the Old Olinger Lookout Tower;
thence northeast with Stone Mountain, and said dividing line, approximately
4.73 miles to the county - Wise County boundary northwest of High Butte; thence
southeast approximately 5.50 miles with the county - Wise County boundary
crossing the CSXT Railroad, Powell River, U.S. 58 Alternate, U.S. 23 and the
Southern Railroad to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-23 BOUNDARIES; DISTRICT NUMBER 5.
   The boundaries of Election District Number 5 are as follows: Beginning at a
point, said point being the intersection of the ridge lines of the Cumberland
Mountain and Stone Mountain due north of Ocoonita, and also being a common
corner with Election District 3 and the Virginia - Kentucky state line; thence
north and east with said state line, the Harlan County - county line and
Cumberland Mountain crossing U.S. 421, approximately 8.00 miles to the top of
the ridge of Little Black Mountain northwest of Dominion; thence with said
ridge, the Virginia - Kentucky state line, and the county - Harlan County line
approximately 16.00 miles to the northern-most corner of the county
intersecting the county - Wise County boundary line; thence with said boundary
southeast approximately 5.00 miles to the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain
northwest of High Butte; thence southwest with said ridge and the Election
Districts 4 and 5 dividing line approximately 4.73 miles to the Old Olinger
Lookout Tower; thence southwest, continuing with the top of the ridge of Stone
Mountain, approximately 4.25 miles to the Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial
line and point common to Election Districts 4 and 5; thence continuing with
said Magisterial District line, and the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing
line, approximately 0.75 mile to the intersection of Virginia State Routes 621
and 767; thence with Virginia State Route 767, and the Election District 4 and
5 dividing line, south approximately 0.66 mile to its intersection with U.S.
Alternate 58; thence east with U.S. Alternate 58, and the Election District 4
and 5 dividing line, a short distance to the intersection with Virginia State
Route 629; thence continuing with U.S. 58 Alternate, and the Election Districts
4 and 5 dividing line, approximately 0.38 mile to the U.S. 58 Alternate bridge
crossing the CSXT railroad; thence northwest with the CSXT railroad and the
line dividing Election Districts 4 and 5 approximately 0.30 mile to its
intersection with an unnamed stream; thence with said stream, and the Election
Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, to its source at the top of Big Hill Ridge;
thence west crossing the ridge, and with the Election Districts 4 and 5
dividing line, to the source of an unnamed stream; thence with same and said
dividing line to its intersection with Virginia State Route 630; thence with
Route 630, and the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, approximately 0.57
mile to the intersection of Virginia State Route 861; thence south with Route
861, and the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, 0.22 mile to its end in
an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with said road, and the Election
Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, south and west approximately 0.66 mile to the
Powell River and a corner to Election Districts 3, 4 and 5; thence with Powell
River, its meanders, and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line west
approximately 2.8 miles to the U.S. 421 bridge at Woodway; thence west
continuing with Powell River, its meanders and the Election Districts 3 and 5
dividing line, approximately 3.6 miles to the mouth of Shafer Creek; thence
west with same and the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, to its
crossing of Virginia State Route 640; thence northeast with Route 640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 1.39 miles to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 639; thence continuing with Route 640, and the Election
Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, north 0.75 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 641; thence continuing north with Route 640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.70 mile to its intersection again
with Route 641; thence continuing north with Route 640, and the Election
Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.20 mile to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 1122, thence continuing north with Route 640, and the Election
Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.39 mile to the south corporate boundary of
Pennington Gap; thence continuing with Route 640 as T-640, and the Election
Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, 0.06 mile north to the intersection with
Virginia State Route T-1106; thence continuing with Route T-640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, northeast 0.11 mile to the
intersection of Virginia State Route T-1123; thence continuing with Route T-
640, and said dividing line, northeast 0.25 mile to the intersection of
Virginia State Route T-1117; thence continuing with Route T-640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, north 0.04 mile to the intersection
of Virginia State Route T-1129; thence continuing north with Route T-640, and
said dividing line, 0.16 mile to U.S. 58 Alternate (West Morgan Ave.); thence
with U.S. 58 Alternate (West Morgan Ave.), and the Election District 3 and 5
dividing line, 1.09 miles to the intersection of U.S. 58 Alternate and Virginia
State Route T-1128; thence north with Virginia State Route T-1128, and said
dividing line, 0.06 mile, to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-1103;
thence west with Route T-1103, and said dividing line, 0.09 mile to its
intersection with the eastern perimeter of U.S. Bureau of the Census Block
#5511059503001028; thence northwesterly with said perimeter, and the Election
District 3 and 5 dividing line, to its intersection with the Jonesville - Rocky
Station Magisterial line; thence north with said magisterial boundary, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, to Virginia State Route 621; thence
continuing west with Route 621 and said Election District and Magisterial line
approximately 1.15 miles to a point just south of the mouth of an unnamed
tributary of Poor Valley Creek; thence leaving the Magisterial line and Route
621, north a short distance to the mouth of the tributary; thence with said
tributary north to its source 0.23 mile southeast of the ridge of Stone
Mountain; thence northwest 0.23 mile to the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain;
thence west with the ridge of Stone Mountain, and the Election District 3 and 5
dividing line, approximately 3.4 miles to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-24—6-29 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. PRECINCTS AND POLLING PLACES
§ 6-30 DESIGNATED; BOUNDARIES IN ELECTION DISTRICT NUMBER 1.
   The precincts in Election District Number 1 and their boundaries are as
follows.
   (A)   Elydale Precinct #101. Beginning at a point, said point being known as
Tri-State Peak (Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia) and also defining the
western-most point in the county’s boundary; thence northeast from said point
following the top of Cumberland Mountain and the county and Virginia -
Tennessee state boundary approximately 12.0 miles to Chadwell Gap; thence
southeasterly with Chadwell Gap Trail and the Elydale - Ewing Precinct dividing
line to Virginia State Route 688; thence with Route 688 and said dividing line
southwest to its intersection with Virginia State Route 690; thence southerly
with Route 690 and the Elydale - Ewing Precinct line to the intersection of
Route 690 and U.S. 58 at Caylor; thence continuing with U.S. 58 and said line
west to its intersection with State Route 684; thence east with Route 684 and
Elydale - Ewing Precinct line 1.09 miles to its intersection again with Route
690; thence southerly continuing with Route 690 and said precinct line to the
Virginia - Tennessee state line; thence west with said state line approximately
10.0 miles to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Ewing Precinct #102. Beginning at a point on the top of Cumberland
Mountain on the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line at Chadwell Gap, a
corner common to the Elydale and Ewing Precinct; thence northeasterly with said
state line and the top of Cumberland Mountain approximately 5.6 miles to a
point just north of the source of an unnamed tributary of Indian Creek
northwest of Ely Gap; thence southeast with said tributary and the Ewing and
Rose Hill Precinct line to an unnamed and unimproved road parallel to Indian
Creek west of Ely Gap; thence west with the road and said Precinct line
approximately 1.30 miles to its intersection with another unnamed and
unimproved road proceeding south toward U.S. 58; thence southeast with said
road and the Ewing and Rose Hill Precinct line approximately 0.25 mile to its
intersection with a tributary of Indian Creek northeast of the Ewing community;
thence southeast with the tributary and said Precinct line to Indian Creek;
thence continuing southeast with Indian Creek to the abandoned CSXT railroad
right-of-way; thence east with same and said Precinct line a short distance to
an unimproved road; thence south with same and the Ewing - Rose Hill Precinct
line a short distance to U.S. 58; thence west with U.S. 58 and said precinct
line to its intersection with Virginia State Route 744; thence with Route 744
and the Ewing and Rose Hill Precinct Line southerly 3.7 miles to the Virginia -
Tennessee state line; thence west with same approximately 5.0 miles to the
intersection of Virginia State Route 690, a corner common to the Elydale and
Ewing Precinct; thence northerly with said Precinct line following Routes 690,
684, U.S. 58, 688 and Chadwell Gap Trail, to the top of the ridge of Cumberland
Mountain at Chadwell Gap and the point of beginning.
   (C)   Rose Hill Precinct #103. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of Hagan Tunnel on the CSXT Railway, the top of Cumberland
Mountain and the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line; thence leaving
Cumberland Mountain, and the county and Virginia - Kentucky state boundary, in
a southerly direction with said tunnel, the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing
line, and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods precinct line, to the CSXT Railway main
line; thence east along the railroad, and said dividing line, approximately
0.19 mile to an unimproved road; thence southerly along the road, the Election
Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods Precinct line,
approximately 0.30 mile to Virginia State Route 621; thence west along Route
621, and said dividing line, to its intersection with Virginia State Route 789
at Hagan; thence continuing with Route 621, and said dividing line, in a
southerly direction to its intersection with Virginia State Route 664; thence
southerly and continuing with Virginia State Route 664, the dividing line
between Election Districts 1 and 2 and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods precinct line,
to its intersection with U.S. Highway 58 at Smiley; thence continuing southerly
with Virginia State Route 664, and said dividing line, approximately 2.35 miles
to its intersection with Virginia State Route 658; thence continuing southerly
following Virginia State Route 664, the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing
line and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods Precinct line, 0.20 mile to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 676; thence south and west continuing with Virginia
State Route 664, and said dividing line, 0.18 mile to its intersection again
with Virginia State Route 676; thence in a southwesterly direction with Route
664, the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods
Precinct line, 1.28 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route 850;
thence southwest with Route 664, and said dividing line, 0.96 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 855 at Wilson Hill; thence leaving Route
664 and continuing with Route 855, the Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line
and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods precinct line, southerly 0.98 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 661; thence westerly with Route 661, and
said dividing line, 1.14 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route
667 and the Rose Hill - White Shoals Magisterial District line; thence
southeast with the Rose Hill - White Shoals Magisterial District line, the
Election Districts 1 and 2 dividing line, and the Rose Hill - Flatwoods
precinct line, to the county, Virginia - Tennessee state line; thence west with
said county, Virginia - Tennessee state line approximately 6.6 miles to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 744, a corner common to the Ewing and
Rose Hill Precincts; thence northerly with said Precinct line following Route
744 3.7 miles to its intersection with U.S. 58; thence east with U.S. 58, and
the Ewing and Rose Hill precinct line, a short distance to an unnamed and
unimproved road; thence north a short distance with the road and said precinct
line to the abandoned CSXT railroad right-of-way; thence west with same, and
the Ewing - Rose Hill Precinct line, a short distance to Indian Creek; thence
northwest with same, and said Precinct line, a short distance to an unnamed
tributary of Indian Creek; thence with the tributary and the Ewing - Rose Hill
precinct line, northwest to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved
road northeast of Ewing; thence with same northerly approximately 0.75 mile to
its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road running parallel and north
of Indian Creek; thence with the road and the Ewing - Rose Hill precinct line
1.30 miles to its intersection with an unnamed tributary of Indian Creek;
thence with the tributary and said precinct line northwest to the top of the
ridge of Cumberland Mountain northwest of Ely Gap, a corner common to the Ewing
and Rose Hill Precincts; thence with to of said ridge, the county boundary and
the Virginia - Kentucky state line approximately 8.20 miles to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-31 DESIGNATED; BOUNDARIES IN ELECTION DISTRICT NUMBER 2.
   The precincts in Election District Number 2 and their boundaries are as
follows.
   (A)   Blackwater Precinct #201. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial District line and
Powell Mountain on the county and Virginia - Tennessee state line and a corner
common to the Blackwater, Flatwoods and Jonesville precinct; thence northeast
with the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the Blackwater - Jonesville
precinct line, approximately 5.5 miles to the site of the old Hunter Lookout
Tower and the end of the tower access trail; thence easterly with said trail,
and the Blackwater - Jonesville precinct line, to Virginia State Route 70 at
Hunter Gap on the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain; thence north and east
along the top of Powell Mountain, the Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary, and
the Blackwater - Stickleyville Precinct line, approximately 6.68 miles to the
county - Scott County boundary line; thence southwest along said line
approximately 6.03 miles to the county and Virginia - Tennessee boundary line
near Dona; thence west with said boundary, approximately 10.6 miles to the top
of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the point of beginning.
   (B)   Flatwoods Precinct #202. Beginning at a point, said point being at the
top of Cumberland Mountain on the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line, a
corner common to Election District 2 and 3, the Flatwoods and Ben Hur Precinct,
and the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line approximately 0.50 mile
north of the end of Virginia State Route 818; thence southerly with said
District and Magisterial line approximately 0.50 mile to Route 818; thence with
Route 818, the Election Districts 2 and 3 dividing line and said Magisterial
line 0.20 mile to the intersection with Virginia State Route 621; thence
continuing southeast with Route 621, and said dividing line, 0.10 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 656; thence with Route 656, the
Flatwoods - Ben Hur Precinct line, and the Jonesville - White Shoals
Magisterial line 0.50 mile to the intersection of Virginia State Route 659;
thence leaving the Magisterial boundary and continuing easterly with Route 659
and the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct line to its intersection with Sugar Run
Creek; thence leaving Route 659 and proceeding westerly with Sugar Run to its
mouth in Dry Creek; thence south with Dry Creek, the Flatwoods - Jonesville
Precinct line and the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 656; thence continuing south with Route
656, the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line, and the Flatwoods and
Jonesville Precinct line, approximately 3.0 miles to U.S. 58 west of
Jonesville; thence southeast with Route 656, the Jonesville - White Shoals
Magisterial line and the Flatwoods - Jonesville Precinct boundary,
approximately 1.70 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route 662;
thence east 0.15 mile with Route 662, the Magisterial line and said Precinct
line, to its intersection with Virginia State 730; thence south with Route 730
and the Flatwoods - Jonesville Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 616 south of Powell River; thence east a short distance with Route
616, and said Precinct line to Wallen Creek; thence southerly with Wallen
Creek, the Flatwoods - Jonesville Precinct line and the Jonesville - White
Shoals Magisterial line, to Virginia State Route 665; thence southerly with
Route 665, said Precinct line, and the Magisterial line 0.75 mile to Virginia
State Route 612; thence southeast, leaving Route 665, following the Jonesville
- White Shoals Magisterial line and the Flatwoods - Jonesville Precinct line to
the county and Virginia - Tennessee state line; thence west with same
approximately 6.3 miles to the Rose Hill - White Shoals Magisterial line and a
corner common to the Rose Hill and Flatwoods Precinct and Election Districts 1
and 2 boundary; thence with the eastern boundary of the Rose Hill Precinct and
the Election Districts 1 and 2 boundary as previously described, northerly to
the top of the ridge of Cumberland Mountain at Hagan Tunnel; thence with said
Mountain and the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line north and east
approximately 4.16 miles to the point of beginning.
   (C)   Jonesville Precinct #203. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of Virginia State Route 656 and Dry Creek 0.38 mile south of the
mouth of Sugar Run and also being a corner common to Election District 2 and 3
and the Flatwoods, Ben Hur and Jonesville Precincts; thence leaving Route 656
and proceeding north along Dry Creek and said boundary to the mouth of Sugar
Run; thence with Sugar Run, the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary line, and
the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct line, easterly to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 659; thence leaving Sugar Run and continuing easterly with
Route 659, and said boundary and Precinct line, to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 652; thence continuing eastward along Route 659, the
Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, and the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct
line, approximately 3.45 miles to its intersection with U.S. 58 Alternate;
thence west and then south with U.S. Alternate 58, and said boundary, 2.63
miles to the intersection with U.S. Highway 58 at the corner of Park and Main
Streets in Jonesville; thence continuing east with U.S. 58, and the Jonesville
- Ben Hur Precinct line, to the intersection of Virginia State Route 70; thence
continuing east with U.S. 58, and the aforesaid Precinct line; leaving the Town
of Jonesville, to the intersection of Virginia State Route 641, thence
continuing east with U.S. 58, the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, and the
Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct lines, approximately 0.57 mile to its
intersection again with Virginia State Route 641; thence leaving U.S. 58 and
proceeding south with Virginia State Route 641, said Election District
boundary, and the Jonesville - Ben Hur Precinct line, approximately 1.50 miles
to the intersection of Virginia State Route 783; thence easterly with Route
783, the Election District 2 and 3 boundary and said Precinct line, a short
distance to a minor tributary of Powell River, its source being Cheek Spring;
thence south with said tributary, the Election District boundary, and the
Precinct line, a short distance to its mouth in Powell River; a corner common
to Election Districts 2, 3 and 4 and the Jonesville, Ben Hur and Stickleyville
Precincts; thence west with the meanders of Powell River, the Election
Districts 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line,
to Virginia State Route 739; thence east and south following Route 739, the
Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville
Precinct line approximately 2.05 miles to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 617; thence west following Route 617, the Election Districts 2 and 4
boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line, approximately 0.39
mile to an unimproved road located 0.17 mile east of Virginia State Route 70;
thence south following said unimproved road and the Election District 2 and 4
boundary, approximately 0.25 mile to an unnamed stream; thence continuing south
following said stream, the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the
Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line approximately 0.36 mile to its mouth
in Wallen Creek; thence west with Wallen Creek, the Election District 2 and 4
boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line approximately 1.5
miles to Virginia State Route 70; thence south with Route 70, the Election
District 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line
approximately 0.08 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 612;
thence east 0.23 mile with Route 70 and said Election District boundary and
Precinct line, to its intersection again with Virginia State Route 612; thence
east following Route 612, the Election Districts 2 and 4 boundary, and the
Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line, approximately 0.57 mile to an unnamed
tributary of Wallen Creek; thence south with the tributary’s meanders, and said
Precinct line to the top of Powell Mountain; thence west with the top of the
ridge of Powell Mountain and the Jonesville - Blackwater Precinct line to the
point where Route 70 intersects with the old Hunter Lookout Tower trail at
Hunter Gap on Powell Mountain; thence westerly with said trail, and the
Jonesville - Blackwater Precinct line, to the site of the lookout tower on top
of the ridge of Powell Mountain; thence with the top of the ridge of Powell
Mountain and said Precinct line approximately 5.50 miles to the county and
Virginia - Tennessee state line and a corner common to Jonesville, Blackwater
and Flatwoods Precincts and the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial District;
thence northwest with said Magisterial District line, and the Jonesville -
Flatwoods Precinct line to the intersection of Virginia State Routes 612 and
665; thence northerly with Route 665, said Precinct line and the Magisterial
line, approximately 0.75 mile to Wallen Creek; thence northeasterly with Wallen
Creek, the Jonesville - Flatwoods Precinct line and the Jonesville - White
Shoals Magisterial line, to Virginia State Route 616 south of the mouth of
Wallen Creek in Powell River; thence west with Route 616, said Precinct line
and the Magisterial line, a short distance to the intersection of Virginia
State Route 730; thence north with Route 730, the Magisterial line and the
Jonesville - Flatwoods Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 662; thence west with Route 662, and said Magisterial and Precinct line,
0.15 mile to the intersection of Virginia State Route 656; thence northwest
with Route 656, the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line and the
Jonesville - Flatwoods Precinct line, 1.70 miles to the intersection of U.S.
58; thence east with U.S. 58 and said Magisterial and Precinct line,
approximately 0.25 mile to the intersection again with Virginia State Route
656; thence proceeding north with Route 656, and the Jonesville - Flatwoods
Precinct line, approximately 3.0 miles to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-32 DESIGNATED; BOUNDARIES IN ELECTION DISTRICT NUMBER 3.
   The precincts in Election District Number 3 and their boundaries are as
follows.
   (A)   Ben Hur Precinct #301. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of the ridge lines of the Cumberland Mountain and Stone Mountain
due north of Ocoonita; thence with the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain, the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and the Ben Hur - St. Charles
Precinct line, approximately 3.4 miles to a point on said ridge 0.23 mile
northwest of the source of an unnamed tributary of Poor Valley Creek north of
Pennington Gap; thence southeast with the tributary, and the Ben Hur -
Pennington Precinct line to its mouth in Poor Valley Creek north of Virginia
State Route 621; thence southeast with said Precinct line a short distance to
Virginia State Route 621 and the Jonesville - Rocky Station Magisterial line;
thence east with Route 621, said Magisterial line and the Ben Hur - Pennington
Precinct line, approximately 1.15 miles to the point where the Jonesville -
Rocky Station Magisterial line leaves Route 621; thence with the Magisterial
line and said Precinct line southeast approximately 0.40 mile to a point, said
point being the northwest corner of U.S. Bureau of the Census Block
#511059503001028 at its intersection with the Jonesville - Rocky Station
Magisterial line; thence southeasterly with the perimeter of said census block,
the Election Districts 3 and 5 boundary and the Ben Hur - Pennington Gap
Precinct line, to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-1103 in
Pennington Gap, thence east with Route T-1103, the line dividing Election
District 3 and 5 and said Precinct line, 0.09 mile to its intersection with
Virginia State Route T-1128; thence south with Route T-1128, and said dividing
line, 0.06 mile to its intersection with U.S. Alternate 58 (West Morgan Ave.)
in Pennington Gap; thence east with U.S. 58 Alternate, West Morgan Ave., and
said dividing line, 1.09 miles to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-
640; thence south with Route T-640, and said dividing line, 0.16 mile south to
its intersection with Virginia State Route T-1129; thence continuing with T-
640, the Election Districts 3 and 5 boundary and said Precinct line, 0.04 mile
to its intersection with Route T-1117; thence continuing southwest with Route
T-640, and said dividing line, 0.25 mile to its intersection with Route T-1123;
thence continuing southwest with Route T-640, the Election Districts 3 and 5
boundary and the Ben Hur - Pennington Precinct line, 0.11 mile to its
intersection with Route T-1106; thence continuing southwest 0.06 mile along
Route T-640, and said dividing line, to the south corporate boundary line of
the Town of Pennington Gap; thence continuing as Virginia State Route 640, the
Election Districts 3 and 5 boundary and said Precinct line, south 0.39 mile to
its intersection with Virginia State Route 1122; thence continuing south with
Route 640, and said dividing line, 0.20 mile to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 641; thence continuing with Route 640, the Election Districts 3 and
5 boundary and the Pennington Precinct line, 0.70 mile to its intersection
again with Virginia State Route 641; thence continuing with Route 640, and said
dividing line, southeast 0.75 mile to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 639; thence continuing with Route 640, the Election Districts 3 and 5
boundary and said Precinct line, south and west 1.39 miles to a bridge crossing
Shafer Creek and a point common to Ben Hur, Pennington and Woodway Precincts;
thence continuing with Route 640 leaving the Election District 3 and 5
boundary, and proceeding with the Ben Hur - Woodway Precinct line 0.06 mile to
Virginia State Route 643 and a corner common to the Ben Hur and Woodway
Precincts; thence leaving Route 643 and continuing with the Jonesville - Rocky
Station Magisterial District line, and the Ben Hur - Woodway Precinct line, to
its intersection with the Powell River 0.20 mile southwest of the Poteet bridge
on U.S. 58, a corner common to Ben Hur, Woodway and Stickleyville Precincts;
thence south and west with the Powell River, its meanders, and a line dividing
Election Districts 3 and 4 and the Ben Hur and Stickleyville Precincts,
approximately 4.16 miles to the mouth of an unnamed tributary of Powell River
flowing from Cheek Spring near Virginia State Route 783 and a corner to
Election Districts 2, 3 and 4 and the Ben Hur, Stickleyville and Jonesville
Precincts; thence north with said tributary, the Election Districts 2 and 3
boundary and the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct line a short distance to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 783; thence west with Route 783 and the
aforementioned Election District and Precinct line, a short distance to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 641; thence north with Route 641, the
Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, and the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct line
approximately 1.50 miles to its intersection with U.S. 58; thence continuing
west with U.S. 58, the line dividing Election Districts 2 and 3, and Ben Hur
and Jonesville Precincts, approximately 0.57 mile to the intersection of
Virginia State Route 641, thence continuing west with U.S. Highway 58, the line
dividing Election Districts 2 and 3 and the Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct, 0.93
mile to Virginia State Route 70; thence continuing west on U.S. Highway 58, the
line dividing Election 2 and 3 and Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct, 0.63 mile to
the intersection of U.S. Highway 58 and 58 Alternate in Jonesville; thence
north and east with U.S Highway 58 Alternate, the line dividing Election 2 and
3 and Ben Hur - Jonesville Precinct, 2.63 miles to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 659; thence with Route 659, the dividing line between
Election Districts 2 and 3, and Ben Hur and Jonesville Precincts, westward
approximately 3.45 miles to its intersection with Route 652; thence continuing
westward with Route 659 and said dividing line to its intersection with Sugar
Run, a corner common to Ben, Jonesville and Flatwoods Precincts; thence
continuing with Route 659, the Election District 2 and 3 boundary and the Ben
Hur - Flatwoods Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia State Route 656
and the Jonesville - White Shoals Magisterial line; thence northerly with Route
656, the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, the Ben Hur - Flatwoods Precinct
line, and the Magisterial line 0.50 mile to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 621; thence northwest with Route 621 and said dividing line 0.10
mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 818; thence with Route 818,
the Election Districts 2 and 3 boundary, the Ben Hur - Flatwoods Precinct line,
and the Magisterial line 0.20 mile to the end of Route 818; thence northerly
with said Precinct, Election District and Magisterial District dividing line
approximately 0.50 mile to the top of Cumberland Mountain; thence easterly with
the top of the ridge of said Cumberland Mountain, the county boundary and the
Kentucky - Virginia state line; approximately 5.00 miles to the intersection of
the ridge lines of Cumberland and Stone Mountains and the point of beginning.
   (B)   Woodway Precinct #302. Beginning at a point, said point being at a
bridge crossing Shafer Creek on Virginia State Route 640 south of Pennington
Gap and a corner common to Election Districts 3 and 5; thence southeast with
said Shafer Creek, and said dividing line, to its mouth in Powell River; thence
east with the meanders of said Powell River, the Election Districts 3 and 5
boundary and the Pennington - Woodway Precinct line, approximately 3.6 miles to
the U.S. 421 bridge at Woodway; thence continuing east with Powell River, its
meanders, the boundary between Election Districts 3 and 5 and the Pennington -
Woodway Precinct line, approximately 2.8 miles to a point, said point being a
corner to Election Districts 3, 4 and 5 and the Woodway, Pennington, and Dryden
Precincts; thence continuing with Powell River, its meanders, the Election
Districts 3 and 4 boundary, and the Woodway - Dryden Precinct line,
approximately 3.9 miles to the Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial line; thence
following same, the Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary and the Dryden -
Woodway Precinct line, southeast to the intersection of Virginia State Route
642 and 743; thence southeast with Route 642, the aforementioned Magisterial
District line, the Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary and the Precinct line,
0.06 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 798; thence southeast
0.30 mile with Route 798, and said dividing line, to its terminus; thence west
following an unnamed and unimproved road, the Election Districts 3 and 4
boundary and the Dryden - Woodway Precinct line, 0.68 mile to its end at an
unnamed tributary of the Powell River; thence south following the creek, the
District 3 and 4 boundary, and said Precinct line, to the top of Wallen Ridge,
a point common with Woodway, Dryden and Stickleyville Precincts; thence
southwest along the top of said ridge, the Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary,
and the Stickleyville - Woodway Precinct line, to Buzzard Roost; thence leaving
said ridge and proceeding east along Fox Branch, and said dividing line, to its
intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with said road, the
Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary and the Stickleyville - Woodway Precinct
line, south and east approximately 2.25 miles to its intersection with Old U.S.
58-421 northwest of Stickleyville; thence southwest with Old U.S. 58-421 and
said dividing line approximately 0.57 mile to the top of Wallen Ridge; thence
southwest with the top of Wallen Ridge, the Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary
and said Precinct line, approximately 5.04 miles to Slagle Gap; thence leaving
the top of Wallen Ridge and following an unnamed unimproved road, the Election
Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, and the Stickleyville - Woodway Precinct line,
southwest approximately 0.76 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route
618 and the Rocky Station - Jonesville Magisterial District line; thence with
said Magisterial District line, the Election Districts 3 and 4 boundary and
said Precinct line, northwest approximately 1.57 miles to its intersection with
Powell River approximately 0.20 mile southwest of the Poteet Bridge on U.S. 58,
a corner common to Woodway, Ben Hur and Stickleyville Precincts; thence
northwest continuing with the Jonesville - Rocky Station Magisterial District
line, and the Ben Hur Precinct line to the intersection of Virginia State
Routes 640 and 643, a corner common to the Ben Hur, Pennington and Woodway
Precincts; thence northeast with Route 640, leaving the Magisterial line, and
proceeding with the West Pennington Precinct line, 0.06 mile to a bridge across
Shafer Creek, and the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-33 DESIGNATED; BOUNDARIES IN ELECTION DISTRICT NUMBER 4.
   The precincts in Election District Number 4 and their boundaries are as
follows.
   (A)   Stickleyville Precinct #401. Beginning at a point, said point being at
the top of Powell Mountain in the county - Scott County boundary line 1.10
miles southwest of U.S. 23 at Jasper; thence continuing south and west with top
of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County boundary, to the
point U.S. 58-421 crosses Powell Mountain; thence continuing with the top of
the ridge of Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County line 4.75 miles to a
point where the county - Scott County line leaves Powell Mountain northwest of
Virginia State Route 604 near Pleasant View Church; thence continuing south and
west along the top of Powell Mountain, the line of Election Districts 2 and 4,
and the Blackwater - Stickleyville Precinct line, approximately 6.68 miles to
an unnamed tributary of Wallen Creek; thence north with said tributary’s
meanders, the District 2 and 4 boundary and the Jonesville - Stickleyville
Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia State Route 612; thence west
following Route 612, the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville
- Stickleyville Precinct line, approximately 0.57 mile to Virginia State Route
70; thence west with Route 70, the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the
Stickleyville - Jonesville Precinct line, 0.23 mile to its intersection again
with Route 612; thence north continuing with Route 70, the Election District 2
and 4 boundary and said precinct line, approximately 0.08 mile to its
intersection with Wallen Creek; thence east with Wallen Creek, the Election
District 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line
approximately 1.5 miles to the mouth of an unnamed stream; thence north
following said stream, the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the
Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line approximately 0.36 mile to its
headwaters near an unimproved road; thence north following said unimproved
road, the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville -
Stickleyville Precinct line approximately 0.25 mile to its intersection with
Virginia Route 617; thence east following Route 617, the Election District 2
and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville Precinct line approximately
0.39 mile to Virginia State Route 739; thence northwest following Route 739,
the Election District 2 and 4 boundary, and the Jonesville - Stickleyville
Precinct line approximately 2.05 miles to Powell River; thence north and east
following the Powell River, its meanders, the Election District 2 and 4
boundary, and said Precinct line, easterly to the mouth of an unnamed tributary
of Powell River, its source being Cheek Spring, a corner to Election District
2, 3 and 4, and to the Stickleyville - Ben Hur and Jonesville Precincts; thence
continuing east with the Powell River, its meanders, the dividing line between
Election Districts 3 and 4, and the Ben Hur - Stickleyville Precinct boundary,
4.3 miles to a point 0.20 mile southwest of the Poteet Bridge in the Rocky
Station - Jonesville Magisterial District line, and a corner common to the Ben
Hur, Woodway and Stickleyville Precincts; thence southeast with said
magisterial line, the dividing line between Districts 3 and 4, and the Woodway
- Stickleyville Precinct line, 1.57 miles to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 618; thence northeast leaving the Magisterial line following an
unnamed and unimproved road, said dividing line and the Woodway - Stickleyville
Precinct line, to the top of Wallen Ridge at Slagle Gap; thence with top of
Wallen Ridge, the dividing line between Election Districts 3 and 4, and said
Precinct line, 5.04 miles to a point where the top of said ridge intersects Old
U.S. 58-421; thence with Old U.S. 58-421, said dividing line and the Woodway -
Stickleyville Precinct line, east approximately 0.57 mile to its intersection
with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with said road, the dividing line
between Election Districts 3 and 4, and said Precinct line, 2.25 miles to its
intersection with Fox Branch; thence with said branch, said dividing line, and
the Woodway - Stickleyville Precinct line, west to the top of Wallen Ridge at
Buzzard Roost; thence northeast along the top of said ridge, the Election
District 3 and 4 dividing line and said Precinct line, approximately 0.25 mile
to the intersection of the Woodway and Dryden Precinct line and a corner common
to Dryden, Woodway and Stickleyville Precincts; thence continuing northeast
along the top of Wallen Ridge and the Stickleyville - Dryden Precinct line to
the intersection of an unnamed road and Wallen Ridge 1.0 mile northeast of
Buzzard Roost; thence southeast with said road, and the Stickleyville - Jasper
Precinct line approximately 0.60 mile to its intersection with an unnamed
tributary of Fox Branch; thence continuing southeast with the stream and said
precinct line to its mouth in Fox Branch; thence southeast with Fox Branch and
the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct line, to its mouth in Dry Creek; thence
northeast with Dry Creek, its meanders and the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct
line approximately 1.7 miles to a spur of Wallen Ridge; thence crossing said
spur approximately 0.10 mile to an unnamed tributary of Scotts Branch; thence
northeast with said stream and the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct line to its
mouth in Scotts Branch; thence north and east with Scotts Branch and said
Precinct line, to its easternmost headwater at the intersection of Virginia
State Routes 619 and 611, the Jefferson National Forest Boundary and Powell
Mountain; thence southeast with the Jefferson National Forest boundary, the top
of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct line,
approximately 3.0 miles to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Jasper Precinct #402. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of an unnamed road and Wallen Ridge, approximately 1.0 mile east
of Buzzard Roost; thence with the top of Wallen Ridge and the Dryden - Jasper
Precinct line northeast to Virginia State Route 619 at Lovelady Gap, a corner
common to Dryden, Seminary and Jasper Precincts; thence continuing northeast
with the top of Wallen Ridge and the Seminary - Jasper Precinct line to the
county - Wise County boundary line; thence southeast with the county boundary
approximately 2.25 miles, crossing U.S. 23 and Southern Railroad, to the top of
the ridge of Powell Mountain; a point common with the adjacent counties of Wise
and Scott; thence southwest with the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain and
the county - Scott County boundary to Bowling Knob; thence continuing with the
top of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the county - Scott County boundary
southwest to the butt of Powell Mountain and Cliff Mountain near Jasper; thence
continuing southwest with said county - Scott County boundary crossing U.S.
Highway 23, south of Jasper, to the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain; thence
continuing north and west with the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain, the
Jasper - Stickleyville Precinct line, and the Jefferson National Forest
Boundary approximately 3.0 miles to the intersection of Virginia State Routes
611 and 619 at the easternmost headwater of Scotts Branch; thence continuing
with the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct line and said headwater downstream
west then south to a minor tributary of Scotts Branch; thence southwesterly
with said tributary and the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct to its source on a
spur of Wallens Ridge; thence leaving the tributary, and proceeding southwest
crossing said spur 0.10 mile to the headwaters of Dry Creek; thence continuing
southwest with Dry Creek and the Stickleyville - Jasper Precinct line
approximately 1.7 miles to the mouth of Fox Branch; thence leaving Dry Creek
and following Fox Branch and said Precinct line west approximately 0.83 mile to
where it forks; thence with the unnamed fork and the Stickleyville - Jasper
Precinct line northwest approximately 0.42 mile to its intersection with an
unnamed road; thence with said road, and the Precinct line approximately 0.60
mile northwest to the top of Wallen Ridge and the point of beginning.
   (C)   Seminary Precinct #403. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of Virginia State Route 605 and the county - Wise County line
northwest of Powell River, thence southeast with the county line, crossing
Powell River and U.S. 58 Alternate, approximately 1.75 miles to the top of
Wallens Ridge; thence southwest with said ridge, and the Jasper - Seminary
Precinct line, approximately 6.0 miles to Lovelady Gap at Virginia State Route
619; thence north leaving Wallen Ridge following an unnamed stream, and the
Dryden - Seminary Precinct line to its mouth in Camp Creek; thence
northwesterly with Camp Creek, and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line,
approximately 0.57 mile to Virginia State Route 733; thence north with Route
733, and the precinct line, to U.S. 58 Alternate; thence southwest with U.S. 58
Alternate and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, approximately 0.10 mile to
Virginia State Route 753; thence northwest with Route 753, and the Precinct
line, approximately 0.10 mile to an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with
the road and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, to its crossing of an unnamed
stream; thence with said stream, and the precinct line, north to its source at
an unnamed and unimproved road; thence with same and the precinct line to
Stocker Knob; thence southwest from said Knob, and with the top of a ridge and
the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, approximately 0.57 mile to an unnamed
tributary of Powell River; thence northwest with the stream and Dryden -
Seminary Precinct line, to its mouth in Powell River; thence westerly with the
river and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, approximately 0.40 mile to its
intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road; thence easterly with said
road, and the Precinct line; to its intersection with Virginia State Route 621;
thence southwesterly with Route 621 and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line,
approximately 0.75 mile to its intersection with an unnamed tributary of Powell
River; thence northwest with said tributary and the Precinct line to the top of
the ridge of Stone Mountain at the Old Olinger Lookout Tower; thence with said
ridge and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line northeast approximately 0.50 mile
to the boundary between Keokee and Robbins Chapel Precinct at McConnell Branch;
thence continuing with Stone Ridge and the Election Districts 4 and 5 boundary
northeast approximately 4.35 miles to the Wise County - county boundary near
High Butte; thence southeasterly with said boundary approximately 1.40 miles to
Virginia State Route 605 and the point of beginning.
   (D)   Dryden Precinct #404. Beginning at a point, said point being on top of
Wallen Ridge 0.25 mile northeast of Buzzard Roost at the source of an unnamed
tributary of the Powell River; thence with the tributary, the Election
Districts 3 and 4 boundary and the Woodway - Dryden Precinct line, to its
intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road approximately 0.68 mile west
of the end of Virginia State Route 798; thence east with said unnamed road, the
Election Districts 3 and 4 dividing line, and said precinct line, 0.68 mile to
the end of Virginia State Route 798; thence with Route 798, said dividing line
and precinct line, northwest to its intersection with Virginia State Route 642
and the Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial District line; thence northwest with
Route 642, said Magisterial District line, the Election District 3 and 4
dividing line, and the Woodway - Dryden Precinct line, 0.06 mile to the
intersection of Virginia State Route 743; thence continuing northwest with the
Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial District line, and said dividing line, to the
Powell River; thence west with the Powell River, its meanders, and the Election
District 3 and 4 dividing line, approximately 3.90 miles to the intersection of
an unnamed and unimproved road, and extension of Virginia State Route 861 and a
corner to Election Districts 3, 4 and 5, and Dryden, Woodway and Pennington
Precincts; thence with said road and the line dividing Election District 4 and
5 and Dryden - Pennington Precinct, east and north approximately 0.66 mile to
the end of Route 861; thence with Route 861, said dividing line and Precinct
line, 0.22 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 630; thence west
with Route 630, the Election District 4 and 5 dividing line, and the Dryden -
Pennington Precinct northeast approximately 0.20 mile to the source of an
unnamed stream; thence north and west with the stream and said dividing line to
the CSXT Railroad; thence southeast with same, the dividing line between
Election Districts 4 and 5, and said Precinct line, approximately 0.30 mile to
the U.S. 58 Alternate bridge crossing the railroad; thence with U.S. 58
Alternate, and said dividing line, 0.38 mile to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 629; thence continuing with U.S. 58 Alternate, the Election
District 4 and 5 dividing line and the Dryden - Pennington Precinct line, west
to Virginia State Route 767; thence north following Route 767, the line
dividing Election District 4 and 5, and the Dryden - Pennington Precinct line,
approximately 0.66 mile to the intersection of Route 767 and Route 621 at the
Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial District line; thence with said Magisterial
District line, the Election District 4 and 5 dividing line, and the Dryden -
Pennington Precinct line, northwest approximately 0.75 mile to the top of Stone
Mountain west of Dalton Gap, and a corner common to Pennington, St. Charles and
Dryden Precincts; thence east with top of the ridge of Stone Mountain, the
Election District 4 and 5 boundary and the Robbins Chapel - Dryden Precinct
line, approximately 4.25 miles to the old Olinger Lookout Tower; thence
southeast leaving Stone Mountain following an unnamed tributary of Powell
River, and the Seminary - Dryden Precinct line, to its intersection with
Virginia State 621; thence northeast with Route 621, and said Precinct line
approximately 0.65 mile to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road
parallel to Powell River; thence southwest with the road, and the Dryden -
Seminary Precinct line to its intersection with Powell River; thence northeast
with Powell River, and said precinct line, approximately 0.40 mile to the mouth
of an unnamed stream northwest of Stocker Knob; thence southeast with said
stream and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, to its source on the top of a
ridge; thence northeast with top of the ridge, and said precinct line, to an
unnamed and unimproved road on Stocker Knob; thence southwesterly with said
road, and the Precinct line, approximately 0.90 mile to the source of an
unnamed stream; thence south with said stream, and the Dryden - Seminary
Precinct line, to its intersection of an unnamed and unimproved road; thence
continuing south with said road, and the Precinct line, to its intersection
with Virginia State Route 753; thence with Route 753 and the Dryden - Seminary
Precinct line, approximately 0.10 mile to its intersection with U.S. 58
Alternate; thence with U.S. 58 Alternate and the Precinct line, northeast
approximately 0.20 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 733;
thence south with Route 733, and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line, to Camp
Creek; thence southwest with Camp Creek and the Precinct line, approximately
0.57 mile to the mouth of an unnamed tributary of Camp Creek; thence
southeasterly with said creek, and the Dryden - Seminary Precinct line to its
source at the top of Wallen Ridge on Virginia State Route 619 at Lovelady Gap;
thence southwesterly with the top of the ridge of Powell Mountain and the
Dryden - Jasper Precinct line approximately 4.30 miles to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-34 DESIGNATED; BOUNDARIES IN ELECTION DISTRICT NUMBER 5.
   The precincts in Election District Number 5 and their boundaries are as
follows.
   (A)   St. Charles Precinct #501. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of an unnamed and unimproved road and the county, Virginia -
Kentucky state line at the top of the ridge of Little Black Mountain near
Hanging Rock; thence with said road and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line southwesterly to its intersection with a power transmission line;
thence with said power line, and the precinct line, westerly to its
intersection with an unnamed and unimproved extension of Virginia State Route
636 at Monarch; thence with this road, and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line, approximately 0.30 mile to the end of Route 636; thence
continuing with an unimproved road, and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line southwest then southeast to the top of the ridge of Lone
Mountain, at a point where the road forks, a corner common to St. Charles and
Robbins Chapel Precincts; thence southeasterly with the east fork of the
unimproved road, and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line,
approximately 0.83 mile to the end of state maintenance of Virginia State Route
878; thence southeasterly leaving the unimproved road and proceeding on Route
878, 0.57 mile to its intersection with a power line; thence southwest with the
power line and said Precinct line, to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 628 west of Meadow Fork Church; thence easterly with Route 628, and the
St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia
State Route 766 at Burkhart Chapel; thence continuing with Route 628, and the
Precinct line, southerly a short distance to Reeds Creek; thence southerly with
Reeds Creek and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, a short
distance to its intersection again with Route 628; thence with Route 628, and
said Precinct line, approximately 0.45 mile to its intersection again with
Reeds Creek; thence with Reeds Creek and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line, southeast approximately 0.57 mile to its mouth in the North Fork
of Powell River; thence with the North Fork of Powell River and said Precinct
line easterly to the mouth of a tributary just south of the First Southern
Railroad bridge east of the Purcell community, a point in the Rocky Station and
Yokum Station Magisterial line; thence southeast with the Magisterial line and
the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, to the top of Stone Mountain
near Dalton Gap; thence southwesterly with the top of the ridge of Stone
Mountain, and the St. Charles - Pennington Precinct line, approximately 2.12
miles to the source of an unnamed tributary of the North Fork of Powell River;
thence southerly with the creek and the St. Charles - Pennington Precinct line
to Virginia State Route 621; thence west with Route 621 and said Precinct line
approximately 0.90 mile to its intersection with North Fork of Powell River, a
corner common to Pennington and St. Charles Precincts; thence northerly with
the Powell River, and the Pennington - St. Charles Precinct line, to an
unimproved road; thence with said road, and the Precinct line, a short distance
to U.S. 421; thence northerly with U.S. 421, and the Pennington - St. Charles
Precinct line, 0.25 mile to a point just north of Stone Face Rock on Stone
Mountain; thence southwesterly with the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain, and
the St. Charles - Pennington Precinct line, approximately 3.04 miles to a
point, said point being a common corner to Ben Hur and St. Charles and
Pennington Precincts; thence continuing with the top of the ridge of Stone
Mountain and the Ben Hur - St. Charles Precinct line, approximately 3.40 miles
to the intersection of the ridge lines of Stone and Cumberland Mountains north
of Ocoonita; thence with the top of the ridge of Cumberland Mountain and the
county, Virginia - Kentucky state line, approximately 14.60 miles to the point
of beginning containing the incorporated Town of St. Charles in its entirety.
   (B)   Pennington Precinct #502. Beginning at a point, said point being the
intersection of the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain and the Rocky - Yokum
Station Magisterial line near Dalton Gap; thence continuing with said
Magisterial District line, the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and
the Dryden - Pennington Precinct line, approximately 0.75 mile to the
intersection of Virginia State Routes 621 and 767; thence with Virginia State
Route 767, leaving the Magisterial line, and with the Election District 4 and 5
dividing line and Dryden - Pennington Precinct line, south approximately 0.66
mile to its intersection with U.S. Alternate 58; thence east with U.S Alternate
58, the Election District 4 and 5 dividing line and said Precinct line, a short
distance to the intersection with Virginia State Route 629; thence continuing
with U.S. 58 Alternate, the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and said
Precinct, approximately 0.38 mile to the U.S. 58 Alternate bridge crossing the
CSXT railroad; thence northwest with the CSXT railroad, the line dividing
Election Districts 4 and 5, and the Precinct line, approximately 0.30 mile to
its intersection with an unnamed stream; thence with said stream, the Election
Districts 4 and 5, and Dryden - Pennington Precinct dividing line, to its
source at the top of Big Hill Ridge; thence west crossing the ridge, with the
Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and said Precinct line, to the source
of an unnamed stream; thence with the same and said dividing line to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 630; thence with Route 630, the Election
Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and the Precinct line, approximately 0.57 mile
to the intersection of Virginia State Route 861; thence south with Route 861,
the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and the Dryden - Pennington
Precinct line, 0.22 mile to its end in an unnamed and unimproved road; thence
with said road, the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line, and the Precinct
line, south and west approximately 0.66 mile to the Powell River, a corner to
Election Districts 3, 4 and 5 and the Dryden, Pennington and Woodway Precincts;
thence with Powell River, its meanders, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing
line, and the Pennington - Woodway Precinct line, west approximately 2.80 miles
to the U.S. 421 bridge at Woodway, thence west continuing with Powell River,
its meanders, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and said Precinct,
approximately 3.60 miles to the mouth of Shafer Creek; thence west with same,
the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and the Pennington - Woodway
Precinct line, to its crossing of Virginia State Route 640, a corner common to
Election Districts 3 and 5 and the Woodway, Ben Hur and Pennington Precincts;
thence northeast with Route 640, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line
and the Ben Hur - Pennington Precinct line, 1.39 miles to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 639; thence continuing with Route 640, the Election
Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and said Precinct line, north 0.75 mile to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 641; thence continuing north with Route
640, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line and the Precinct line, 0.70
mile to its intersection again with Route 641; thence continuing north with
Route 640, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and the Ben Hur -
Pennington Precinct line, 0.20 mile to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 1122; thence continuing north with Route 640, the Election Districts 3
and 5 dividing line, and said Precinct, 0.39 mile to the south corporate
boundary of Pennington Gap; thence continuing with Route 640 as T-640, the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line, and the Precinct line, 0.06 mile
north to intersection with Virginia State Route T-1123; thence continuing with
Route T-640, and said dividing line, northeast 0.25 mile to the intersection of
Virginia State Route T-1117 ; thence continuing with Route T-640, and the
Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing line and the Ben Hur - Pennington Precinct
line, north 0.04 mile to the intersection of Virginia State Route T-l 129;
thence continuing north with Route T-640, and said dividing line, 0.16 mile to
U.S. 58 Alternate; thence with U.S. 58 Alternate (West Morgan Ave.), the
Election District 3 and 5 dividing line and the Ben Hur - Pennington Precinct
line, 1.09 miles to the intersection of U.S. 58 Alternate and Virginia State
Route T-1128; thence north with Virginia State Route T-1128, and said dividing
line, 0.06 mile, to its intersection with Virginia State Route T-1103; thence
west with Route T-1103, and said dividing line, 0.09 mile to its intersection
with the eastern perimeter of U.S. Bureau of the Census Block
#5511059503001028; thence northwesterly with said perimeter, the Election
District 3 and 5 dividing line and the Ben Hur - Pennington Precinct line, to
its intersection with the Jonesville - Rocky Station Magisterial line; thence
north with said magisterial boundary, the Election Districts 3 and 5 dividing
line and the Pennington - Ben Hur Precinct line, to Virginia State Route 621;
thence continuing west with Route 621 and said dividing line approximately 1.15
miles to a point just south of the mouth of an unnamed tributary of Poor Valley
Creek; thence leaving the Magisterial line and Route 621, north a short
distance to the tributary source 0.23 mile southeast of the ridge of Stone
Mountain; thence northwest 0.23 mile to a point at the top of the ridge of
Stone Mountain, corner to St. Charles, Ben Hur and Pennington Precincts; thence
east with the ridge of Stone Mountain, and the St. Charles - Pennington
Precinct line approximately 3.04 miles to a point just south of U.S. 421 at
Pennington Gap near Stone Face Rock; thence north a short distance with said
Precinct line to U.S 421, thence south and east following U.S 421, and the St.
Charles - Pennington Precinct line, 0.25 mile to an unnamed and unimproved
road; thence north with said road and Precinct line, a short distance to the
North Fork of Powell River; thence south with same and the St. Charles -
Pennington Precinct line to its intersection with Virginia State Route 621;
thence easterly with Route 621 and the St. Charles - Pennington Precinct line
approximately 0.90 mile to its intersection with an unnamed tributary of North
Fork of Powell River; thence leaving Route 62 Land following the tributary, and
the St. Charles - Pennington Precinct line, north to its source on the top of
the ridge of Stone Mountain; thence east with the ridge, and said Precinct line
approximately 2.12 miles to the point of beginning.
   (C)   Robbins Chapel Precinct #503. Beginning at a point, said point being
at the source of Bundy Creek on the top of the ridge of Little Black Mountain
in the county and Virginia - Kentucky state line; thence southerly with Bundy
Creek, and the Keokee - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, approximately 0.13 mile
to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road, an extension of
Virginia State Route 756 at Calvin; thence southwest with the road, and said
Precinct line, approximately 0.40 mile to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 756; thence with Route 756, and the Keokee - Robbins Chapel Precinct
line, south 0.50 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 606 near
Shephard Hill; thence southeast with Route 606 and the Precinct line,
approximately 0.47 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 625;
thence with Route 625 and the Keokee - Robbins Chapel Precinct line,
approximately 0.75 mile to its intersection with an unimproved road parallel to
a spur of Southern Railroad; thence a short distance with the unimproved road
and the Precinct line to Bundy Creek; thence south with the creek, and the
Keokee - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, to its mouth in the north fork of Powell
River; thence southwest with the river, and said Precinct line, to the mouth of
Payne Branch in the Sigma community; thence east with Payne Branch and the
Keokee - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, a short distance to its intersection
with the Southern Railroad; thence continuing with Payne Branch southeast
approximately 1.0 mile to a point, said point being the southeast fork of Payne
Branch; thence southeast with said fork, approximately 0.50 mile to the top of
a spur of Stone Mountain at the source of a fork of McConnell Branch; thence
northeast with said fork of McConnell Branch to McConnell Branch; thence
southeast with McConnell Branch to its source at the top of the ridge of Stone
Mountain; thence southwest with the top of the ridge of Stone Mountain
approximately 0.50 mile to the Old Olinger Lookout Tower, thence continuing
southwest with Stone Mountain and the Robbins Chapel - Dryden Precinct line
approximately 4.25 miles to the Yokum - Rocky Station Magisterial line near
Dalton Gap, a corner to Pennington, St. Charles, Dryden and Robbins Chapel
precincts; thence northwest with said Magisterial line to the mouth of a
tributary of the north fork of Powell River, just south of the first Southern
Railway Bridge east of Purcell; thence north and west a short distance with the
river, and the St Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, to the mouth of Reeds
Creek; thence northwesterly with Reeds Creek and said Precinct line,
approximately 0.57 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 628;
thence northwesterly with Route 628 and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line approximately 0.45 mile to its intersection again with Reeds
Creek; thence northerly with Reeds Creek, and said Precinct line, a short
distance to its intersection again with Route 628 south of Burkhart’s Chapel;
thence north with Route 628, and the Precinct line, a short distance to its
intersection with Virginia State Route 766; thence west continuing with Route
628 and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line to its intersection with
a power line west of Meadow Fork Church; thence northeast with the power line
and said Precinct line, to its intersection with Virginia State Route 878;
thence northwest with Route 878, and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct
line, 0.57 mile to its end; thence continuing as an unimproved road and with
said Precinct line approximately 0.83 mile to the top of the ridge of Lone
Mountain at the forks of said road and a corner to St. Charles and Robbins
Chapel Precincts; thence continuing northwest then northeast with the road and
the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, to its intersection with
Virginia State Route 636 at its end in an unimproved road; thence with the
unimproved road and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel Precinct line, 0.30 mile
to its intersection with a power line; thence northeast with the power line,
and said Precinct line, to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road
near Hanging Rock; thence with said road and the St. Charles - Robbins Chapel
Precinct line, northeasterly to the top of the ridge of Little Black Mountain
on the county, Virginia - Kentucky state line; thence with said state line
approximately 4.0 miles to the point of beginning.
   (D)   Keokee Precinct #504. Beginning at a point, said point being the
northeast corner of the Robbins Chapel Precinct, on the county and Virginia -
Kentucky state line at the source of Bundy Creek north of Calvin; thence with
said state line northeasterly approximately 4.75 miles to the northernmost
corner of the county boundary and a common corner with the Wise County line;
thence with said boundary southeast approximately 5.0 miles to the top of the
ridge of Stone Mountain northwest of High Butte; thence southwest with said
ridge, the Election Districts 4 and 5 dividing line and the Keokee - Dryden
Precinct line approximately 4.35 miles to the source of McConnell Branch;
thence northwest with McConnell Branch and said Precinct line approximately
0.50 mile to its confluence in Payne Branch; thence with Payne Branch and the
Dryden - Keokee Precinct line, northwest approximately 1.0 mile to the Southern
Railroad near the Sigma community; thence continuing with said creek a short
distance to its mouth in the North Fork of the Powell River; thence
northeasterly with the river, and the Robbins Chapel - Keokee Precinct line,
crossing Virginia State Route 625 to the mouth of Bundy Creek; thence
continuing northeasterly with Bundy Creek, and said Precinct line, a short
distance to its intersection with an unnamed and unimproved road parallel to a
spur of Southern Railroad; thence north with the road, and the Robbins Chapel -
Keokee Precinct line, a short distance to its intersection with Virginia State
Route 625; thence northerly with Route 625 and said Precinct line,
approximately 0.75 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 606;
thence northwest with Route 606, and the Robbins Chapel - Keokee Precinct line,
approximately 0.47 mile to its intersection with Virginia State Route 756 near
Shephard Hill; thence northerly with Route 756, and said Precinct line,
approximately 0.50 mile to its end at Calvin in an unnamed and unimproved road;
thence northeasterly with said road, and the Precinct line, approximately 0.40
mile to its intersection with Bundy Creek, thence northwesterly with Bundy
Creek, and the Robbins Chapel - Keokee Precinct line, approximately 0.13 mile
to its source on the top of the ridge of Little Black Mountain on the county
and Virginia - Kentucky state line, at the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013)
§ 6-35 CENTRAL ABSENTEE VOTER PRECINCT.
   Pursuant to the authority of VA Code § 24.2-712, there is hereby established
a Central Absentee Voter Precinct to be used in all elections. The polling
place for such precinct shall be located in the offices of County General
Registrar and Electoral Board at 133 School Board Place, and shall be operated
consistent with the provisions of the VA Code § 24.2-712, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013; Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 6-36 POLLING PLACES.
   The polling places for the precincts designated in this division are as
follows:
 
Election District Number 1
Precinct       Polling Place
Elydale #101   Elydale Elementary School
Ewing # 102    Thomas Walker High School
Rose Hill #103 Rose Hill Elementary School
 
Election District Number 2
Precinct        Polling Place
Blackwater #201 Blackwater Volunteer Fire Department
Flatwoods #202  Building Flatwoods Primary School
Jonesville #203 Jonesville Middle School
 
Election District Number 3
Precinct     Polling Place
Ben Hur #301 Lee County Vocational School
Woodway #302 Elk Knob Elementary School
 
Election District Number 4
Precinct           Polling Place
Dryden #404        Dryden Primary School
Jasper #402        Jasper Volunteer Fire Department
Seminary #403      Building Seminary Precinct Building
Stickleyville #401 Stickleyville Elementary School Building
 
Election District Number 5
Precinct            Polling Place
Keokee #504         Keokee Elementary School Gym
Pennington #502     Pennington Middle School
Robbins Chapel #503 Robbins Chapel Precinct Building
St. Charles #501    St. Charles Elementary School
 
(Ord. passed 3-19-2013; Ord. passed 7-21-2020)
CHAPTER 7: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
7-1   Title, purpose and authority
   
7-2   Definitions
   
7-3   Local erosion and sediment control program
   
7-4   Submission and approval of plans; contents of plans
   
7-5   Permits; fees; security for performance
   
7-6   Monitoring, reports and inspections
   
7-7   Penalties, injunctions and other legal actions
   
7-8   Appeals and judicial review
§ 7-1 TITLE, PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Erosion and Sediment Control
Ordinance of Lee County.” The purpose of this chapter is to prevent degradation
of properties, stream channels, waters and other natural resources of the
county by establishing requirements for the control of soil erosion, sediment
deposition and non-agricultural run-off, and by establishing procedures whereby
these requirements shall be administered and enforced.
   (B)   This chapter is authorized by the VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1,
Article 2.4, known as the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Law.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT IN LIEU OF A PLAN. A contract between the plan approving authority
and the owner that specifies conservation measures that must be implemented in
the construction of a single-family residence; this contract may be executed by
the plan approving authority in lieu of a formal site plan.
   APPLICANT. Any person submitting an erosion and sediment control plan for
approval or requesting the issuance of a permit, when required, authorizing
land disturbing activities to commence.
   BOARD. The Virginia State Water Control Board.
   CERTIFIED INSPECTOR. An employee or agent of a VESCP authority who holds a
certificate of competence from the Board in the area of project inspection; or
is enrolled in the Board’s training program for project inspection and
successfully completes such program within one year after enrollment.
   CERTIFIED PLAN REVIEWER. An employee or agent of a VESCP authority who holds
a certificate of competence from the Board in the area of plan review; is
enrolled in the Board’s training program for plan review and successfully
completes such program within one year after enrollment; or is licensed as a
professional engineer, architect, certified landscape architect or land
surveyor pursuant to VA Code Title 54.1, Chapter 4, Article 1 (§§ 54.1-400 et
seq.) or a professional soil scientist as defined in VA Code § 54.1-2200.
   CERTIFIED PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR. An employee or agent of a VESCP authority
who holds a certificate of competence from the Board in the area of program
administration; or is enrolled in the Board’s training program for program
administration and successfully completes such program within one year after
enrollment.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative ground cover including,
but not limited to, root mat removal or top soil removal.
   COUNTY. The County of Lee.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environmental Quality.
   DEVELOPMENT. A tract or parcel of land developed or to be developed as a
single unit under single ownership or unified control which is to be used for
any business or industrial purpose or is to contain three or more residential
dwelling units.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Environmental Quality.
   DISTRICT or SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Daniel Boone Soil and
Water Conservation District.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN or PLAN. A document containing material
for the conservation of soil and water resources of a unit or group of units of
land. It may include appropriate maps, an appropriate soil and water plan
inventory, and management information with needed interpretations, and a record
of decisions contributing to conservation treatment. The PLAN shall contain all
major conservation decisions and all information deemed necessary by the VESCP
plan approving authority to assure that the entire unit or units of land will
be so treated to achieve the conservation objectives.
   EROSION IMPACT AREA. An area of land not associated with a current land
disturbing activity, but subject to persistent soil erosion resulting in the
delivery of sediment onto neighboring properties or into state waters. This
definition shall not apply to any lot or parcel of land of 10,000 square feet
or less used for residential purposes.
   EXCAVATING. Any digging, scooping or other methods of removing earth
materials.
   FILLING. Any depositing or stockpiling of earth materials.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling of earth material or any combination
thereof, including the land in its excavated or filled conditions.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change to the land surface that may
result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into
state waters or onto lands in the commonwealth, including, but not limited to,
clearing, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, except that
the term shall not include:
      (1)   Minor land disturbing activities, such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs and maintenance work;
      (2)   Individual service connections;
      (3)   Installation, maintenance or repair of any underground public
utility lines when such activity occurs on an existing hard surfaced road,
street or sidewalk; provided the land disturbing activity is confined to the
area of the road, street or sidewalk that is hard surfaced;
      (4)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields, unless included in an overall
plan for land disturbing activity relating to construction of the building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (5)   Permitted surface or deep mining operations and projects, or oil
and gas operations and projects conducted pursuant to VA Code Title 45.2;
      (6)   Tilling, planting or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural or
forest crops, or livestock feedlot operations, including engineering operations
as follows: construction of terraces, terrace outlets, check dams, desilting
basins, dikes, ponds, ditches, strip cropping, lister furrowing, contour
cultivating, contour furrowing, land drainage and land irrigation; however,
this exception shall not apply to harvesting of forest crops, unless the area
on which harvesting occurs is reforested artificially or naturally in
accordance with the provisions of VA Code Title 10.1, Chapter 11 (§§ 10.1-1100
et seq.) or is converted to bona fide agricultural or improved pasture use as
described in VA Code § 10.1-1163(B);
      (7)   Repair or rebuilding of the tracks, rights-of-way, bridges,
communication facilities and other related structures and facilities of a
railroad company;
      (8)   Agricultural engineering operations, including, but not limited to,
the construction of terraces, terrace outlets, check dams, desilting basins,
dikes, ponds not required to comply with the provisions of the Dam Safety Act
(VA Code §§ 10.1-604 et seq.), ditches, strip cropping, lister furrowing,
contour cultivating, contour furrowing, land drainage and land irrigation;
      (9)   Disturbed land areas of less than 10,000 square feet in size, or
less than 2,500 square feet in all areas of the jurisdiction designated as
subject to the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Area Designation and Management
Regulations;
      (10)   Installation of fence and sign posts or telephone and electric
poles, and other kinds of posts or poles;
      (11)   Shoreline erosion control projects on tidal waters, when all of
the land disturbing activities are within the regulatory authority of and
approved by local wetlands boards, the Marine Resources Commission or the
United States Army Corps of Engineers; however, any associated land that is
disturbed outside of this exempted area shall remain subject to this chapter;
and
      (12)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property, and emergency
repairs; however, if the land disturbing activity would have required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, if the activity were not an
emergency, then the land area disturbed shall be shaped and stabilized in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   LAND DISTURBING PERMIT OR APPROVAL. A permit or other form of approval
issued by the county for the clearing, filling, excavating, grading,
transporting of land or for any combination thereof, or for any other land
disturbing activity.
   LOCAL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM or LOCAL CONTROL PROGRAM. An
outline of the various methods employed by the county to regulate land
disturbing activities and thereby minimize erosion and sedimentation in
compliance with the state program, and may include such items as local
ordinances, policies and guidelines, technical materials, inspection,
enforcement, and evaluation.
   NATURAL CHANNEL DESIGN CONCEPTS. The utilization of engineering analysis and
fluvial geomorphic processes to create, rehabilitate, restore or stabilize an
open conveyance system for the purpose of creating or recreating a stream that
conveys its bankfull storm event within its banks and allows larger flows to
access its bankfull bench and its floodplain.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein, mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of a
property.
   PEAK FLOW RATE. The maximum instantaneous flow from a given storm condition
at a particular location.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom the land disturbing approval is issued or the
person who certifies that the approved erosion and sediment control plan will
be followed.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, county, city, town or other
political subdivision of the commonwealth, governmental body, including a
federal or state entity as applicable, any interstate body, or any other legal
entity.
   STATE PERMIT. An approval to conduct a land disturbing activity issued by
the Board in the form of a state stormwater individual permit or coverage
issued under a state general permit.
   RESPONSIBLE LAND DISTURBER or RLD. An individual holding a certificate
issued by the department who is responsible for carrying out the land
disturbing activity in accordance with the approved ESC plan. The RLD may be
the owner, applicant, permittee, designer, superintendent, project manager,
contractor or any other project or development team member. The RLD must be
designated on the ESC plan or permit as a prerequisite for engaging in land
disturbance.
   RUN-OFF VOLUME. The volume of water that runs off the land development
project from a prescribed storm event.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A non-commercial dwelling that is occupied
exclusively by one family.
   STATE WATERS. All waters on the surface and under the ground wholly or
partially within or bordering the commonwealth or within its jurisdiction.
   TRANSPORTING. Any moving of earth materials from one place to another place,
other than such movement incidental to grading, when such movement results in
destroying the vegetative ground cover, either by tracking or the buildup of
earth materials to the extent that erosion and sedimentation will result from
the soil or earth materials over which such transporting occurs.
   VESCP PLAN APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation
District responsible for determining the adequacy of a plan submitted for land
disturbing activities on a unit or units of lands and for approving plans.
   VESCP AUTHORITY or PROGRAM AUTHORITY. The county which has adopted a soil
erosion and sediment control program that has been approved by the Board.
   VIRGINIA EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM or VESCP. A program approved
by the Board that has been established by a VESCP authority for the effective
control of soil erosion, sediment deposition and non-agricultural run-off
associated with a land disturbing activity to prevent the unreasonable
degradation of properties, stream channels, waters and other natural resources,
and shall include such items, where applicable, as local ordinances, rules,
permit requirements, annual standards and specifications, policies and
guidelines, technical materials, and requirements for plan review, inspection
and enforcement, where authorized in this chapter, and evaluation consistent
with the requirements of this article and its associated regulations.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME. The volume equal to the first one-half inch of run-off
multiplied by the impervious surface of the land development project.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-3 LOCAL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15:54, the county hereby establishes a VESCP
program and adopts the regulations promulgated by the Board (for the effective
control of soil erosion and sediment deposition to prevent the unreasonable
degradation of properties, stream channels, waters and other natural resources)
and the Virginian Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook, Third Edition. In
accordance with VA Code § 62.1-44.15:52, any plan approved prior to July 1,
2014 that provides for stormwater management that addresses any flow rate
capacity and velocity requirements for natural or human-made channels shall
satisfy the flow rate capacity and velocity requirements for natural or human-
made channels if the practices are designed to detain the water quality volume
and to release it over 48 hours; detain and release over a 24-hour period the
expected rainfall resulting from the one-year, 24-hour storm; and reduce the
allowable peak flow rate resulting from the one and one-half-, two- and ten-
year, 24-hour storms to a level that is less than or equal to the peak flow
rate from the site assuming it was in a good forested condition, achieved
through multiplication of the forested peak flow rate by a reduction factor
that is equal to the run-off volume from the site when it was in a good
forested condition divided by the run-off volume from the site in its proposed
condition, and shall be exempt from any flow rate capacity and velocity
requirements for natural or human-made channels.
   (A)   For plans approved on and after July 1, 2014, the flow rate capacity
and velocity requirements for natural and human-made channels shall be
satisfied by compliance with water quantity requirements specified in VA Code §
62.1-44.15:28 of the Stormwater Management Act and 9 VAC 25-870-66 of the
Virginia Stormwater Management Program (VSMP) regulations, unless such land
disturbing activities are in accordance with the grandfathering provisions of
the Virginia Stormwater Management Program (VSMP) regulations.
   (B)   Pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15:53, an erosion control plan shall not
be approved until it is reviewed by a certified plan reviewer. Inspections of
land disturbing activities shall be conducted by a certified inspector. The
erosion control program of the county shall contain a certified program
administrator, a certified plan reviewer and a certified inspector (who may be
the same person).
   (C)   The county hereby designates Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation
District as the plan approving authority.
   (D)   The program and regulations provided for in this chapter shall be made
available for public inspection at the office of the Daniel Boone Soil and
Water Conservation District.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-4 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLANS; CONTENTS OF PLANS.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, no person may engage in any land disturbing
activity until he or she has submitted to the Daniel Boone Soil and Water
Conservation District an erosion and sediment control plan for the land
disturbing activity and such plan has been approved by the VESCP authority. No
approval to begin a land disturbing activity will be issued, unless evidence of
state permit coverage is obtained where it is required. Where land disturbing
activities involve lands under the jurisdiction of more than one VESCP, an
erosion and sediment control plan, at the option of the applicant, may be
submitted to the Department for review and approval rather than to each
jurisdiction concerned. Where the land disturbing activity results from the
construction of a single-family residence, an agreement in lieu of a plan may
be substituted for an erosion and sediment control plan, if executed by the
plan approving authority.
   (B)   The standards contained within the Virginia Erosion and Sediment
Control regulations and the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook, as
amended, are to be used by the applicant when making a submittal under the
provisions of this chapter, and in the preparation of an erosion and sediment
control plan. The plan approving authority, in considering the adequacy of a
submitted plan, shall be guided by the same standards, regulations and
guidelines. When the standards vary between the publications, the state
regulations shall take precedence.
   (C)   The VESCP plan approving authority shall review erosion and sediment
control plans submitted to it and grant written approval within 60 days of the
receipt of the plan if it determines that the plan meets the requirements of
the Erosion and Sediment Control Law and the Board’s regulations, and if the
person responsible for carrying out the plan certifies that he or she will
properly perform the measures included in the plan and will conform to the
provisions of this chapter. In addition, as a prerequisite to engaging in the
land disturbing activities shown on the approved plan, the person responsible
for carrying out the plan shall provide the name of the responsible land
disturber, to the program authority, as provided by VA Code § 62.1-44.15:52, of
the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Law, who will be in charge of and
responsible for carrying out the land disturbing activity. Failure to provide
the name of the responsible land disturber, prior to engaging in land
disturbing activities, may result in revocation of the approval of the plan,
and the person responsible for carrying out the plan shall be subject to the
penalties provided in this chapter. However, the VESCP plan approving authority
may waive the certificate of competence requirement for an agreement in lieu of
a plan for construction of a single-family residence. If a violation occurs
during the land disturbing activity, then the person responsible for carrying
out the agreement in lieu of a plan shall correct the violation and provide the
name of the responsible land disturber, as provided by VA Code § 62.1-44.15:52
of the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Law. Failure to provide the name
of the responsible land disturber shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   When the plan is determined to be inadequate, written notice of
disapproval stating the specific reasons for disapproval shall be communicated
to the applicant within 45 days. The notice shall specify such modifications,
terms and conditions that will permit approval of the plan. If no action is
taken within 45 days, the plan shall be deemed approved and the person
authorized to proceed with the proposed activity.
   (E)   The VESCP authority shall act on any erosion and sediment control plan
that has been previously disapproved within 45 days after the plan has been
revised, resubmitted for approval and deemed adequate.
   (F)   The VESCP authority may require changes to an approved plan when:
      (1)   The inspection reveals that the plan is inadequate to satisfy
applicable regulations; or
      (2)   The person responsible for carrying out the plan finds that because
of changed circumstances or for other reasons, the approved plan cannot be
effectively carried out, and proposed amendments to the plan, consistent with
the requirements of this chapter, are agreed to by the plan approving authority
and the person responsible for carrying out the plans.
   (G)   The VESCP plan approving authority may waive or modify any of the
standards that are deemed to be inappropriate or too restrictive for site
conditions, by granting a variance. A variance may be granted under these
conditions.
      (1)   At the time of plan submission, an applicant may request a variance
to become part of the approved erosion and sediment control plan. The applicant
shall explain the reasons for requesting variances in writing. Specific
variances which are allowed by the plan approving authority shall be documented
in the plan.
      (2)   During construction, the person responsible for implementing the
approved plan may request a variance in writing from the plan approving
authority. The plan approving authority shall respond in writing either
approving or disapproving such a request. If the plan approving authority does
not approve a variance within ten days of receipt of the request, the request
shall be considered to be disapproved. Following disapproval, the applicant may
resubmit a variance request with additional documentation.
      (3)   The VESCP authority shall consider variance requests judiciously,
keeping in mind both the need of the applicant to maximize cost effectiveness
and the need to protect off-site properties and resources from damage.
   (H)   In order to prevent further erosion, the county may require approval
of a plan for any land identified in the local program as an erosion impact
area.
   (I)   When a land disturbing activity will be required of a contractor
performing construction work pursuant to a construction contract, the
preparation, submission and approval of an erosion and sediment control plan
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (J)   In accordance with the procedure set forth in VA Code § 62.1-44.15:55
(E), any person engaging in more than one jurisdiction, in the creation and
operation of wetland mitigation or stream restoration banks, which have been
approved and are operated in accordance with applicable federal and state
guidance, laws or regulations for the establishment, use and operation of
wetland mitigation or stream restoration banks, pursuant to a mitigation
banking instrument signed by the Department of Environmental Quality, the
Marine Resources Commission or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, may, at the
option of that person, file general erosion and sediment control specifications
for wetland mitigation or stream restoration banks annually with the Board for
review and approval consistent with guidelines established by the Board.
Approval of general erosion and sediment control specifications does not
relieve the owner or operator from compliance with any other local ordinances
and regulations, including requirements to submit plans and obtain permits as
may be required by such ordinances and regulations.
   (K)   State agency projects are exempt from the provisions of this chapter,
except as provided for in the VA Code § 62.1-44.15:56.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-5 PERMITS; FEES; SECURITY FOR PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Agencies authorized under any other law to issue grading, building or
other permits for activities involving land disturbing activities shall not
issue any such permit, unless the applicant submits with his or her
application, an approved erosion and sediment control plan, certification that
the plan will be followed and evidence of state permit coverage where it is
required.
   (B)   No person may engage in any land disturbing activity until he or she
has acquired a land disturbing permit (unless the proposed land disturbing
activity is specifically exempt from the provisions of this chapter) and has
paid the fees and posted the required bond.
   (C)   An administrative fee in an amount prescribed by resolution of the
Board of Supervisors shall be paid to the county at the time of submission of
the erosion and sediment control plan.
   (D)   No land disturbing permit shall be issued until the applicant submits
with his or her application an approved erosion and sediment control plan or
agreement in lieu of an approved erosion and sediment control plan and
certification that the plan will be followed.
   (E)   (1)   All applicants for permits shall provide to the county a
performance bond with surety, cash escrow or an irrevocable letter of credit
acceptable to the Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District to ensure
that measures could be taken by the county at the applicant’s expense, should
the applicant fail, after proper notice, within the time specified to initiate
or maintain appropriate conservation measures required of him or her by the
approved plan as a result of his or her land disturbing activity.
      (2)   The amount of the bond or other security for performance shall not
exceed the total of the estimated cost to initiate and maintain appropriate
conservation action based on unit price for new public or private sector
construction in the locality and a reasonable allowance for estimated
administrative costs and inflation which shall not exceed 25% of the cost of
the conservation action. Should it be necessary for the county to take such
conservation action, the county may collect from the applicant any costs in
excess of the amount of the surety held.
      (3)   Within 60 days of adequate stabilization, as determined by the
Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District in any project or section of
a project, such bond, cash escrow or letter of credit, or the unexpended or
unobligated portion thereof, shall be either refunded to the applicant or
terminated, based upon the percentage of stabilization accomplished in the
project or project section. These requirements are in addition to all other
provisions relating to the issuance of permits and are not intended to
otherwise affect the requirements for such permits.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-6 MONITORING, REPORTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The responsible land disturber, as provided by VA Code § 62.1-44.15:
52, shall be in charge of and responsible for carrying out the land disturbing
activity and provide for periodic inspections of the land disturbing activity.
The county may require the person responsible for carrying out the plan to
monitor the land disturbing activity. The person responsible for carrying out
the plan will maintain records of these inspections and maintenance, to ensure
compliance with the approved plan and to determine whether the measures
required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation.
   (B)   (1)   The Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District shall
periodically inspect the land disturbing activity in accordance with 9 VAC 25-
840-60 of the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations to ensure
compliance with the approved plan and to determine whether the measures
required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation.
The owner, permittee or person responsible for carrying out the plan shall be
given notice of the inspection.
      (2)   If the Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District determines
that there is a failure to comply with the plan, notice shall be served upon
the permittee or person responsible for carrying out the plan by mailing with
confirmation of delivery to the address specified in the permit application or
in the plan certification, or by delivery at the site of the land disturbing
activities to the agent or employee supervising such activities.
      (3)   The notice shall specify the measures needed to comply with the
plan and shall specify the time within which such measures shall be completed.
Upon failure to comply within the specified time, the permit may be revoked and
the permittee or person responsible for carrying out the plan shall be subject
to the penalties provided by this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Upon issuance of an inspection report denoting a violation of VA
Code §§ 62.1-44.15:55 and 62.1-44.15:56, the Daniel Boone Soil and Water
Conservation District may, in conjunction with or subsequent to a notice to
comply as specified in this chapter, issue an order requiring that all or part
of the land disturbing activities permitted on the site be stopped until the
specified corrective measures have been taken.
      (2)   If land disturbing activities have commenced without an approved
plan, the Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District may issue an order
requiring that all of the land disturbing activities be stopped until an
approved plan or any required permits are obtained.
      (3)   Where the alleged non-compliance is causing or is in imminent
danger of causing harmful erosion of lands or sediment deposition in waters
within the watersheds of the commonwealth, or where the land disturbing
activities have commenced without an approved plan or any required permits,
such an order may be issued without regard to whether the alleged violator has
been issued a notice to comply as specified in this chapter. Otherwise, such an
order may be issued only after the alleged violator has failed to comply with
such a notice to comply.
      (4)   The order shall be served in the same manner as a notice to comply,
and shall remain in effect for a period of seven days from the date of service
pending application by the county or permit holder for appropriate relief to
the Circuit Court of the county. The county shall serve such order for
disturbance without an approved plan or permits upon the owner by mailing with
confirmation of delivery to the address specified in the land records. Said
order shall be posted on the site where the disturbance is occurring, and shall
remain in effect until permits and plan approvals are secured, except in such
situations where an agricultural exemption applies.
      (5)   If the alleged violator has not obtained an approved plan or any
required permits within seven days from the date of service of the order, the
Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District may issue an order to the
owner requiring that all construction and other work on the site, other than
corrective measures, be stopped until an approved plan and any required permits
have been obtained. Such an order shall be served upon the owner by mailing
with confirmation of delivery to the address specified in the permit
application or the land records of the county.
      (6)   The owner may appeal the issuance of an order to the Circuit Court
of the county.
      (7)   Any person violating or failing, neglecting or refusing to obey an
order issued by the Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District may be
compelled in a proceeding instituted in the Circuit Court of the county to obey
same and to comply therewith by injunction, mandamus or other appropriate
remedy.
      (8)   Upon completion and approval of corrective action or obtaining an
approved plan or any required permits, the order shall immediately be lifted.
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Daniel Boone Soil and
Water Conservation District from taking any other action authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-7 PENALTIES, INJUNCTIONS AND OTHER LEGAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Violators of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:55 and
62.1-44.15:56 shall, upon a finding of the District Court of the county, be
assessed a civil penalty. The civil penalty for any one violation shall be not
less than $100 nor more than $1,000, except that the civil penalty for
commencement of land disturbing activities without an approved plan shall be
$1,000. Each day during which the violation is found to have existed shall
constitute a separate offense. In no event shall a series of specified
violations arising from the same operative set of facts result in civil
penalties which exceed a total of $ 10,000, except that a series of violations
arising from the commencement of land disturbing activities without an approved
plan for any site shall not result in civil penalties which exceed a total of
$10,000. Any such civil penalties shall be in lieu of criminal sanctions and
shall preclude the prosecution of such violation as a misdemeanor under VA Code
§ 62.1-44.15:63(A).
   (C)   (1)   The Daniel Boone Soil and Water Conservation District, or the
owner or property which has sustained damage or which is in imminent danger of
being damaged, may apply to the Circuit Court of the county to enjoin a
violation or a threatened violation of VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:55 and 62.1-44.15:
56, without the necessity of showing that an adequate remedy at law does not
exist.
      (2)   However, an owner of property shall not apply for injunctive relief
unless he or she has notified in writing the person who has violated the local
program, and the program authority, that a violation of the local program has
caused, or creates a probability of causing, damage to his or her property; and
neither the person who has violated the local program, nor the program
authority has taken corrective action within 15 days to eliminate the
conditions which have caused, or create the probability of causing, damage to
his or her property.
   (D)   In addition to any criminal or civil penalties provided under this
chapter, any person who violates any provision of the Erosion and Sediment
Control Law may be liable to the county in a civil action for damages.
   (E)   (1)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained in this
section, any person violating or failing, neglecting or refusing to obey any
injunction, mandamus or other remedy obtained pursuant to this section shall be
subject, in the discretion of the court, to a civil penalty not to exceed
$2,000 for each violation. A civil action for such violation or failure may be
brought by the county.
      (2)   Any civil penalties assessed by a court shall be paid into the
treasury of the county, except that where the violator is the locality itself,
or its agent, the court shall direct the penalty to be paid into the state
treasury.
   (F)   With the consent of any person who has violated or failed, neglected
or refused to obey any regulation or condition of a permit or any provision of
this chapter, or order of the VESCP authority, the county may provide for the
payment of civil charges for violations in specific sums, not to exceed the
limit specified in subsection (E) above. Such civil charges shall be instead of
any appropriate civil penalty which could be imposed under subsections (B) or
(E) above.
   (G)   The Commonwealth’s Attorney shall, upon request of the county, take
legal action to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be prima facie
evidence in any legal or equitable proceeding for damages caused by erosion,
siltation or sedimentation that all requirements of law have been met, and the
complaining party must show negligence in order to recover any damages.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 7-8 APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any applicant under the provision of this chapter who is aggrieved by
any action of the county or its agent in disapproving plans submitted pursuant
to this chapter shall have the right to apply for and receive a review of such
action by the Board of Supervisors; provided an appeal is filed within 30 days
from the date of the action. Any applicant who seeks an appeal hearing before
the Board of Supervisors shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled Board
of Supervisors public hearing; provided that the Board of Supervisors and other
involved parties have at least 30 days prior notice. In reviewing the agent’s
actions, the Board of Supervisors shall consider evidence and opinions
presented by the aggrieved applicant and agent. After considering the evidence
and opinions, the Board of Supervisors may affirm, reverse or modify the
action. The Board of Supervisors decision shall be final, subject only to
review by the Circuit Court of the county.
   (B)   Final decisions of the county under this chapter shall be subject to
review by Circuit Court of the county; provided an appeal is filed within 30
days from the date of any written decision adversely affecting the rights,
duties or privileges of the person engaging in or proposing to engage in land
disturbing activities.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 8: FLOODS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
8-1   Statutory authorization and purpose
   
8-2   Applicability
   
8-3   Compliance and liability
   
8-4   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
8-5   Severability
   
8-6   Penalty for violations
   
8-7—8-15      Reserved
Article II. Definitions
   
8-16   Definitions
   
8-17—8-25   Reserved
Article III. Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
8-26   Description of districts
   
8-27   District boundary changes
   
8-28   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
8-29   Submitting technical data
   
8-30—8-38   Reserved
Article IV. District Provisions
   
8-39   Permit and application requirements
   
8-40   General standards
   
8-41   Specific standards
   
8-42   Standards for the Floodway District
   
8-43   Standards for the Special Floodplain District
   
8-44   Standards for Approximated Floodplain
   
8-45   Standards for the Shallow Flooding District
   
8-46   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
8-47—8-55   Reserved
Article V. Variances; Factors to Be Considered
   
8-56   Generally
   
8-57—8-65   Reserved
Article VI. Existing Structures in Floodplain Areas
   
8-66   Generally
Statutory reference:
   Flood Damage Reduction Act, see VA Code §§ 10.1-600 et seq.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 8-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to localities by
VA Code § 15.2-2280. The purpose of these provisions is to prevent the loss of
life and property, the creation of health and safety hazards, the disruption of
commerce and governmental services, the extraordinary and unnecessary
expenditure of public funds for flood protection and relief, and the impairment
of the tax base by:
   (A)   Regulating uses, activities and development which, alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, activities and development,
will cause unacceptable increases in flood heights, velocities, and
frequencies;
   (B)   Restricting or prohibiting certain uses, activities and development
from locating within districts subject to flooding;
   (C)   Requiring all those uses, activities and developments that do occur in
flood-prone districts to be protected and/or flood-proofed against flooding and
flood damage; and
   (D)   Protecting individuals from buying land and structures which are
unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-2 APPLICABILITY.
   These provisions shall apply to all privately- and publicly-owned lands
within the jurisdiction of the county and identified as being flood-prone.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-3 COMPLIANCE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   No land shall hereafter be developed and no structure shall be
located, relocated, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged or structurally
altered, except in full compliance with the terms and provisions of this
chapter and any other applicable ordinances and regulations which apply to uses
within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study, but does not imply total flood
protection. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that districts outside the
floodplain district or land uses permitted within such district will be free
from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   Records of actions associated with administering this chapter shall be
kept on file and maintained by the County Building Code Official.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the county or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-4 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
districts. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-5 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatever, such decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of this chapter. The remaining portions shall
remain in full force and effect, and for this purpose, the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-6 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with any of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or directions of the Director of Planning or any
authorized employee of the county shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject
to the penalties therefore.
   (B)   In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby
reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or non-
compliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violation or non-compliance within a reasonable time. Any structure
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in non-compliance
with this chapter may be declared by the county to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such. Flood insurance may be withheld from structures constructed
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§§ 8-7—8-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 8-16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The Federal Emergency Management Agency designated
100-year water surface elevation. The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to the datum specified on the community’s flood insurance rate map.
For the purposes of this chapter, the 100-year flood or 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board appointed to review appeals made by
individuals with regard to decisions of the Zoning Administrator in the
interpretation of this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings or columns (posts and piers).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or run-off of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   Mudflows which are proximately caused by flooding as defined in
subsection (1)(b) above and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on
the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current
of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (3)   The collapse or subsistence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection (1)(a) above.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk
premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has made available
digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudflow and/or flood-related
erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization in the
watershed. When a FREEBOARD is included in the height of a structure, the flood
insurance premiums may be cheaper.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel
trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days, but does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after March 4,
1987 or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SHALLOW FLOODING AREA. A special flood hazard area with base flood depths
from one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
8-27.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction and substantial
improvement, under the Coastal Barriers Resource Act (P.L. No. 97-348), being
16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., means the date the building permit was issued;
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, substantial improvement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§§ 8-17—8-25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 8-26 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Basis of districts.
      (1)   The various floodplain districts shall include special flood hazard
areas. The basis for the delineation of these districts shall be the flood
insurance study (FIS) and the flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) for the county,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance
Administration, dated February 18, 2011, and any subsequent revisions or
amendments thereto.
      (2)   The boundaries of the special flood hazard area and floodplain
districts are established as shown on the flood insurance rate map, which is
declared to be a part of this chapter and which shall be kept on file at the
County Building Inspector offices.
         (a)   The Floodway District is delineated, for purposes of this
chapter, using the criterion that certain areas within the floodplain must be
capable of carrying the waters of the 100-year flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point. The
areas included in this District are specifically defined in the above-
referenced flood insurance study and shown on the accompanying flood insurance
rate map.
         (b)   The Special Floodplain District shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the maps accompanying the flood insurance study for which 100-
year flood elevations have been provided.
         (c)   The Approximated Floodplain District shall be those areas
identified as an A or A99 Zone on the maps accompanying the flood insurance
study. In these zones, no detailed flood profiles or elevations are provided,
but the 100-year floodplain boundary has been approximated. For these areas,
the 100-year flood elevations and floodway information from federal, state and
other acceptable sources shall be used, when available. Where the specific 100-
year flood elevation cannot be determined for this area using other sources of
data, such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Flood Plain Information Reports,
U.S. Geological Survey Flood-Prone Quadrangles and the like, then the applicant
for the proposed use, development and/or activity shall determine this
elevation in accordance with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough review by the governing body.
         (d)   The Shallow Flooding District shall be those areas identified as
Zone AO or AH on the maps accompanying the flood insurance study.
   (B)   Overlay concept.
      (1)   The floodplain districts described above shall be overlays to the
existing underlying districts as shown on the official zoning ordinance map,
and as such, the provisions for the floodplain districts shall serve as a
supplement to the underlying district provisions.
      (2)   If there is any conflict between the provisions or requirements of
the floodplain districts and those of any underlying district, the more
restrictive provisions and/or those pertaining to the floodplain districts
shall apply.
      (3)   In the event any provision concerning a floodplain district is
declared inapplicable as a result of any legislative or administrative actions
or judicial decision, the basic underlying provisions shall remain applicable.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-27 DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   The delineation of any of the floodplain districts may be revised by the
county where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or where more
detailed studies have been conducted or undertaken by the U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers or other qualified agency, or an individual documents the need for
such change. However, prior to any such change, approval must be obtained from
the Federal Insurance Administration.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-28 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Initial interpretations of the boundaries of the floodplain districts shall
be made by the Zoning Officer. Should a dispute arise concerning the boundaries
of any of the districts, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary
determination. The person questioning or contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her
case to the Board and to submit his or her own technical evidence if he or she
so desires.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-29 SUBMITTING TECHNICAL DATA.
   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, a
community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of the changes by
submitting technical or scientific data. Such a submission is necessary so that
upon confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§§ 8-30—8-38 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 8-39 PERMIT AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. All uses, activities and development occurring
within any floodplain district, including placement of manufactured homes,
shall be undertaken only upon the issuance of a zoning permit. Such development
shall be undertaken only in strict compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and with all other applicable codes and ordinances, as amended, such as
the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code (VA USBC), being VA Code Title 36,
Chapter 6 and the county subdivision ordinance regulations. Prior to the
issuance of any such permit, the County Building Code Official shall require
all applications to include compliance with all applicable state and federal
laws, and shall review all sites to assure they are reasonably safe from
flooding. Under no circumstances shall any use, activity and/or development
adversely affect the capacity of the channels or floodways of any watercourse,
drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
   (B)   Site plans and permit applications. All applications for development
within any floodplain district and all building permits issued for the
floodplain shall incorporate the following information:
      (1)   The elevation of the base flood at the site;
      (2)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement);
      (3)   For structures to be flood-proofed (non-residential only), the
elevation to which the structure will be flood-proofed; and
      (4)   Topographic information showing existing and proposed ground
elevations.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following provisions shall apply to all permits.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be according to
the VA USBC and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities, including duct work, shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   In addition to subsection (A)(1) through (A)(8) above, in all special
flood hazard areas, the additional provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of any channels or
of any watercourse, stream and the like, within this jurisdiction, a permit
shall be obtained from the U.S. Corps of Engineers, the Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality and the Virginia Marine Resources Commission (a joint
permit application is available from any of these organizations). Furthermore,
in riverine areas, notification of the proposal shall be given by the applicant
to all affected adjacent jurisdictions, the Department of Conservation and
Recreation (Division of Dam Safety and Floodplain Management), and the Federal
Insurance Administrator.
      (2)   The flood-carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion
of any watercourse shall be maintained.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations have been
provided in the flood insurance study or generated according to §
8-44, the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the base flood level
with a freeboard of one foot.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential building (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the base flood level with a freeboard of greater than one foot.
Buildings located in all A1-30, AE, and AH zones may be flood-proofed in lieu
of being elevated; provided that all areas of the building components below the
elevation corresponding to the BFE plus one foot are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection (B) are
satisfied. Such certification, including the specific elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) to which such structures are flood-proofed, shall be maintained
by the County Building Code Official.
   (C)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall:
      (1)   Not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be
used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the enclosed area
shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles (garage door)
or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior door), or entry
to the living area (stairway or elevator);
      (2)   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below the
regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, measures to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum design
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices; provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on
individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision or in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has
incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, must meet all the
requirements for new construction, including the elevation and anchoring
requirements in §
8-40(A) and (B), and subsection (A) above.
      (2)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for manufactured homes in §
8-40 and this subsection (D).
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-42 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOODWAY DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Floodway District.
   (A)   (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments are prohibited unless certification, such
as hydrologic and hydraulic analyses (with supporting technical data) is
provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in
flood levels during occurrence of the base flood. Hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses,
computations and the like, shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough review by the County Building Code Official.
      (2)   Development activities which increase the water surface elevation
of the base flood may be allowed; provided that the applicant first applies
with the county’s endorsement for a conditional flood insurance rate map and
floodway revision, and receives the approval of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   If §
8-44(A) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this article.
   (C)   The placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes) is prohibited,
except in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; provided the anchoring, elevation and
encroachment standards are met.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-43 STANDARDS FOR THE SPECIAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Special Floodplain District.
   (A)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no new construction,
substantial improvements or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within the areas of special flood hazard, designated as Zones A1-30
and AE on the flood insurance rate map, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the county.
   (B)   Development activities in Zones A1-30, AE and AH, on the flood
insurance rate map which increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
by more than one foot may be allowed; provided that the applicant first
applies, with the county’s endorsement, for a conditional flood insurance rate
map revision and receives the approval of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-44 STANDARDS FOR APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN.
   The following provisions shall apply with the Approximated Floodplain
District.
   (A)   The Approximated Floodplain District shall be that floodplain area for
which no detailed flood profiles or elevations are provided, but where a 100-
year floodplain boundary has been approximated. Such areas are shown as Zone A
on the maps accompanying the flood insurance study. For these areas, the 100-
year flood elevations and floodway information from federal, state and other
acceptable sources shall be used, when available. Where the specific 100-year
flood elevation cannot be determined for this area using other sources of data,
such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Floodplain Information Reports, U.S.
Geological Survey Flood-Prone Quadrangles and the like, then the applicant for
the proposed use, development and/or activity shall determine this elevation.
For development proposed in the approximate floodplain, the applicant must use
technical methods that correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts,
such as point on boundary, high water marks or hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough review by the County Building Code
Official.
   (B)   (1)   The County Building Code Official reserves the right to require
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses for any development.
      (2)   When such base flood elevation data is utilized, the lowest floor
shall be elevated to or above the base flood level with a freeboard of greater
than one foot. During the permitting process, the County Building Code Official
shall obtain:
         (a)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including the basement) of
all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure has been flood-proofed in accordance with the
requirements of this article, the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the structure has been flood-proofed.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-45 STANDARDS FOR THE SHALLOW FLOODING DISTRICT.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Shallow Flooding District.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the flood depth specified on the flood insurance rate map, above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the FIRM. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent
grade with a freeboard greater than one foot above the flood depth level.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
flood depth specified on the flood insurance rate map, above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
FIRM. If no flood depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade
with a freeboard greater than one foot above the flood depth level; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to the specified flood level so that any space below
that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be provided
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 8-46 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development proposals (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) that exceed 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§§ 8-47—8-55 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. VARIANCES; FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED
§ 8-56 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Variances shall be issued only upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, after the Board of Zoning Appeals has determined that failure to grant
the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and after
the Board of Zoning Appeals has determined that the granting of such variance
will not result in unacceptable or prohibited increases in flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, and will not
create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or conflict with
local laws or ordinances.
   (B)   While the granting of variances generally is limited to a lot size
less than one-half acre, deviations from that limitation may occur. However, as
the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing a variance increases. Variances may be issued by the Board
of Zoning Appeals for new construction and substantial improvements to be
erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, in
conformance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided that the criteria of this section are met,
and the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety.
   (D)   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall satisfy all relevant factors and procedures specified in other
sections of the zoning ordinance and consider the following additional factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments. No variance shall be granted for any
proposed use, development or activity within any floodway district that will
cause any increase in the 100-year flood elevation;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access by ordinary and emergency vehicles to the
property in time of flood;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site;
      (12)   The historic nature of a structure. Variances for repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures may be granted upon a determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may refer any application and accompanying
documentation pertaining to any request for a variance to any engineer or other
qualified person or agency for technical assistance in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, and the adequacy of the
plans for flood protection and other related matters.
   (F)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the granting of such will not result in unacceptable or
prohibited increases in flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, and will not create nuisances, cause fraud or
victimization of the public, or conflict with local laws or ordinances.
   (G)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the variance will be the minimum required to provide relief.
   (H)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify the applicant for a variance,
in writing and signed by title of appropriate public official, that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the 100-year flood
elevation increases the risks to life and property, and will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance.
   (I)   A record shall be maintained of the above notification, as well as all
variance actions, including justification for the issuance of the variances.
Any variances that are issued shall be noted in the annual or biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§§ 8-57—8-65 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. EXISTING STRUCTURES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 8-66 GENERALLY.
   A structure or use of a structure or premises which lawfully existed before
the enactment of these provisions, but which is not in conformity with these
provisions, may be continued subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Existing structures in the floodway area shall not be expanded or
enlarged, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the
proposed expansion would not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
   (B)   Any modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement of
any kind to a structure and/or use located in any floodplain areas to an extent
or amount of less than 50% of its market value shall conform to the VA USBC,
being VA Code Title 36, Chapter 6.
   (C)   The modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement of
any kind to a structure and/or use, regardless of its location in a floodplain
area to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with this chapter and shall require the
entire structure to conform to the VA USBC.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
CHAPTER 9: LIBRARIES
Section
Article I. In General
   
9-1—9-10      Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Local and regional libraries, see VA Code §§ 42.1-33 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 9-1—9-10 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 10: LICENSES
Section
Article I. In General
   
10-1   Carnivals, animal shows and the like
   
10-2—10-11   Reserved
Article II. Vehicle Licenses
   
10-12   Definitions
   
10-13   Violations of article
   
10-14   Exemptions from article
   
10-15   Required
   
10-16   License year
   
10-17   Application
   
10-18   Fee generally
   
10-19   Proration of fee
   
10-20   Waiver of fee for disabled veterans
   
10-21   Issuance generally
   
10-22   Payment of personal property taxes prerequisite to issuance
   
10-23   Display of expired license
   
10-24   Transfer
   
10-25   Duplicate license
   
10-26   Credit for town license fee or tax
   
10-27   Records to be kept
   
10-28—10-33 Reserved
Article III. License for Amusement Machine Operators
   
10-34   Definitions
   
10-35   Violations of article
   
10-36   Required
   
10-37   Application
   
10-38   Tax imposed
   
10-39   Issuance; display of stickers
   
10-40   Operator to furnish list of machines
   
10-41   Operator’s records
   
10-42   Expiration and renewal
Statutory reference:
   License taxes, see VA Code §§ 58.1-3700 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 10-1 CARNIVALS, ANIMAL SHOWS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall exhibit in the county any performance in a side show,
dog or pony show, trained animal show, carnival, circus, menagerie, or any
other show, exhibition or performance similar thereto, without first obtaining
a license so to do and paying therefor a license tax of $50 per day or any
fraction of a day. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of the Revenue to
collect such tax, issue the license and account to the county for the taxes so
collected.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to shows, performances or exhibitions
conducted by charitable, benevolent or educational organizations.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 6-15-1938)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for tax, see VA Code § 58.1-3728
§§ 10-2—10-11 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. VEHICLE LICENSES
§ 10-12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes, but is not limited to, every automobile, truck,
motorcycle, moped, motor scooter, trail bike or like or similar vehicle.
   TRAILER and SEMI-TRAILER. The meanings as ascribed to them in VA Code §
46.2-100.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-13 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, a violation of any provision of this
article shall constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor. No license shall be issued
under this article for the motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer involved with
the violation until satisfactory evidence is produced that any fine imposed for
the violation has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 4 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§ 10-14 EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to tractors, road
rollers and road machinery used for highway purposes, tractor engines,
locomotive engines, electric cars running on rails, motor vehicles owned by the
state or by any political subdivision of the state or by the United States, or
vehicles held for sale in the ordinary course of business by a manufacturer or
dealer.
   (B)   No person shall be required to pay upon any motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer the license fee imposed by this article when:
      (1)   The vehicle is owned by a non-resident of the county and is used
exclusively for pleasure or personal transportation and not for hire, or for
the conduct of any business or occupation other than that set forth in
subsection (B)(3) below;
      (2)   The vehicle is owned by a non-resident and is used for transporting
into and within the county, for sale, wood, meats or eggs produced or grown by
vehicle owner;
      (3)   The vehicle is owned by an officer or employee of the state who is
a non-resident of the county and who uses the vehicle in the performance of his
or her duties for the state under an agreement for such use; or
      (4)   The vehicle is operated by a common carrier of persons or property
or property operating between cities and towns in this state and not in intra-
county transportation.
(Prior Code, § 10-14) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-15 REQUIRED.
   Every motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer which is normally garaged,
stored or parked in the county shall be currently licensed under the provisions
of this article. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or normally
garage, store or park within the county, or for any owner thereof, to knowingly
permit the operation or normal garaging, storing or parking within the county
of any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer which is not currently licensed
under this article.
(Prior Code, § 10-15) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-16 LICENSE YEAR.
   The license year under the terms of this chapter shall commence on November
1 beginning November 1, 2019 and shall expire on October 31 of the following
calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10-16) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981; Ord. passed 12-17-2019)
§ 10-17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person owning any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer which
is normally garaged, stored or parked within the county shall, on or before
October 31 of each year, make application for and procure a county vehicle
license for such motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer.
   (B)   If a person acquires a vehicle required to be licensed under this
article during the license year, application for the license shall be made and
the license procured within 30 days of the acquisition. Every new county
resident shall make application for and procure the license required by this
article within 30 days after establishing residency.
   (C)   Application for the license required by this article shall be made to
the County Treasurer on forms providing for the name and address of the owner
and a description of the motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer for which the
license is to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 10-17) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981; Ord. passed 12-17-2019)
§ 10-18 FEE GENERALLY.
   The annual fee for a license required by this article shall be as follows
for each license period beginning November 1, 2008 and each year thereafter:
 
Motor vehicles - automobiles and trucks           $30
Motor vehicles - motorcycles, scooters and mopeds $27.50
Trailers and semi-trailers                        $18
 
(Prior Code, § 10-18) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981; Ord. passed 6-29-1989; Ord.
passed 12-17-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 46.2-752(A)
§ 10-19 PRORATION OF FEE.
   Whenever a license is issued during the license year for a newly acquired
motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer, or for a motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer owned by a new resident, one-twelfth of the annual fee shall be
collected for each month remaining in the license year, including the month in
which the license is issued, such month to begin on the first day of the
calendar month.
(Prior Code, § 10-19) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-20 WAIVER OF FEE FOR DISABLED VETERANS.
   (A)   Disabled veterans who qualify for waiver of state vehicle registration
fees under VA Code § 46.2-739, are entitled to waiver of the county license fee
for one vehicle owned and used personally by such veteran.
   (B)   Eligible veterans must submit proof of state qualification when making
application for a county vehicle license. Waiver of the license fee in no way
affects the other provision of this article. (Prior Code, § 10-20) (Ord. passed
5-13-1981)
§ 10-21 ISSUANCE GENERALLY.
   Upon receipt of a proper application, payment of the prescribed fee and
compliance with all requirements of this article, the County Treasurer shall
issue a license for the vehicle described in the application.
(Prior Code, § 10-21) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-22 PAYMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   No motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall be licensed under this
article, unless the applicant for the license produces satisfactory evidence
that all personal property taxes upon the vehicle to be licensed have been paid
and satisfactory evidence that any delinquent motor vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer personal property taxes owing, for any tax year, the collection of
which is not barred by the five-year statute of limitations, have been paid
which have been properly assessed or are assessable against the applicant by
the county.
(Prior Code, § 10-22) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 46.2-752(C)
§ 10-23 DISPLAY OF EXPIRED LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer to display thereon a license issued under this article after the
expiration date of the license.
(Prior Code, § 10-24)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, VA Code § 46.2-752(G)
§ 10-24 TRANSFER.
   Any owner selling or transferring a motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer
licensed under the provisions of this article may have the license and the
registration number thereon invalidated and a new registration number assigned
to another motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer of like kind, and titled in
such owner’s name upon application to the County Treasurer on forms providing
for the name and address of the applicant and a description of the motor
vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer to which the license is to be transferred.
Such application shall be made within 30 days of the sale or transfer and
accompanied by the registration certificate and sufficient evidence of removal
of the decal from the previously registered vehicle and a fee of $1.
(Prior Code, § 10-25) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-25 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   If a license decal issued under the provisions of this article is lost or
mutilated or becomes illegible, the person who is entitled thereto shall make
immediate application for and obtain a duplicate thereof, upon furnishing to
the Treasurer, the registration certificate for the motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer and paying a fee of $1. Any person having once applied for and
received a duplicate or substitute license during the license year for which
the original license was issued shall not be entitled to apply for another
duplicate license, unless the Treasurer finds that such duplicate or substitute
license has been lost or mutilated without the fault of the person entitled
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-26) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§ 10-26 CREDIT FOR TOWN LICENSE FEE OR TAX.
   The owner of any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer subject to any town
motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer license fee or tax shall be entitled,
upon displaying satisfactory evidence that the town fee or tax has been paid,
to receive a credit on the fee imposed by the county under this article, to the
extent of the fee or tax paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-27) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 46.2-752(E)
§ 10-27 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The County Treasurer shall keep and maintain a record of all vehicle
licenses issued under this article.
(Prior Code, § 10-28) (Ord. passed 5-13-1981)
§§ 10-28—10-33 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. LICENSE FOR AMUSEMENT MACHINE OPERATORS
§ 10-34 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Any coin-operated machine, the purpose of which is to
provide amusement or entertainment. The term shall not include machines which
vend goods, wares and merchandise, or provide service only, viewing machines or
photomat machines or devices or machines affording rides to children or used
for the delivery of newspapers.
   AMUSEMENT OPERATOR. Any person leasing, renting or otherwise furnishing or
providing a coin-operated amusement machine in the county. The term shall not
include a person owning less than three such machines and operating such
machines on property owned or leased by such person.
(Prior Code, § 10-34) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code §§ 58.1-3720 and 58.1-3721
§ 10-35 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   Any person failing to obtain the license required by this article or
otherwise violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. In addition, any such violation may result in the forfeiture of
any machine found to be in violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-35) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 1 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3723
§ 10-36 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct the business of an amusement
operator, unless he has a current license so to do issued by the Commissioner
of the Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 10-36) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
§ 10-37 APPLICATION.
   Prior to operating any amusement machine in the county, every operator shall
file with the Commissioner of the Revenue an application for a license to place
amusement machines in service in the county. The application shall be signed by
the operator, if a natural person; in the case of an association or
partnership, by a member or partner; and in the case of a corporation, by an
executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to
sign the application.
(Prior Code, § 10-37) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
§ 10-38 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed, upon each amusement operator, an annual
license tax in the following amount:
      (1)   For the operation of ten or more amusement machines, the tax shall
be $200; and
      (2)   For the operation of less than ten amusement machines, the tax
shall be $20 per machine.
   (B)   In addition to the tax imposed by subsection (A) above, an annual
license tax is hereby imposed upon each amusement operator, in an amount equal
to $0.36 for each $100 of gross receipts received by such operator from
amusement machines operated within the county during the preceding calendar
year.
(Prior Code, § 10-38) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3720
§ 10-39 ISSUANCE; DISPLAY OF STICKERS.
   (A)   The Commissioner of the Revenue shall issue the license required by
this article which shall evidence the payment of the license tax.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of such license, there shall be further issued to
the operator a decal, sticker or other adhesive label, no less than one by two
inches in size, clearly denoting the operator’s name and address. Such decal,
sticker or other label shall be displayed on each machine in operation in the
county, in a conspicuous manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-39) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3722
§ 10-40 OPERATOR TO FURNISH LIST OF MACHINES.
   Each amusement operator shall furnish to the Commissioner of the Revenue a
complete list of all amusement machines on location and the address of each
location on or before January 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 10-40) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3722
§ 10-41 OPERATOR’S RECORDS.
   Every amusement operator shall maintain records showing gross receipts from
the operation of amusement machines in the county. The operator shall make such
records available for examination by the Commissioner of the Revenue at the
operator’s office or the office where such records are usually kept, and shall
make such records or their exact copies available at the Commissioner’s office
at the Commissioner’s request.
(Prior Code, § 10-41) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986)
§ 10-42 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   Each amusement operator’s license shall expire on December 31 of the year
obtained and must be renewed by January 31 of the following year. Any such
license obtained subsequent to January 31 shall be subject to a penalty in an
amount equal to 10% of the taxes imposed by this article. The penalty shall not
apply; however, to an amusement operator commencing business after January 31
of any year.
(Prior Code, § 10-42) (Ord. passed 1-1-1986); Miscellaneous
CHAPTER 11: OFFENSES; MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
11-1   Sunday sale of beer or wine
   
11-2   Loitering prohibited in or upon ground of county courthouse
§ 11-1 SUNDAY SALE OF BEER OR WINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer or wine within the
county between the hours of 12:00 p.m. on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. on the
following Monday.
   (B)   As used in this section, the terms “wine” and “beer” shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in VA Code Title 4.1, Chapter 1.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall have like effect upon the sale of
beverages defined in VA Code Title 4.1, Chapter 1.
   (D)   This section shall not affect the sale of wine or beer on passenger
trains while operating in interstate commerce, nor shall this section apply
within any area inside the corporate limits of any town.
   (E)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 7-7-1948; Ord. passed 6-4-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code Subtitle I, Chapter 1
§ 11-2 LOITERING PROHIBITED IN OR UPON GROUND OF COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Loitering is prohibited in the courthouse building or on the
courthouse grounds and is punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Loitering includes, but is not necessarily limited to, one or more of
the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the free, unhampered passage of persons lawfully in
the courthouse building or on the courthouse grounds;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in
the courthouse building or on the courthouse grounds;
      (3)   Remaining idle in essentially one location within the courthouse
building or on the courthouse grounds, without being able to establish or
having a legitimate business or purpose in remaining at such place, or by
conduct, exhibiting that absence of a lawful purpose in so remaining at such
place; or
      (4)   Refusing to move on when so requested by an officer of the law;
provided that the officer of the law has reasonably exercised his or her
authority under the circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace
and order.
(Ord. 20-001, passed 6-16-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 15.2-926
CHAPTER 12: PUBLIC PROCUREMENT
Section
   
12-1   Purposes and policies of chapter
   
12-2   Applicability of chapter
   
12-3   Definitions
   
12-4   Small purchases
   
12-5   Bidding generally
   
12-6   Bidding on state-aid projects
   
12-7   Exceptions to bidding requirement
   
12-8   Invitation for bids; public notice
   
12-9   Brand names
   
12-10   Bid bonds
   
12-11   Bid openings; bid acceptance and evaluation
   
12-12   Withdrawal or alteration of bids; late bids
   
12-13   Determination of lowest responsible bidder
   
12-14   Listing of subcontractors
   
12-15   Award of contract; tie bids
   
12-16   Performance and payment bonds
   
12-17   Action on performance bond
   
12-18   Action on payment bond
   
12-19   Alternative forms of security
   
12-20   Retainage on construction contracts
   
12-21   Employment discrimination by contractor prohibited
   
12-22   Debarment of prospective contractors
   
12-23   Legal actions by bidders, offerors or contractors
   
12-24   Ethics in public procurement
Statutory reference:
   Virginia Public Procurement Act, see VA Code Title 2.2, Chapter 43, Articles
1 through 6
§ 12-1 PURPOSES AND POLICIES OF CHAPTER.
   The underlying purposes and policies of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To provide for increased public confidence in the procedures followed
in public procurement;
   (B)   To ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who deal
with the procurement system of the county;
   (C)   To provide increased economy in county procurement activities and to
maximize to the fullest extent practicable the purchasing value of public funds
of the county;
   (D)   To foster effective broad based competition within the free enterprise
system;
   (E)   To provide safeguards for the maintenance of a procurement system of
quality and integrity; and
   (F)   To promote uniformity of procurement policies and procedures among the
various departments and offices of the county.
(Prior Code, § 12-1) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-2 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all officers appointed by the Board of
Supervisors and all departments and offices of the county.
(Prior Code, § 12-2) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION. Building, altering, repairing, improving or demolishing any
structure, building or highway, and any draining, dredging, excavation, grading
or similar work or improvement upon land.
   GOODS. All material, equipment, supplies, printing and automated data
processing hardware and software.
   INFORMALITY. A minor defect or variation of a bid or proposal from the exact
requirements of the invitation to bid, request for proposal, specifications or
bid form, which does not affect the price, quality, quantity or delivery
schedule for the goods, services or construction being procured and which does
not compromise the integrity of the competitive process.
   INSURANCE. A contract whereby, for a stipulated consideration, one party
undertakes to compensate the other for loss on a specified subject by specified
perils.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Work performed by an independent contractor within
the scope of the practice of accounting or auditing, appraising, architecture,
insurance consulting services, land surveying, law, management consulting
services, planning, professional engineering or similar professional services.
   SERVICES. Any work performed by an independent contractor wherein the
service rendered does not consist primarily of acquisition of equipment or
materials, or the rental of equipment, materials and supplies.
   SHELTERED WORKSHOP. A non-profit, work oriented rehabilitative facility with
a controlled working environment and individual goals which utilizes work
experience and related services for assisting the handicapped person to
progress toward normal living and a productive vocational status.
(Prior Code, § 12-3) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-4 SMALL PURCHASES.
   Verbal quotes will be allowed for any purchase under $2,000 aggregate cost;
provided written specifications or descriptions for the items to be purchased
are provided to each vendor and maintained in the records. A record of the
verbal quote shall be retained for audit purposes. This record shall list the
date, the person requesting the quote, the person contacted and the quote
given, either as a lump sum or in unit prices. All purchases $2,000 and over
aggregate cost will require written quotes; provided that purchases of $15,000
or more will be governed by the Virginia Public Procurement Act (VA Code Title
2.2, Chapter 43, Articles 1 through 6) and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-4) (Ord. passed 7-14-1989)
§ 12-5 BIDDING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any contract with a non-governmental contractor for the purchase or
lease of goods or for the purchase of services or construction, the
consideration for which is expected to exceed $10,000, shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder, or highest responsible bidder, where applicable,
such as where the county is leasing or selling public property or awarding
concession rights, after public advertisement and competition. The county shall
have the power to reject any and all bids.
   (B)   Any contract with a non-governmental contractor for the purchase or
lease of goods or for the purchase of services or construction, the
consideration for which is not expected to exceed $10,000, may be bid and
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, or highest responsible bidder, where
applicable, such as where the county is leasing or selling public property or
awarding concession rights, after public advertisement and competition. The
county shall have the power to reject any and all such bids. Small purchase
procedures shall provide for competition wherever practicable. No person who
has been engaged as an architect or engineer for a project shall be eligible to
bid on such contract or to have the same awarded to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-6 BIDDING ON STATE-AID PROJECTS.
   No contract for the construction of any building or for an addition to or
improvement of an existing building for which state funds of $100,000 or more,
either by appropriation, grant-in-aid or loan, are used or are to be used for
all or part of the cost of construction shall be let, except after competitive
bidding. The procedure for advertising for bids and letting of the contract
shall conform, mutatis mutandi, to the Virginia Public Procurement Act (VA Code
Title 2.2, Chapter 43, Article 1 through 6). No person shall be eligible to bid
on any such contract nor to have the same awarded to him or her who has been
engaged as an architect or engineer for the same project.
(Prior Code, § 12-6) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-7 EXCEPTIONS TO BIDDING REQUIREMENT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
12-5, public advertisement and competition shall not be required:
   (A)   Where there is only one source for the needed supply, service or
construction item;
   (B)   Where an emergency procurement is made pursuant to county procedure;
   (C)   Where insurance or professional services are being procured through
the process of competitive negotiation pursuant to VA Code § 2.2-4302.2;
   (D)   Where a purchase is made from a sheltered workshop; or
   (E)   Where expert witnesses or other services associated with litigation or
regulatory proceedings are being procured.
(Prior Code, § 12-7) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-8 INVITATION FOR BIDS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   For each purchase or lease of goods or purchase of services or
construction pursuant to §
12-5(A), an invitation for bids shall be issued which shall include in summary
fashion a purchase or lease description and a statement as to where relevant
contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement may be viewed.
   (B)   (1)   In each case in which public advertisement and competition is
required, bids shall be initiated by public notice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county, which notice shall be published at least once not
less than ten days prior to the date on which bids will be opened.
      (2)   The advertisement shall state the place where bidders may examine
any plans and specifications for the work, whether the contract will be let for
a lump sum or on a cost plus basis, the time and place where the bids for the
work will be opened, and the procedure for withdrawal of a bid. All
advertisements shall further note that the county may reject any and all bids.
In lieu of public advertising, bids may be solicited directly from at least
three potential contractors or vendors.
(Prior Code, § 12-8) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-9 BRAND NAMES.
   Unless otherwise provided in the invitation to bid, the name of a certain
brand, make or manufacturer does not restrict bidders to the specific brand,
make or manufacturer named. It conveys the general style, type, character and
quality of the article desired, and any article which the county, in its sole
discretion, determines to be the equal of that specified, considering quality,
workmanship, economy of operation and suitability for the purpose intended,
shall be accepted.
(Prior Code, § 12-9) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-10 BID BONDS.
   (A)   Except in cases of emergency, all bids or proposals for construction
contracts in excess of $25,000 shall be accompanied by a bid bond from a surety
company selected by the bidder which is legally authorized to do business in
the state, as a guarantee that if the contract is awarded to such bidder, the
bidder will enter into the contract for the work mentioned in the bid. The
amount of the bid bond shall not exceed 5% of the amount bid where a bid or
proposal is $25,000 or less.
   (B)   No forfeiture under a bid bond shall exceed the lesser of the
difference between the bid for which the bond was written and the next low bid
or the face amount of the bid bond.
(Prior Code, § 12-10) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-11 BID OPENINGS; BID ACCEPTANCE AND EVALUATION.
   (A)   All bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid, together with the name of each bidder, shall be recorded.
The record on each bid shall be open to public inspection.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided in this subsection (B), bids for any
purchase or lease of goods or purchase of services or construction anticipated
to be in excess of $10,000 shall be received and opened at a public meeting of
the Board of Supervisors. Thereafter, the chairperson may appoint a bid
committee to examine, tabulate, study and report with respect to such bids. Any
bid committee appointed by the chairperson shall report to the Board with an
appropriate recommendation for Board action with respect to the bids. In lieu
of opening of bids at a public meeting of the Board of Supervisors, the Board
may, by motion, provide for the public opening of bids before a committee
appointed by the chairperson, which shall study, tabulate and report to the
Board in accordance with this subsection (B) with respect to such bids. The
County Administrator may also report to the Board with respect to bids and make
an appropriate recommendation.
   (C)   In any case where a bid requires an appropriation to be made by the
Board of Supervisors, where a bid is for the award of a concession, or where
the low bid for purchase or lease of goods or purchase of services or
construction is in excess of $10,000, whether subject to the requirement of
opening at a public meeting of the Board or not, a report shall be made to the
Board by the County Administrator with an appropriate recommendation.
   (D)   (1)   All bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized by state law or this chapter.
      (2)   Bids shall be evaluated based on the requirements set forth in the
invitation for bids, which may include criteria to determine acceptability,
such as inspection, testing, quality, workmanship, delivery, suitability for a
particular purpose and life cycle cost. The county, in its sole discretion, may
elect to waive an informality in a bid or proposal.
(Prior Code, § 12-11) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-12 WITHDRAWAL OR ALTERATION OF BIDS; LATE BIDS.
   (A)   No bid shall be permitted to be withdrawn except in accordance with VA
Code § 2.2- 4345.
   (B)   No bidder shall be permitted to alter, modify or amend his or her bid
after the time fixed for submission of bids.
   (C)   No bid received after the time fixed for submission of bids shall be
opened or considered.
(Prior Code, § 12-12) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-13 DETERMINATION OF LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   To determine the lowest responsible bidder with respect to any goods,
services or construction, the following factors, among such others, as will
protect and preserve the interests of the county and its inhabitants, may be
considered:
   (A)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract
or provide the service required;
   (B)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
   (C)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
   (D)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
   (E)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract, purchase or service;
   (F)   The equipment and facilities available to the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service;
   (G)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder
to perform the contract or provide the service;
   (H)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, materials,
equipment or services to the particular use required;
   (I)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance, parts and
service for the use of the subject of the purchase or contract; and
   (J)   The amount and conditions, if any, of the bid.
(Prior Code, § 12-13) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-14 LISTING OF SUBCONTRACTORS.
   Any offeror submitting a bid in excess of $100,000 for a construction
contract shall include in his or her bid, in addition to the requirements set
forth in the invitation to bid or request for proposal, a list of each
subcontractor whose subcontract constitutes more than 10% of the bid amount and
the estimated percentage of the contract to be performed by each subcontractor.
(Prior Code, § 12-14) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-15 AWARD OF CONTRACT; TIE BIDS.
   The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness by written notice
to the lowest responsible bidder, or highest responsible bidder, where
applicable, such as where the county is leasing or selling public property,
whose bid meets the requirements, and criteria set forth in the invitation for
bids. If the contract is to be let on a cost plus basis, the contract may be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder naming the lower percent of fee. In
the case of a tie bid among responsible bidders, preference shall be given to
goods, services and construction produced in this county or provided by county
residents, if such choice is available; otherwise, the tie shall be decided by
lot.
(Prior Code, § 12-15) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-16 PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS.
   (A)   Upon the award of any public construction contract exceeding $25,000
to any prime contractor, such contractor shall furnish to the county the
following bonds:
      (1)   A performance bond in the sum of the contract amount conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the contract in strict conformity with the
plans, specifications and conditions of the contract; or
      (2)   A payment bond in the sum of the contract amount. Such bond shall
be for the protection of claimants who have and fulfill contracts to supply
labor or materials to the prime contractor to whom the contract was awarded, or
to any of his or her subcontractors, in the prosecution of the work provided
for in such contract, and shall be conditioned upon the prompt payment for all
such material furnished or labor supplied or performed in the prosecution of
the work. Labor or materials shall include public utility services and
reasonable rentals of equipment, but only for periods when the equipment rented
is actually used at the site.
   (B)   Each of the bonds shall be executed by one or more surety companies
selected by the contractor which are legally authorized to do business in the
state.
   (C)   Bonds required for county construction contracts shall be payable to
the county and shall be filed with the County Administrator.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the county from requiring
payment or performance bonds for construction contracts below $25,000 or for
contracts for goods or services in any amount.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall preclude a contractor from requiring
each subcontractor to furnish a payment bond with surety thereon, in the sum of
the full amount of the contract with the subcontractor, conditioned upon the
payment to all persons who have and fulfill contracts which are directly with
the subcontractor for performing labor, and furnishing materials in the
prosecution of the work provided for in the subcontract.
(Prior Code, § 12-16) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-17 ACTION ON PERFORMANCE BOND.
   No action against the surety on a performance bond shall be brought unless
within one year after completion of the contract, including the expiration of
all warranties and guarantees, or discovery of the defect or breach of
warranty, if the action be for such, in all other cases.
(Prior Code, § 12-17) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-18 ACTION ON PAYMENT BOND.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (B) below, any claimant who
has performed labor or furnished material in accordance with the contract
documents in the prosecution of the work provided in any contract for which a
payment bond has been given, and who has not been paid in full therefor before
the expiration of 90 days after the day on which such claimant performed the
last of such labor or furnished the last of such materials for which he or she
claims payment, may bring an action on such payment bond to recover any amount
due him or her for such labor or material, and may prosecute such action to
final judgment and have execution on the judgment. The obligee named in the
bond need not be named a party to such action.
   (B)   Any claimant who has a direct contractual relationship with any
subcontractor from whom the contractor has not required a subcontractor payment
bond under § 12-16(E), but who has no contractual relationship, express or
implied, with the contractor, may bring an action on the contractor’s payment
bond only if he or she has given written notice to the contractor within 180
days from the day on which the claimant performed the last of the labor or
furnished the last of the materials for which he or she claims payment, stating
with substantial accuracy, the amount claimed and the name of the person for
whom the work was performed or to whom the material was furnished. Any claimant
who has a direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor from whom the
contractor has required a subcontractor payment bond under §
12-16(E), but who has no contractual relationship, express or implied, with the
contractor, may bring an action on the subcontractor’s payment bond. Notice to
the contractor shall be served by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, in an envelope addressed to the contractor at any place where his or
her office is regularly maintained for the transaction of business. Claims for
sums withheld as retainage with respect to labor performed or materials
furnished shall not be subject to the time limitations stated in this
subsection (B).
   (C)   Any action on a payment bond must be brought within one year after the
day on which the person bringing such action last performed labor or last
furnished or supplied materials.
(Prior Code, § 12-18) (Ord passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-19 ALTERNATIVE FORMS OF SECURITY.
   (A)   In lieu of a bid, payment or performance bond, a bidder, offeror or
contractor may furnish a certified check or cash escrow in the face amount
required for the bond.
   (B)   If approved by the County Attorney, a bidder may furnish a personal
bond, property bond or bank or saving and loan association’s letter of credit
on certain designated funds in the face amount required for the bid bond.
Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the alternative form
of security proffered affords protection to the county equivalent to a
corporate surety’s bond.
(Prior Code, § 12-19) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-20 RETAINAGE ON CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS.
   (A)   In any public contract for construction which provides for progress
payments in installments based upon an estimated percentage of completion, the
contractor shall be paid at least 95% of the earned sum when payment is due,
with not more than 5% being retained to assure faithful performance of the
contract. All amounts withheld may be included in the final payment.
   (B)   Any subcontract for a public project which provides for similar
progress payments shall be subject to the same limitations.
(Prior Code, § 12-20) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-21 EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION BY CONTRACTOR PROHIBITED.
   Every contract over $10,000 to which the county is a party shall contain the
following provisions.
   (A)   During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as
follows.
      (1)   The contractor will not discriminate against any subcontractor,
employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, color, sex or
national origin, except where religion, sex or national origin is a bona fide
occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the
contractor. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to
employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions
of this non-discrimination clause.
      (2)   The contractor, in all solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, will state that such
contractor is an equal employment opportunity employer.
      (3)   Notices, advertisements and solicitations placed in accordance with
federal law, rule or regulation shall be deemed sufficient for the purpose of
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (B)   The contractor will include the provisions of the foregoing in every
subcontract or purchase order of over $10,000, so that the provisions will be
binding upon each subcontractor or vendor.
(Prior Code, § 12-21) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-22 DEBARMENT OF PROSPECTIVE CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Prospective contractors may be debarred from contracting for
particular types of supplies, services, insurance or construction for specified
periods of time.
   (B)   Any debarment procedure, which may provide for debarment on the basis
of a contractor’s unsatisfactory performance for the county or for violation of
federal or state laws relating to anti-trust or federal or state law or local
ordinance relating to procurement, shall be established in writing by the
County Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-22) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-23 LEGAL ACTIONS BY BIDDERS, OFFERORS OR CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   A bidder or offeror, actual or prospective, who is refused permission
or disqualified from participation in bidding or who is determined not to be a
responsible bidder or offeror for a particular contract, may bring an action in
the Circuit Court challenging that decision, which shall be reversed only if
the petitioner establishes that the decision was arbitrary or capricious.
   (B)   A bidder denied withdrawal of a bid under VA Code § 2.2-4345, may
bring an action in the Circuit Court challenging that decision, which shall be
reversed only if the bidder establishes that the decision of the county was
clearly erroneous.
   (C)   A bidder, offeror or contractor may bring an action in the Circuit
Court challenging a proposed award or the award of a contract, which shall be
reversed only if the petitioner establishes that the proposed award or the
award is not an honest exercise of discretion, but rather is arbitrary or
capricious or not in accordance with the Constitution of Virginia, statutes,
regulations or the terms and conditions of the invitation to bid or request for
proposal.
   (D)   If injunctive relief is granted, the court, upon request of the
county, shall require the posting of reasonable security to protect the county.
   (E)   A contractor may bring an action involving a contract dispute with the
county in the Circuit Court.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Board of
Supervisors from instituting legal action against a contractor.
(Prior Code, § 12-23) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
§ 12-24 ETHICS IN PUBLIC PROCUREMENT.
   The provisions of VA Code Title 2.2, Chapter 4, Article 6, relating to
ethics in public procurement, shall apply to all procurement by the county.
Willful violation of any provision of any such section constitutes a Class 1
misdemeanor by state law. In case of conviction therefor of any county
employee, in addition to any fine or penalty provided by law, such employee
shall forfeit his or her employment.
(Prior Code, § 12-24) (Ord. passed 3-2-1983)
CHAPTER 13: SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
13-1   Purpose
   
13-2   Scope
   
13-3   Administration
   
13-4   Fees and charges
   
13-5   Inspections
   
13-6   Vandalism
   
13-7   Severability
   
13-8   Amendments of chapter
   
13-9   Conflicts
   
13-10—13-18   Reserved
Article II. Definitions
   
13-19   Specific definitions
   
13-20   General definitions
   
13-21—31-29   Reserved
Article III. Use of Treatment Works and Treatment Facility
   
13-30   Waste disposal
   
13-31   Wastewater discharges
   
13-32   Wastewater disposal
   
13-33   Connection to treatment works required
   
3-34—13-42   Reserved
Article IV. Building Sewers and Connections
   
13-43   Connection permit
   
13-44   Connection costs
   
13-45   Separate connections required
   
13-46   Existing building sewers
   
13-47   Building sewer design
   
13-48   Building sewer elevation
   
13-49   Surface run-off and groundwater drains
   
13-50   Conformance to applicable codes
   
13-51   Connection inspection
   
13-52   Excavation guards and property restoration
   
13-53   Protections of capacity for existing users
   
13-54—13-62   Reserved
Article V. Conditions to Use the County’s Treatment Works
   
13-63   Special uses of treatment works
   
13-64   Industrial user; general prohibition upon
   
13-65   Restricted discharges
   
13-66   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
13-67   Special agreements
   
13-68   Water and energy conservation
   
13-69   Excessive discharge
   
13-70   Accidental discharges (slug load)
   
13-71—13-79   Reserved
Article VI. Industrial Dischargers
   
13-80   Information requirements
   
13-81   User permits
   
13-82   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
13-83   Provision for monitoring
   
13-84   Costs of damage
   
13-85—13-93   Reserved
Article VII. Pretreatment
   
13-94   Wastewaters with special characteristics
   
13-95   Compliance with pretreatment requirements
   
13-96   Monitoring requirements
   
13-97   Effect of federal law
   
13-98   Certification
   
13-99—13-107   Reserved
Article VIII. Wastewater Service Charges and Industrial Cost Recovery
   
13-108   Wastewater service charges
   
13-109   Industrial cost recovery
   
13-110   Determination of system use
   
13-111—13-119   Reserved
Article IX. Enforcement
   
13-120   Harmful contributions
   
13-121   Revocation of permit
   
13-122   Notification of violation
   
13-123   Show cause hearing
   
13-124   Legal action
   
13-125   Penalties
   
13-126   Falsifying information
Statutory reference:
   General authority of county relative to sewers and sewage disposal, see VA
Code Title 15.2, Subtitle II
   Sewage disposal generally, see VA Code §§ 32.1-163 et seq.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum possible
beneficial public use of the county wastewater treatment works through
regulation of sewer construction, sewer use and wastewater discharges to
provide for equitable distribution of the costs of the treatment works and to
provide procedures for complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-2 SCOPE.
   (A)   The definition of terms used in this chapter are found in §
13-19. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the discharge of all
wastewater to treatment works of the county. This chapter provides for use of
the county’s treatment works, regulation of sewer construction, control of the
quantity and quality of wastewater discharged, wastewater pretreatment,
equitable distribution of costs, assurance that existing customers’ capacity
will not be preempted, approval of sewer construction plans, issuance of user
permit, minimum sewer connection standards and conditions, and penalties and
other procedures in cases of violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to the county and to persons outside the
county who are, by contract, permit or agreement with the county and users of
the county’s treatment works.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-3 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the County Administrator or his or her
designate shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-4 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the county or its designated agent. Such fees and charges
shall be as set forth herein or as established in the latest edition of the
county’s treatment works user charge ordinance or the fee structure established
and imposed by the County Public Service Authority.
   (B)   All user fees, penalties and charges collected under this chapter (and
the treatment works user charge ordinance) shall be used for the sole purpose
of constructing, operating or maintaining the treatment works of the county, or
the retirement of debt incurred for same.
   (C)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter are
due and payable upon the receipt of notice of charges. Unpaid charges shall
become delinquent and shall be subject to penalty and interest charges as
provided for in the latest edition of the county’s treatment works user charge
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-5 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator or authorized state or federal officials, bearing
the proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
premises where an effluent source or treatment system is located at any
reasonable time for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and/or copying records of the wastewater discharge to ensure that
discharge to the treatment works is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Administrator, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private property through which
the county holds as easement for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any of the county’s treatment
works lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and any subsequent work on the easement shall be done in
full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to the private
property involved.
   (C)   While performing any necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsections (A) and (B) above, the Administrator shall observe all safety
and occupational rules established by the owner or occupant of the property and
applicable to the premises.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-6 VANDALISM.
   No persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the county’s treatment works. Any person who
violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $250.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-7 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of these regulations or the application of any provision of
these regulations to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, and the
remainder of the regulations, shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-8 AMENDMENTS OF CHAPTER.
   Public notice shall be given in accordance with applicable provisions of the
Charter, other county ordinances, or state and federal law, prior to adoption
of any amendments of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-9 CONFLICTS.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-10—13-18 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 13-19 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the county wastewater system(s) or an
authorized designee.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Executive Director of the State Water Control Board.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or sole proprietorship respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
subsections (1) or (2) above, if such representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge to the POTW
originates. The authorization must be submitted to the Manager prior to or
together with an report to be signed by the authorized representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantify of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from a building wastewater plumbing facility
to the treatment works.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(a) and 307(c) of the Act, being 44 U.S. §§ 1317(a) and 1317(b), which
apply to specific category of industrial users which appear in 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COUNTY TREATMENT WORKS. Any wastewater treatment facilities owned and
operated by the county or the County Public Service Authority.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   DISCHARGER. Person or persons, firm, company, industry or other similar
sources of wastewater who introduce such into the POTW.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any industrial establishment, mill, factory, tannery, paper
or pulp mill, coal mine, colliery, breaker or coal processing operations,
quarry, oil refinery, boat, vessel, and each and every other industry or plant,
or works the operation of which produces industrial wastes or other wastes, or
which may otherwise alter the physical, chemical or biological properties of
any state waters.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S. § 1317.
   GARBAGE. The solid animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the domestic
or commercial handling, storage, dispensing, preparation, cooking and serving
of foods.
   GROUND WATER. Any water beneath the land surface in the zone of saturation.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of non-domestic pollutants into the
POTW from an non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, being 33 U.S. § 1317.
   INDUSTRIAL USER OR SIGNIFICANT DISCHARGER (CLASS II). A source of indirect
discharge or a non-domestic discharge to a treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid or other wastes resulting from any process of
industry, manufacture, trade or business, or from the development of any
natural resources.
   INTERFERENCE. An inhibition or disruption of the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or it sludge process, which clearly causes, in whole
or in part, a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s VPDES per mile,
including those discharges that prevent the use or disposal of sludge by the
POTW in accordance with any federal or state laws, regulations, permits or
sludge management plans.
   MAY is permissible. SHALL is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, county, town, district association, authority or other
public body created under the law and having jurisdiction over disposal of
sewage, industrial or other wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or any
other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. The same meaning as provided in 40 C.F.R. § 403(m)(l)(2005).
   OWNER. The commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions, including, but
not limited to, sanitation district commissions and authorities, and public or
private institution, corporation, association, firm or company organized or
existing under the laws of this or any other state or country, or any person or
group of persons acting individually or as a group.
   PASS-THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants through a POTW into state waters
in quantities or concentrations which are a cause, in whole or in part, of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW’s VPDES permit, including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, partnership,
corporation, governmental entity or other similar organization, agency or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution as determined by standard methods.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical waste, chemical waste, industrial
waste, biological materials, radio active material, heat wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial waste, and the
characteristics of the wastewater (such as, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity,
color, BOD, COD, toxicity and odor).
   POTW (PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). Any sewage treatment works that is
owned by a state or municipality. Sewers pipes or other conveyances are
included in this definition only if they convey wastewater to a POTW providing
treatment.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to discharge to the county treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed or any industrial user, other than a pretreatment
standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being 33
U.S. § 1317(b) and (c), which applies to industrial users.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES or PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS. Absolute
prohibition against the discharge of certain substances. These prohibitions
appear in § 13-65.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely under flow conditions normally
prevailing in the treatment works, with no particle greater than one-half inch
in any dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL USER (CLASS I). All premises used only for human residency and
which is connected to the treatment works.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. Wastewater discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, office buildings, industrial plants or institutions.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Has a process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
work day (excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow-down
wastewater);
      (2)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW;
      (3)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (4)   Has significant impact, either singularly or in combination with
other significant dischargers, on the treatment works or the quality of its
effluent.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standard in § 13-65 or any discharge of a
non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to, an accidental spill
or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
Water Pollution Control Federation and American Water Works Association.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Virginia.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying storm, surface and other waters, which is
not intended to be transported to a treatment works.
   SURFACE WATER.
      (1)   All waters which are currently used, were used in the past or may
be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce, including all waters
which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters, such as inter/intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mudflats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, play lakes, or natural ponds the use,
degradation, or destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or
foreign commerce including any such waters:
         (a)   Which are or could be used by interstate or foreign travelers
for recreational or other purposes;
         (b)   From which fish or shellfish are or could be taken and sold in
interstate or foreign commerce; or
         (c)   Which are used or could be used for industrial purposes by
industries in interstate commerce.
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as surface waters
under this definition;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in subsections (1) through (4) of
this definition;
      (6)   The territorial sea; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters, other than waters that are themselves
wetlands, identified in subsections (1) through (6) of this definition.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater as determined by
standard methods.
   TOXICS. Any of the pollutants designated by federal regulations pursuant to
§ 307(a)(1) of the Act, being 33 U.S. § 1317(a)(1).
   TREATMENT FACILITY. Only those mechanical power drive devices necessary for
the transmission and treatment of pollutants (such as, pump stations and unit
treatment processes).
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems used for the storage, treatment,
recycling and/or reclamation of sewage or liquid industrial waste, or other
waste necessary to recycle or reuse water, including intercepting sewers,
outfall sewer, sewage collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power,
and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
remodeling, additions or alterations; and any works, including land that will
be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal
of residues resulting from such treatment; or any other method or system used
for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separation or disposing
of municipal waste, or industrial waste, including waste in combined sewer
water and sanitary sewer systems.
   USER. A source of wastewater discharge into a POTW.
   USER PERMIT. A document issued by the POTW to the user that permits the
connection and/or introduction of wastes into the treatment works under the
provisions of this chapter.
   VPDES. Virginia Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program, as
administered by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together with
any groundwater, surface water or stormwater that may be present.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-20 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context of usage indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms in
this chapter and not defined in §
13-19, shall be as defined in the Glossary Water and Wastewater Control
Engineering prepared by Joint Editorial Board of the American Public Health
Association, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Water Works
Association and Water Pollution Control Federation, copyright 1969.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-21—13-29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. USE OF TREATMENT WORKS AND TREATMENT FACILITY
§ 13-30 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any condition that may be considered as an unsanitary or
unhygienic manner on public or private property within the county, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said county, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-31 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful under state and federal law to discharge without a
VPDES permit to any natural outlet within the county, or in any area under its
jurisdiction. Wastewater discharges to the county’s treatment works are not
authorized unless permitted by the Administrator in accordance with provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-32 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-33 CONNECTION TO TREATMENT WORKS REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building or property which is used for commercial,
industrial and/or residential purposes, abutting on any street, alley or
rights-of-way in which there is or may be located a sewer connected to the
treatment works of the county, is required, at the owner’s expense, to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly to
the proper sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 30
days after notice that sewer is available within 200 feet of the property line.
This section shall not apply to any person served by a privately constructed,
owned, operated and maintained sewer disposal system which discharges directly
to a natural outlet in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-34—13-42 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 13-43 CONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   No persons shall uncover, make any connections with, use, alter or
disturb any wastewater sewer or a storm sewer without first obtaining a written
permit from the Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of permits for connections to the
county’s treatment works and treatment facilities:
         (a)   Class I Residential; and
         (b)   Class II Industrial.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner shall make application for a permit to
connect to the county’s treatment works on a form furnished by the county or
the County Public Service Authority. The permit application shall be
supplemented by wastewater information required to administer this chapter. A
permit and inspection fee as determined by the county shall be paid at the time
the application is filed.
   (C)   Connections to a storm sewer shall be subject to a permit and
inspection fee as determined by the county. Such connection shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter and the approval of the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-44 CONNECTION COSTS.
   The costs and expenses incidental to the building sewer installation and
connection to the county’s treatment works shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the county or the County Public Service Authority from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-45 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer serving the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer. The county assumes no obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single building sewer
that serves two buildings.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-46 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers may be used for connection of new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and testing by the Administrator to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-47 BUILDING SEWER DESIGN.
   The size, slope, alignment, construction materials, trench excavation and
backfill methods, pipe placement, pointing, and testing methods used in the
construction and installation of a building sewer shall conform to the Building
and Plumbing Code or other applicable requirements of the county. In the
absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-48 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever practicable, the building sewer shall be brought to a building at
an elevation below the basement floor. In buildings in which any building drain
is to low to permit gravity flow to the county’s treatment works, wastewater
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to a building sewer draining to the county sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-49 SURFACE RUN-OFF AND GROUNDWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   No persons shall connect roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot,
roadway or other surface run-off or groundwater drains to any sewer that is
connected to a treatment works, unless such connection is authorized in writing
by the Administrator. The connection of such drains shall conform to code
specified in §
13-50 or as specified by the Administrator as a condition of approval of such
connection.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (A) above, roof, foundation, areaway,
parking lot, roadway or other surface run-off or groundwater drains shall
discharge to natural outlets or storm sewers.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-50 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE CODES.
   The connection of a building sewer into a treatment works shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable
requirements of the county, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the Commonwealth of Virginia Sewerage Regulations, Uniform
Building Code of Virginia and American Society of Testing Materials. The
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved in writing by the Administrator before installation.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-51 CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   The applicant for a building sewer or other drainage connection permit shall
notify the Administrator when such sewer or drainage connection is ready for
inspection prior to its connection to the county’s treatment works. Such
connection inspections and testing as deemed necessary shall be made by the
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-52 EXCAVATION GUARDS AND PROPERTY RESTORATION.
   Excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the courts or the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the county.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-53 PROTECTIONS OF CAPACITY FOR EXISTING USERS.
   The Administrator shall not issue a permit for any class of connection to
the county’s treatment works or treatment facilities, unless there is
sufficient capacity, not legally committed to other users, in the treatment
works and treatment facilities to convey and adequately treat the quantity of
wastewater that the requested connection will add to the treatment works or
treatment facility. The Administrator may permit such a connection if there are
legally binding commitments to provide the needed capacity.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-54—13-62 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. CONDITIONS TO USE THE COUNTY’S TREATMENT WORKS
§ 13-63 SPECIAL USES OF TREATMENT WORKS.
   All discharges of stormwater, surface, water, groundwater, roof run-off,
subsurface drainage or other waters not intended to be treated in the treatment
facility shall be made to storm sewers or natural outlets designed for such
discharges, except as authorized under §
13-49. Any connection drain or arrangement which will permit any such waters to
enter any other sewer shall be deemed to be a violation of this action and this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-64 INDUSTRIAL USER; GENERAL PROHIBITION UPON.
   An industrial user shall not introduce any pollutants into the county’s
treatment works that will pass through or interfere with the operation or
performance of the treatment facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-65 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any of the
county’s treatment works any substances, materials, waters or wastes in such
quantities or concentrations which do or are likely to:
      (1)   Create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW including, but not
limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas, waste treatment with a closed cup flashpoint
of less than 140ºF or 60ºC using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Cause corrosive damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
personnel of the wastewater facilities, but in no case discharges having a pH
lower than 5.0 or greater than 11.0;
      (3)   Cause obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the operation of treatment facilities due to accumulation of solid or viscous
materials;
      (4)   Constitute a rate of discharge or substantial deviation from normal
rates of discharge (slug discharge), sufficient to cause interference in the
operation and performance of the treatment facilities;
      (5)   Contain heat in amounts which are likely to accelerate the
biodegradation of wastes, causing the formation of excessive amounts of
hydrogen sulfide in the treatment works or inhibit biological activity in the
treatment facilities, but in no case shall the discharge of heat cause the
temperature in the wastewater sewer to exceed 65ºC (150ºF) or the temperature
of the influent to the treatment facilities to exceed 40ºC (104ºF), unless the
facilities can accommodate such heat and the county has obtained prior approval
from the approval authority;
      (6)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of non-biodegradable
oils of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (7)   Contain floatable oils, fat or grease;
      (8)   Contain toxic gases, vapors of fumes, malodorous gas or substance
in quantifies that may cause a public nuisance or cause acute human health or
safety problems;
      (9)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as defined by
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (11)   Contain any odor or color producing substances exceeding
concentration limits which may be established by the Administrator for purposes
of meeting the county’s VPDES permit;
      (12)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through; or
      (13)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at designated discharge
points.
   (B)   If in establishing discharge restrictions, discharge limits or
pretreatment standards pursuant to this article, the Administrator establishes
concentration limits to be met by a user, the Administrator in lieu of
concentration limits, may establish mass limits of comparable stringency for an
individual user at the request of such user. Upon approval by the state, such
limits should become pretreatment standards.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-66 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any treatment
works, wastewaters containing substances subject to an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard promulgated by EPA in excess of the quantity prescribed
in such applicable pretreatment standards, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Compliance with such applicable pretreatment standards shall be within
three years of the date the standard is promulgated; provided, however,
compliance with a categorical pretreatment standard for new sources shall be
required upon commencement of discharge to the treatment works.
   (B)   The Administrator shall notify any industrial user affected by the
provisions of this section and establish an enforceable compliance schedule for
each.
   (C)   No persons shall discharge trucked hazardous wastes to the county’s
treatment works.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-67 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing any agreement or
arrangement between the county and any user of the treatment works and
treatment facility whereby wastewater of unusual strength or character (only in
terms of BOD and/or suspended solids) is accepted into the system and specially
treated subject to additional payments or user charges as may be applicable.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-68 WATER AND ENERGY CONSERVATION.
   The conservation of water and energy shall be encouraged by the
Administrator. In established discharge restrictions upon users, the
Administrator shall take into account already implemented or planned
conservation steps revealed by the user. Upon request, each user will provide
the Administrator with pertinent information showing that the quantities of
substances or pollutants have not been and will not be increased as a result of
the conservation steps. Upon such a showing to the satisfaction of the
Administrator, he or she shall make adjustments to discharge restrictions,
which have been based on concentrations to reflect the conservation steps.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-69 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial of complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards or in any other pollutant, specific
limitation development by the county or the state.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-70 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES (SLUG LOAD).
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge or prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the county for review and shall be approved by the county before
construction of the facility. No user who commences contribution to the POTW
after the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been
approved by the county. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the
case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification
shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume
and corrective actions.
   (B)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Administrator a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the treatment works and treatment facility, fish kills or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this
article or other applicable article.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause of
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-71—13-79 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGERS
§ 13-80 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All industrial dischargers shall file with the county wastewater
information deemed necessary by the Administrator for determination of
compliance with this chapter, the county’s VPDES permit conditions, and state
and federal law. Such information shall be provided by completion of a
questionnaire designed and supplied by the Administrator and by supplements
thereto as may be necessary. Information requested in the questionnaire and
designated by the discharger as confidential is subject to the conditions of
confidentiality as set out in subsection (C) below.
   (B)   Where a person owns, operates or occupies properties designated as an
industrial discharger at more than one location, separate information
submittals shall be made for each location as may be required by the
Administrator.
   (C)   (1)   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits, monitoring programs and
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the county that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. When requested by the
person furnishing a report, the portions of a report which might disclose trade
secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the
public, but shall be made available upon written request to governmental
agencies of uses related to this chapter. The Virginia Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (VPDES) permit, state disposal system permit and/or the
pretreatment programs provides however, that such portions of a report shall be
available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review of
enforcement proceeding involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
      (2)   Information accepted by the county as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the county
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-81 USER PERMITS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or to
contribute to the treatment works shall obtain a user permit before connecting
to or contributing to the treatment works. All existing significant industrial
users connected to or contributing to the treatment works shall obtain a user
permit within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Significant industrial users required to obtain a permit shall
complete and file with the county an application in the form prescribed by the
county and accompanied by a fee of $250. Existing significant industrial users
shall apply for a permit within 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter and proposed new significant industrial users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the treatment works. In support
of the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standards Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1987, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in § 13-65, as determined by a reliable analytical
laboratory (sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained
in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended);
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge. A
statement identifying the applicable pretreatment standards and requirements
and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis; and if not, whether additional O & M and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such as, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in subsection (A)(9)(a) above shall
exceed nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Administrator, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Administrator.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the county to be
necessary to evaluate the user’s permit application.
   (B)   The county will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the county may issue a user permit subject to terms and conditions
provided herein.
   (C)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the user permit of users subject to such standards shall
be revised to require compliance with such standards, if they are more
restrictive that the local limits developed by the POTW within the time frame
prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application for a user
permit as required by this section, the user shall apply for a user permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. In addition, the use with an existing user permit shall
submit to the Manager within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
federal categorical pretreatment standard the information required by
subsections (A)(8) and (A)(9) above.
   (D)   User permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established
by the county.
      (1)   Permits must contain the following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (b)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (c)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see §
13-82);
         (d)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the county, and affording
access thereto; and
         (e)   Requirements for immediate notification of slug discharges.
      (2)   Permits may contain the following:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
         (b)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (c)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting schedule;
         (d)   Compliance schedules;
         (e)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the county to ensure
compliance with this chapter; and
         (f)   Statement of applicable remedies.
   (E)   User permits shall be issued for a specified time period not to exceed
two years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance
a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit.
The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the
county during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in this section are modified or other must cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (F)   User permits are issued to a specific user for a specific operation. A
user permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold by the user to a new
owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without the
approval of the county. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the
terms and conditions of the existing permit in the interim prior to the
issuance of the respective new permit.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-82 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the wastewater treatment facilities, any
user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Administrator a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements, and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user’s facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O & M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. In addition, the report shall contain the results of any sampling
and analysis of the discharge as specified in subsection (C) below. This
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user and
certified to by a qualified professional.
   (B)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of such pretreatment standard,
or, in the case of a new source, after commencement of the discharge into the
treatment works, shall submit to the Administrator during the months of June
and December, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or
by the Administrator, a report indicating the nature and concentration, of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In
addition, this report shall include a record of all daily flows which during
the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow reported. At the
discretion of the Administrator and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the Administrator
may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted.
   (C)   The Administrator may impose mass limitation on users which are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases,
the report required by subsection (B) above shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the Administrator, of pollutants contained therein
which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the permit. All analysis shall be performed
in accordance with procedures established by EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the
Act, being 33 U.S. § 1314(g) and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments
thereto or with any other test procedures approved by EPA. Sampling shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques approved by EPA. All samples
analyzed by this method should be reported.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-83 PROVISION FOR MONITORING.
   (A)   When required by the Administrator, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying Class II wastewater discharges shall provide
suitable access and such necessary meters and other devices in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastewater.
Such access shall be in a readily and safely accessible location and shall be
provided in accordance with plans approved by the Administrator. The access
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense so as to be safe and
accessible at reasonable times.
   (B)   The Administrator shall consider such factors as the volume and
strength of discharge, rate of discharge, quantities of toxic materials in the
discharge, treatment facility removal capabilities and cost effectiveness in
determining whether or not access and equipment for monitoring Class II
wastewater discharges shall be required.
   (C)   Where the Administrator determines access and equipment for monitoring
or measuring Class II wastewater discharges is not practicable, reliable or
cost effective, the Administrator may specify alternative methods of
determining the characteristics of the wastewaters discharge which will, in the
Administrator’s judgment, provide a reasonably reliable measurement of such
characteristics.
   (D)   Measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater
required by this chapter shall conform to 40 C.F.R. part 136 and be performed
by a qualified laboratory. When such analyses are required of a discharger, the
discharger may, in lieu of using the county’s laboratory, make arrangement with
any qualified laboratory, including that of the discharger, to perform such
analyses.
   (E)   Fees for any given measurement, test or analysis of wastewater
required by this chapter and performed by the county shall be the same for all
classes of dischargers, regardless of the quantity or quality of the discharger
and shall reflect only direct cost. Costs of analyses performed by an
independent laboratory at the option of discharger shall be borne directly by
the discharger.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-84 COSTS OF DAMAGE.
   If the drainage or discharge from any establishment causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any of the county treatment works or treatment
facility, the Administrator shall cause the deposit or obstruction to be
promptly removed or cause the damage to be promptly repaired. The cost of such
work, including materials, labor and supervision shall be borne by the person
causing such deposit, obstruction or damage.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-85—13-93 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. PRETREATMENT
§ 13-94 WASTEWATERS WITH SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   While the Administrator should initially rely upon the federal
categorical pretreatment standards to protect wastewater facilities or
receiving waters, if any wastewater which contains substances or possesses
characteristics shown to have deleterious effect upon the treatment works or
treatment facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters or constitutes a
public nuisance or hazard is discharged or is proposed for discharge to the
wastewater sewers, the Administrator may require any or all of the following:
      (1)   Pretreatment by the user or discharger to a condition acceptable
for discharge to the treatment works;
      (2)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (3)   The development of compliance schedules to meet any applicable
pretreatment requirements;
      (4)   The submission of reports necessary to assure compliance with
applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (5)   Carry out all inspection, surveillance and monitoring necessary to
determine compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Obtain remedies for non-compliance by an user. Such remedies may
include injunctive relief, the penalties specified in §§
13-120 through
13-126 or appropriate criminal penalties; or
      (7)   Reject the wastewater if evidence discloses that discharge will
create unreasonable hazards or have unreasonable deleterious effects on the
treatment works or treatment facilities.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Administrator shall
assure that conditions of the county’s permit are met. The Administrator shall
also take into consideration cost effectiveness, the economic impact of the
alternatives and the willful non-compliance of the discharger. If the
Administrator allows the pretreatment of equalization of wastewater flows, the
installation of the necessary facilities shall be subject to review. The
Administrator shall review and recommend any appropriate changes to the
program, within 50 days of submittal.
   (C)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-95 COMPLIANCE WITH PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons required to pretreat wastewater in accordance with §
13-94 shall provide a statement, reviewed by an authorized representative of
the user and certified by such representative indicating whether applicable
pretreatment requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
describe the additional operation and maintenance or additional pretreatment
required for the user to meet the pretreatment requirements. If additional
pretreatment or operation and maintenance will be required to meet the
pretreatment requirements, the user shall submit a plan (including schedules)
to the Administrator as described in §
13-81(B)(9). The plan (including schedules) shall be consistent with applicable
conditions of the county’s permit or other local, state or federal laws.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-96 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   Discharges of wastewater to the county treatment works from the facilities
of any user shall be monitored in accordance with the provisions of the user’s
permit.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-97 EFFECT OF FEDERAL LAW.
   In the event that the federal government promulgates a regulation for a
given new or existing user in a specific industrial subcategory that
establishes pretreatment standards or establishes that such user is exempt from
pretreatment standards, such federal regulations shall immediately supersede §
13-94(A) if they are more stringent.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-98 CERTIFICATION.
   All reports and permit applications must be signed by the industrial user’s
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not,
whether additional O & M and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-99—13-107 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES AND INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
§ 13-108 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   Charges and fees for the use of the public treatment works and treatment
facility shall be based upon the actual use of such system or contractual
obligations for a level of use in excess of current actual use. Property value
may be used to collect the amount due as permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-109 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   Users of the county’s treatment works and treatment facilities will also be
assessed industrial cost recovery charges as required by law.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-110 DETERMINATION OF SYSTEM USE.
   (A)   The use of the county’s treatment works and treatment facilities shall
be based upon actual measurement and analysis of each user’s wastewater
discharge, in accordance with provisions of § 13-83 to the extent such
measurement and analysis is considered by the Administrator to be feasible and
cost effective.
   (B)   Where measurement and analysis is considered not feasible,
determination of each user’s use of the treatment works and treatment
facilities shall be based upon the quantity of water used, whether purchased
from a public water utility or obtained from a private source, or an
alternative means as provided by subsection (C) below.
   (C)   The Administrator, when determining actual use of the county’s
treatment works and treatment facilities based on water use, shall consider
consumptive, evaporative or other use of water which results in a significant
difference between a discharger’s water use and wastewater discharge. Where
appropriate, such consumptive water use may be metered to aid in determining
actual use of the treatment works and treatment facilities. The meters used to
measure such water uses shall be of a type and installed in a manner approved
by the Administrator. (The actual average water use by each residential user
(Class I) during the three months of (January, February and March) shall be
used as the measure of each respective residential user’s actual use of the
sewer system throughout the year.)
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§§ 13-111—13-119 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. ENFORCEMENT
§ 13-120 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The county may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a user
permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the county, in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of a person,
to the environment, causes interference to the treatment facilities, or causes
the county to violate any condition of its VPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the county shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection and/or the
seeking of legal and equitable relief in the Circuit Court, to prevent or
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment facilities or endangerment to any
individuals. The county shall reinstate the user permit and/or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the county within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-121 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this article for:
   (A)   Failure of a user to tactually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations of
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-122 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the county finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, user permit or any prohibition, limitation of requirements
contained herein, the county may serve upon such person a written notice
stating the nature of the violation.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the county by the user.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-123 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   The county may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause why the proposed enforcement action should
not be taken. Such hearings shall be preceded by a notice being served on the
user specifying the time and place of the hearing, the reasons why the action
is to be taken, the proposed enforcement actions and directing the user to show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation.
   (B)   The Administrator may conduct the hearing and take the evidence or may
designate any of its member of any officer or employee of the County Public
Service Authority to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Administrator notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the
Administrator for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the transcript costs.
   (D)   After the Administrator has reviewed the evidence, he or she may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued, unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-124 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
county’s treatment works contrary to the provisions of the ordinance,
applicable federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
county, or if any industrial user refuses access to the Administrator or his or
her designee for purposes of inspection, the County Attorney may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-125 PENALTIES.
   The Administrator shall have the authority to assess on any user who is
found to have violated an order of the county or who failed to comply with a
provision of this chapter and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, a penalty of $1,000 per day per violation. Each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 13-126 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or user permit; or who
falsifies, any monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall
upon conviction, be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
CHAPTER 14: SOLID WASTE
Section
Article I. In General
   
14-1—14-10   Reserved
Article II. Waste Management Facilities
Division 1. Generally
   
14-11   Definitions
   
14-12   Purpose of article
   
14-13   Article does not affect zoning and subdivision ordinances,
comprehensive plan or other regulations
   
14-14   Violations of article
   
14-15   Responsibility of administrator to enforce article
   
14-16   Enforcement of article by suit for injunctive relief
   
14-17   Exemptions from article
   
14-18   Application of Divisions 2 and 3 of this article
   
14-19   Private facilities prohibited
   
14-20   Right to inspect and close facility
   
14-21   Transportation of solid waste
   
14-22—14-26   Reserved
Division 2. Siting Requirements
   
14-27   In areas of base floods
   
14-28   In geologically unstable areas
   
14-29   Location of disposal area with respect to flowing water, drinking water
sources, roads, residences, schools and the like
   
14-30   Separation of disposal area from maximum seasonal water table
   
14-31   Access from primary highway
   
14-32   Review by Planning Commission
   
14-33—14-37   Reserved
Division 3. Certificate
   
14-38   Required
   
14-39   Application generally
   
14-40   Plans, test samples and the like may be requested from applicant
   
14-41   Additional information to be furnished by applicant if facility is near
mining operation
   
14-42   Fee
   
14-43   Submission of application establishes no right
   
14-44   Return of application to applicant
   
14-45   Hearing on application; issuance or denial generally
   
14-46   Criteria for issuance
   
14-47   Contents
   
14-48   Not transferrable
   
14-49   Changes in site, operations and the like after issuance
   
14-50   Lapse
   
14-51   Revocation
   
14-52—14-56   Reserved
Article III. Litter Control and Waste Disposal
   
14-57   Article title
   
14-58   Definitions
   
14-59   Violations of article
   
14-60   Standards for litter receptacles and trash containers
   
14-61   Fee for use of county landfill
   
14-62   Commercial waste collectors
   
14-63   Littering generally
   
14-64   Indiscriminate dumping or discarding of litter and solid waste
   
14-65   Littering with handbills and other advertising material
   
14-66   Escape of vehicle loads
   
14-67   Areas surrounding commercial establishments and institutions to be
litter free
   
14-68   Exterior of residential property to be litter free
   
14-69   Litter at construction and demolition sites
   
14-70   Sweeping litter into street
   
14-71   Household solid waste containerization and removal
   
14-72   Commercial and institution solid waste containerization and removal
   
14-73   School solid waste containerization and removal
   
14-74   Improper disposal of bulk waste and brush
   
14-75   Disposal of waste by non-residents
   
14-76   Damaging or defacing receptacles or containers generally
   
14-77   Setting afire receptacle or container
   
14-78   Displacing receptacles or containers
   
14-79   Deposit of animal carcass in receptacle or container
   
14-80   Prohibited deposits in school container
   
14-81   Unauthorized use of receptacles or containers by business or
institution
   
14-82   Cardboard boxes to be flattened prior to placement in container
   
14-83   Scavenging from or impeding servicing of receptacles or containers
   
14-84   Deposit of dangerous material at waste collection or disposal locations
   
14-85   Open storage of inoperable vehicles or motor vehicle part
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to regulate siting of solid waste management facilities,
see VA Code Title 10.1, Chapter 14, Article 2
   Litter control and recycling, see VA Code §§ 10.1-1414 et seq.
   Solid waste management, see VA Code §§ 10.1-1408.1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 14-1—14-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 14-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the terms or words used herein shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in the Virginia Waste Management Act, VA Code §§
10.1-1400 through 10.1-1457.
(Prior Code, § 14-11) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, see §
1-2
§ 14-12 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   This article is established for the purpose of protecting, promoting and
preserving an environment that is conducive to public health and welfare,
preventing the creation of nuisances, and the depletion of natural resources
and to maintain such levels of air quality and water quality as will protect
human health, welfare and safety, and to the greatest degree practicable,
prevent injury to plant and animal life, and property and to nurture the
comfort of the people in their enjoyment of life and property, and to encourage
the social and economic development of the county and to facilitate the
enjoyment of its attractions.
(Prior Code, § 14-12) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-13 ARTICLE DOES NOT AFFECT ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES,
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This article shall not operate to alter, modify or rescind any
existing zoning or subdivision ordinances, or to affect the application and
enforceability of the county’s comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to exempt any person or
applicant from any other federal, state or local regulations pertaining to the
establishment, operation or maintenance of a solid waste management facility.
Other such regulations include, but shall not be limited to, the National
Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 2101 et seq., the Clean
Water Act, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, being 42 U.S.C. §§
4321 et seq., the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 742a et
seq., the Federal Power Act of 1920, being 16 U.S.C. Chapter 12, the Historic
Preservation Act of 1966, being U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq,, the Endangered
Species Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq., and the Virginia Waste Management
Act, being VA Code 10.1, Chapter 14, Articles 1 through 8.
(Prior Code, § 14-13) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-14 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, a violation of any provision of this
article shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14-14) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-15 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADMINISTRATOR TO ENFORCE ARTICLE.
   The County Administrator shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions
of this article.
(Prior Code, § 14-15) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-16 ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE BY SUIT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The provisions of this article may be enforced by a suit for injunctive
relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 14-16) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-17 EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE.
   Facilities for the disposal of solid waste from the extraction,
beneficiation and processing of oils and minerals, including coal, shall be
exempt from this article; provided such facilities are managed in accordance
with the requirements promulgated by the appropriate agencies of the
commonwealth. Such exemption shall not apply to facilities for the disposal of
by-products of coal combustion, such as fly ash and bottom ash.
(Prior Code, § 14-17) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-18 APPLICATION OF DIVISIONS 2 AND 3 OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   The provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of this article shall apply to
landfills operated by the county or by a regional waste or service authority in
which the county is a participating member. In addition, such provisions shall
apply to captive industrial landfills which accept waste only from a business
or industry located on the same site.
   (B)   The provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of this article shall not apply to
privately-owned or privately-operated solid waste management facilities, other
than captive industrial landfills; provided, however, that such provisions
shall apply to privately-owned or privately-operated solid waste management
facilities, in the event the prohibition provisions of §
14-19 are ruled invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 14-18) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-19 PRIVATE FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain or operate an
unregulated dumping place, an open dump, or a privately-owned or privately-
operated solid waste management facility within the territorial boundaries of
the county.
(Prior Code, § 14-19) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-20 RIGHT TO INSPECT AND CLOSE FACILITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to make such inspections
of the site of a solid waste management facility as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this article. The Board also reserves the right to suspend and
close a facility upon a finding by the Board of imminent dangers to the public
or to the environment.
   (B)   The Board shall provide a reason for such closing to the facility
manager and owner and a list of actions to be taken to correct the problems.
(Prior Code, § 14-20) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-21 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport for disposal into the
county any garbage, trash or refuse which has been compacted or baled in such a
manner that it cannot be readily examined and inspected by manual means by
county officials for the purpose of determining whether such garbage, trash or
refuse contains hazardous substances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, haul, transport or
convey garbage or trash for disposal within the county, except from one’s own
residence to an approved bulk container in the community or to a county-
approved solid waste management facility.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport refuse to points
through and outside the county, except for the transporting of refuse in
adequately covered trucks to points outside of the county.
(Prior Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§§ 14-22—14-26 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. SITING REQUIREMENTS
§ 14-27 IN AREAS OF BASE FLOODS.
   A solid waste management facility shall not be sited or constructed in areas
subject to base floods.
(Prior Code, § 14-27) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-28 IN GEOLOGICALLY UNSTABLE AREAS.
   No solid waste management facility shall be sited in geologically unstable
areas where adequate foundation support for the construction components for the
facility does not exist, giving due consideration to soil conditions,
geological and geomorphologic features, human-made features, caverns, tunnels,
mines and sinkholes.
(Prior Code, § 14-28) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-29 LOCATION OF DISPOSAL AREA WITH RESPECT TO FLOWING WATER, DRINKING WATER
SOURCES, ROADS, RESIDENCES, SCHOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No solid waste management facility disposal area shall be closer than
500 feet from any regular flowing surface body of water or 1,000 feet from any
well, spring or other groundwater source of drinking water.
   (B)   Any solid waste management facility disposal area shall also be a
minimum of 100 feet from any public road or right-of-way used by persons other
than the person operating the facility, and a minimum of 1,500 feet from any
residence, school, hospital, nursing home, church, recreational or park area,
or retail establishment.
(Prior Code, § 14-29) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-30 SEPARATION OF DISPOSAL AREA FROM MAXIMUM SEASONAL WATER TABLE.
   There shall be a minimum separation of ten feet between the deposit of solid
waste and the maximum seasonal water table or bedrock, unless equal isolation
or separation can be achieved and maintained by engineered construction and
operation methods to meet the standards of the State Department of Waste
Management.
(Prior Code, § 14-30) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-31 ACCESS FROM PRIMARY HIGHWAY.
   The access from a primary highway to a solid waste management facility site
shall be an all-weather paved road.
(Prior Code, § 14-31) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-32 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The siting of a solid waste management facility shall be subject to review
by the Planning Commission pursuant to VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 9, Article
II.
(Prior Code, § 14-32) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§§ 14-33—14-37 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. CERTIFICATE
§ 14-38 REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, operate or maintain a solid waste management
facility without a certificate from the Board of Supervisors.
(Prior Code, § 14-38) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Local certificate prerequisite to issuance of state permit, see VA Code §
10.1-1408.1
§ 14-39 APPLICATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   An application for a certificate required by this division shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The names, addresses, and work and home phone numbers of all
persons and entities owning an interest exceeding 5%, whether expressed or
silent, in the proposed solid waste management facility’s operating entity, in
the site or in the applicant;
      (3)   The legal description of the property on which the facility is
proposed to be located and a tax map reference;
      (4)   A copy of the lease or deed establishing the applicant’s right to
use the proposed site;
      (5)   A description of the current use of the proposed site;
      (6)   The present zoning district of the site;
      (7)   The proposed size and type of solid waste management facility;
      (8)   A preliminary site plan showing the boundary of the site, the
proposed disposal areas and other facilities and equipment to be located at the
site;
      (9)   A list of all property owners, both surface and mineral, and
mailing addresses, as shown on the county land books, who are contiguous,
adjacent or within one mile of the proposed site;
      (10)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of all residents and owners
living within a one-mile radius of the proposed solid waste management facility
site, and detailed information regarding the source of each listed resident’s
water supply and any surface and water damage reported to the applicant by the
resident due to past or present mining activities. The applicant shall take a
written statement from the resident and have the resident sign and verify that
the information contained therein is true and accurate, with a copy being given
to the resident. Should the resident refuse to cooperate with the applicant,
the applicant shall report that fact in the application;
      (11)   A description of the type of waste to be deposited in the proposed
solid waste management facility;
      (12)   A description of the anticipated rates or fees to be charged for
the disposal of solid waste, an estimate of the total volume of waste to be
disposed of each year and an estimate of the total annual revenues to be
generated by waste disposal activities at the proposed site;
      (13)   A complete description of the nature of any contracts and the
identity of parties to contracts for the acceptance of solid waste involving
the proposed site that have been agreed to at the time the application is
submitted or prior to the final action of the Board of Supervisors or its agent
on the application;
      (14)   A complete and thorough listing concerning the environmental
record of the entities who have been in contact or have contracted with the
applicant to utilize the solid waste management facility;
      (15)   A complete and thorough record of the compliance history of the
applicant concerning state and federal environmental laws;
      (16)   All information contained in subsections (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14)
and (A)(15) above shall be updated periodically by the applicant pending the
approval or disapproval of the application;
      (17)   A plan for land use of the site after the facility is closed;
      (18)   Complete information regarding violations of federal or state
environmental laws or regulations by any of the applicant’s owners, officers,
or any corporate entities in which the applicant owns or has owned an interest.
The environmental controls referred to herein include, but are not limited to,
any and all statutes and regulations enforced by the State Division of Mine,
Land and Reclamation, the State Division of Mines and Quarries, the State
Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy, the State Office of Surface Mining,
the State Air Pollution Control Board, the State Water Control Board, and the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers;
      (19)   Information regarding felony convictions of the applicant or any
of the applicant’s owners, officers or any corporate entities in which the
applicant, or any of its owners, owns or has owned an interest;
      (20)   A map showing the location of the facility, the roads and rights-
of-way giving access to the facility, and an approximate location of
residences, schools, hospitals, churches and retail establishments located
along any street or secondary road proposed to be used as an access road for
the facility;
      (21)   A site plan showing the entire acreage owned or controlled by the
applicant, the names of adjoining property owners, the location of any
adjoining property or other properties within 1,500 feet of the site, and the
location of any residence, school, hospital, church, recreational park or
retail establishment;
      (22)   The anticipated type, amount and source of financial protection to
be provided by the applicant to satisfy the financial assurance regulations of
State Department of Waste Management;
      (23)   The names, addresses and relevant experience of all key personnel
to be employed or retained by the applicant in connection with the operation of
the proposed solid waste management facility; and
      (24)   Complete information regarding violations of federal or state
environmental laws or regulations by any of the key personnel identified in
subsection (A)(23) above or in any application submitted to the State
Department of Waste Management.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to as being complete and accurate and
shall be signed by the president of the applicant’s corporation, if the
applicant is a corporation; by all of the partners if a partnership, both
general and silent partners; or the individual sole proprietor, if same
applies.
(Prior Code, § 14-39) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-40 PLANS, TEST SAMPLES AND THE LIKE MAY BE REQUESTED FROM APPLICANT.
   (A)   In addition to the information required by §
14-39, the applicant for a certificate may be requested to furnish engineering
and site plans to show:
      (1)   The slope and direction of rock strata and aquifers;
      (2)   The availability of cover material on the site or arrangements for
obtaining adequate cover material from a borrow site;
      (3)   The location of springs, seeps and other groundwater sources, and
other possible groundwater intrusion to the site;
      (4)   The location of any gas, water, sewage, electrical or other
transmission lines under, on or over the site;
      (5)   The prior existence of any such facilities on the site; and
      (6)   The location on the site of any prior open dump, landfill, lagoon,
surface or deep mine or similar facility.
   (B)   If requested, the applicant shall provide detailed core hole samples
from two locations within 50 horizontal feet of the opposite extremities of the
site of at least 300 feet deep (50 feet deep if near a utilized freshwater
aquifer). If requested, the applicant shall also provide certified test results
of the water quality of any freshwater aquifers beneath the proposed site to a
depth of 300 feet. The applicant may be asked to furnish a plan for
transporting waste through the county to the waste management facility site.
(Prior Code, § 14-40) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-41 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY APPLICANT IF FACILITY IS NEAR
MINING OPERATION.
   If the applicant’s proposed solid waste management facility is situated
within 3,000 feet of any abandoned, inactive or active coal mining operation,
the following information shall be supplied as part of the application prior to
consideration of the applicant’s request for siting approval:
   (A)   The names and addresses of the coal and mineral owners within a 3,000-
foot radius of the proposed solid waste management facility site, with
supporting documentation as available in the county land book records;
   (B)   A list, with certification from the Division of Mined Land Reclamation
of the State Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy, of all applications and
past and present permits for the surface mining or deep mining of coal within a
3,000-foot radius of the proposed solid waste management facility site;
   (C)   If the Division of Mined Land Reclamation finds that such permit
applications are pending or such mining is in progress or that abandoned coal
mines exist within the 3,000-foot radius area, the applicant shall provide
copies of the relevant mining permit applications, complete with maps of the
active, inactive, proposed or abandoned mining sites, with the boundary of the
proposed solid waste management facility site outlined in red and the
boundaries of the proposed, active, inactive or abandoned mining site outlined
in blue; and the applicant shall also supply copies of all relevant
hydrological formation and subsidence control plans contained within the mining
permit applications as set forth in the mining permit files; and
   (D)   If the landfill site is on limestone or similar soluble rock, it will
be required that the applicant document all caves, openings, sinkholes,
disappearing streams, known cave passages and any types of subterranean life
forms and their status on the federal and state endangered species list.
(Prior Code, § 14-41) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-42 FEE.
   The non-refundable fee to cover the costs of processing and reviewing an
application under this division, giving notice to affected property owners and
advertising a public hearing shall be a minimum of $5,000 or the actual cost of
processing and reviewing the application, whichever is greater, and shall
include the costs of legal and technical review. The minimum fee shall be
payable by the applicant at the time the application is submitted.
(Prior Code, § 14-42) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-43 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION ESTABLISHES NO RIGHT.
   The submission of an application pursuant to this division shall not result
in the establishment of any right to establish, operate or maintain a solid
waste management facility.
(Prior Code, § 14-43) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-44 RETURN OF APPLICATION TO APPLICANT.
   If the Board of Supervisors or its agent returns an application submitted
under this division to the applicant with instructions to provide additional
information, because of the applicant’s failure to obtain approval required by
any ordinance of the county or the Code of Virginia, or because of the
application of this article or any other ordinance prohibiting the
establishment, operation or maintenance of a privately-owned or privately-
operated solid waste management facility, the application shall be deemed
incomplete and no further action by the Board or its agent shall be required
until the reason for the return of the application has been corrected. Should
any application be so returned, the applicant shall have the right to resubmit
the application to be reviewed by the Board or its agent for completeness
without the deposit of any additional application fee.
(Prior Code, § 14-44) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-45 HEARING ON APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL GENERALLY.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the receipt of a complete application for a
certificate under this division, as determined by the Board of Supervisors or
its agent, the Board shall hold a public hearing on the proposed siting of the
solid waste management facility. The hearing shall be advertised as non-revenue
ordinances are advertised. The Board shall make a decision following the public
hearing no later than 120 days following the receipt of the complete
application. If the Board approves the siting location, it shall issue the
certificate. If the Board declines to issue the certificate, it shall advise
the applicant of the reasons for declining.
   (B)   In denying a certificate, the Board of Supervisors may state
conditions which, if complied with, would result in the issuance of a
certificate, and if the applicant agrees to comply with such conditions and
resubmits his or her application containing all such conditions, the Board may
grant a certificate upon further public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 14-45) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-46 CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   In making a decision as to whether the certificate shall be issued
under this division, the Board of Supervisors shall consider the potential
affect of the proposed solid waste management facility on the health, safety
and welfare of the county and its residents, and the criteria set forth in this
division. The Board, in determining whether to issue a certificate, may also
consider whether the proposed facility is compatible to existing land uses and
what visual barriers, such as tree buffers or berms, are to screen the site
from adjacent residences, schools, hospitals, churches, parks and recreation
areas, and retail establishments. The Board may consider litter on the access
road to the site, fugitive dust, noise, odor, hours of operation and artificial
lighting that may negatively affect adjacent uses of land.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall also consider the following siting
criteria in evaluating an application for a certificate under this division:
      (1)   Suitability of the proposed solid waste management facility site in
light of the surface and subsurface conditions (porous, fractured or subsided,
or is subjected to same from past, present or future mining, or as otherwise
affected by natural sink holes, fissures and cracks);
      (2)   Impact of the proposed solid waste management facility site on
groundwater and water used by surface owners and localities within the county;
      (3)   The fitness of the applicant, its owners and their companies, to
guard and to protect the safety and welfare of the public and of water and
other natural resources;
      (4)   The likelihood that a breach of the solid waste management facility
containment systems could occur, and if so, the impact such a breach would have
upon groundwater and surface water; and
      (5)   The impact of the solid waste management facility and its operation
upon surrounding property values.
   (C)   No certificate shall be issued under this division, if the Board of
Supervisors determines that the applicant lacks sufficient financial resources
to safely and adequately establish, operate, maintain and close the proposed
facility.
   (D)   No certificate shall be issued under this division, if the Board of
Supervisors determines that the applicant, its owners, officers, any corporate
entities in which the applicant owns or has owned an interest, or any key
personnel identified in the application or any application submitted to the
Virginia Department of Waste Management have been found to have violated any
federal or state environmental laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-46) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-47 CONTENTS.
   (A)   If a certificate is granted under this division, the certificate shall
name the applicant, its address, describe in detail the location of the site,
and list the types of solid waste which may be disposed of on the site. The
certificate shall specifically refer to the date of the application and
specifically list the date of any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The certificate shall state that the location and operation of the
facility are consistent with all applicable ordinances of the county. A copy of
the application and all amendments thereto shall be attached to the copy of the
certificate which is to be filed by the applicant with the Virginia Department
of Waste Management.
(Prior Code, § 14-47) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-48 NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No certificate issued pursuant to this division shall be transferrable or
assignable. A material change in the corporate ownership of any corporation
that has been issued a certificate shall be considered a prohibited transfer.
(Prior Code, § 14-48) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-49 CHANGES IN SITE, OPERATIONS AND THE LIKE AFTER ISSUANCE.
   Once a certificate has been issued pursuant to this division, the size of
the site shall not be enlarged, nor the type of waste accepted changed, without
reapplication and a new public hearing. A site may be decreased in size or the
types of waste or volume disposed of may be reduced without amendment of a
certificate or the submission of new application; provided, that in the event
of a reduction in the size of the site or reduction in types of waste to be
handled at any time after the issuance of the certificate, the applicant shall,
within 30 days thereof, file with the Board of Supervisors a new plat of the
site and a new description of the types of waste which will be disposed of at
the site. A new certificate shall be required pursuant to this division for the
establishment of a new facility, the expansion of any existing facility or any
material change in design or process at an existing facility.
(Prior Code, § 14-49) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-50 LAPSE.
   A certificate issued pursuant to this division shall lapse 12 months after
the final action of the Board of Supervisors on the application, unless the
holder of the certificate has begun the actual construction of the proposed
facility. A certificate granted pursuant to this division shall lapse if, at
any time, the holder of the certificate ceases operation of the facility for a
period of 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 14-50) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§ 14-51 REVOCATION.
   A certificate granted pursuant to this division may be revoked by the Board
of Supervisors, if the Board determines that the facility is being operated or
maintained in a manner that poses a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health or the environment. A certificate may also be revoked by the
Board, if the Board determines that the grant of the certificate was based on
an application containing material misrepresentations or omissions.
(Prior Code, § 14-51) (Ord. passed 11-9-1990)
§§ 14-52—14-56 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. LITTER CONTROL AND WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 14-57 ARTICLE TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Litter Control and
Solid Waste Disposal Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 14-57) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-58 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle which was actually manufactured, or
designated by the manufacturer as a model manufactured in a calendar year not
less than 25 years prior to January 1 of each calendar year and is owned solely
as a collector’s item, and is used for participation in club activities,
exhibits, tours, parades and similar uses, but in no event used for
transportation.
   BRUSH. Bushes, branches, briars, leaves and similar material.
   BULK WASTE. All waste materials, including, but not limited to, junked
furniture and large appliances, stoves, fence wire, scrap metal, transmissions,
rear ends and other items which are of a nature which would tend to impede the
collection process or damage collection or compaction equipment.
   BULK WASTE CONTAINER. Any container or area designated for the deposit of
bulky items only, including, but not limited to, junked furniture and
appliances, stoves, fence wire and scrap metal, and other bulky waste.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from the normal
operations of commercial establishments.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle which is not less than two cubic yards in capacity
and is constructed of such quality as to maintain the original shape when
placed at an outdoor location and is reasonably resistant to rust and
corrosion.
   COUNTY CONTAINER. A container placed and maintained by the county or its
agents for use by individuals.
   COUNTY GOVERNMENTAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from
the normal activities of the county government, excluding solid waste resulting
from the activities of the school system.
   GARBAGE. Animal, vegetable or mineral matter derived from the preparation or
packaging of foodstuffs.
   HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from the normal
day-to-day activities of households.
   INSTITUTION. Any public or private establishment which educates, instructs,
treats for health purposes, or otherwise performs a service or need for the
community, region, state or nation, excluding the county school system.
   INSTITUTION SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from the
operations of institutions.
   LITTER. All waste materials including, but not limited to, bottles, glass,
crockery, cans, scrap metal, paper, plastic, rubber, garbage, offal, waste or
scrap building materials, tires, brush, junked furniture and appliances,
carcasses, disposable packages, or containers, which are thrown or disposed of
as prohibited herein, but not including the properly disposed of waste of the
primary processes of mining, logging, saw-milling, farming or manufacturing.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. A container with a capacity of not less than ten gallons,
constructed of such quality as to maintain the original shape when placed at an
outdoor location, reasonably resistant to rust and corrosion, and placed for
use as a depository for litter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled or designed for self-
propulsion. A structure designed, used or maintained primarily to be loaded on
or affixed to a MOTOR VEHICLE to provide a mobile dwelling, sleeping place,
office or commercial space shall be considered a part of a MOTOR VEHICLE.
   PERMITTED DISPOSAL SITE. A location approved by the proper agencies of the
state and the county for the disposal of waste.
   PRIVATE CONTAINER. A container placed and maintained for use by a commercial
business or institution or its agents.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property owned by any person, including, but not limited
to, yards, grounds, driveways, entranceways, passageways, parking areas,
storage areas; any stream, creek, river or body of water; or vacant land and
recreation facilities.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public,
whether owned or operated by public or private interests, including, but not
limited to, highways, streets, alleys, parks, recreation areas, sidewalks,
medians, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds and other bodies of water.
   RUBBISH and TRASH. Waste material not to include food wastes.
   SCHOOL CONTAINER. A container placed and maintained by a school or its
agents for use by the school system.
   SCHOOL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from the normal
operation of the school system.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its own load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying property
or passengers wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device capable or being moved upon a public highway or public
waterway, and in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a public highway or waterway, and shall also include any watercraft,
boat, ship, vessel, barge or other floating craft, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails.
(Prior Code, § 14-58) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-59 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, a violation of any provision
of this article shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Enforcement officers of the County Sheriff’s Department, the State
Division of Game and Inland Fisheries, and all other police agencies with the
power to arrest are hereby empowered to issue citations to or arrest persons
violating any provision of this article, and may serve and execute all warrants
and other process issued in enforcing the provisions of this article.
   (C)   The Building Official, animal warden and Litter Control Coordinator
may issue citations for violations of this article.
   (D)   Prosecution for a violation of any provision of this article may be
initiated by any law enforcement officer who witnesses such offense or who
discovers an article of litter bearing a person’s name or address, liberally
distributed on the property of another, on any public highway, street or road,
upon a public park or recreation area, or upon any other public property,
except property that is designated as a permitted disposal site. Such
prosecution may be initiated by the Litter Coordinator or any private citizen
who witnesses an offense or discovers evidence.
   (E)   In a prosecution for a violation of this article, articles of litter
bearing a person’s name or address, found liberally distributed on the private
property of another, or on any public property as in subsection (D) above,
shall be presumed to be the property of such person whose name or address
appears thereon, and it shall be presumed that such person placed such article
of litter. Such presumption shall be rebuttable by competent evidence.
   (F)   When an authorized person issues a notice for a violation of this
article, he or she shall serve the offending person by:
      (1)   Delivering a copy of the notice to whom it is directed in person;
      (2)   If the party cannot be found, by delivering a copy and giving
information of its contents and meaning to any member of the family or employee
found at the offending person’s regular place of abode or usual place of
business; or
      (3)   By mailing, by certified mail, a copy of the notice to the last
known address of the person.
   (G)   For violations of this article, the county may take clean-up,
corrective, repair or replacement measures, and the expense thereof shall be an
obligation of the violator and shall be a lien on his or her property, subject
to collection as taxes and levies are collected or by any other appropriate
means.
   (H)   (1)   The governing body of the county shall, through its Litter
Control Officer and County Attorney, be authorized in accordance with VA Code
§§ 15.2-901 and 10.1-1418.1, and any other applicable statutes and ordinances,
including claims for court costs and attorney’s fees.
      (2)   Should any part or provision of this article be found to be invalid
due to conflict with federal or state law or regulations, or found to be
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall
in no way affect any other provision of this article and the invalid portion of
such ordinance shall be deemed to be deleted herefrom without affecting any
other provision of this article.
(Prior Code, § 14-59) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984; Ord. passed 8-25-1989; Ord. 216-
10, passed 2-16-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for class 3 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§ 14-60 STANDARDS FOR LITTER RECEPTACLES AND TRASH CONTAINERS.
   Standards for the construction, placement, use, service and maintenance of
litter receptacles and trash containers shall be as prescribed by the Board of
Supervisors. Any receptacle or container which does not conform to such
standards shall be replaced by the owner or user of the receptacle or container
upon written notice from the county. Failure to do so within 90 days shall
constitute a violation of this section and each day thereafter shall constitute
a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 14-60) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-61 FEE FOR USE OF COUNTY LANDFILL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of trash or garbage on any
county landfill or waste transfer station before paying the fees established
from time to time by the Board of Supervisors. A schedule of such fees shall be
maintained in the office of the County Administrator and shall be open to
inspection during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 14-61) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984; Ord. passed 7-18-2000)
§ 14-62 COMMERCIAL WASTE COLLECTORS.
   All persons engaged in the operation of a waste collection service in the
county for a profit shall use vehicles which are constructed or covered in such
a manner as to prevent the distribution of waste. Such persons shall dispose of
waste only on a permitted disposal site.
(Prior Code, § 14-62) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-63 LITTERING GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, deposit, discard or
otherwise dispose of litter in or upon any public or private property within
the county including, but not restricted to, any street, sidewalk, park,
stream, river, vacant or occupied lot, except in containers, bulk waste
containers or receptacles, or in an area designated by the state or county as a
permitted disposal site.
   (B)   When a violation of the provisions of this section has been observed
by any person, and the matter dumped or disposed of has been ejected from a
motor vehicle, the owner or operator of such motor vehicle shall be presumed to
be the person ejecting such matter. Such presumption shall be rebuttable by
competent evidence.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14-63) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 1 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions and authority of county to adopt above section, see VA
Code Title 33.2, Chapter 8
§ 14-64 INDISCRIMINATE DUMPING OR DISCARDING OF LITTER AND SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discard or dump any item or
combination of items of any type of waste defined in §
14-58, with a singular or combined volume of 12 cubic inches or more, or any
animal carcass, along any street or road, on or off the right-of-way, or on any
public or private property, stream, river or body of water, except in an area
designated for such use by the county or the state.
(Prior Code, § 14-64) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-65 LITTERING WITH HANDBILLS AND OTHER ADVERTISING MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person distributing commercial handbills,
leaflets, flyers or any other advertising and information material to
distribute material in such a manner that it litters either public or private
property through the action or reasonably foreseeable action of wind or
animals.
(Prior Code, § 14-65) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-66 ESCAPE OF VEHICLE LOADS.
   (A)   No vehicle used to transport litter or other items likely to fall or
be blown from such vehicle shall be driven or moved, stopped, or parked on any
highway, unless such vehicle is covered to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; provided, however,
that sand or any substance to increase traction, or water or other substance,
may be applied on a roadway in the cleaning or maintaining of such roadway by
the state or local government agency having such responsibilities.
   (B)   Any person operating a vehicle from which any glass or objects have
fallen, escaped or been ejected which would cause an obstruction or damage a
vehicle, or otherwise endanger travelers or animals on public property, shall
immediately cause the public property to be cleaned of all glass or objects and
shall pay any costs therefor.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14-66) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 1 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 10.1-1424
§ 14-67 AREAS SURROUNDING COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS AND INSTITUTIONS TO BE
LITTER FREE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each proprietor, owner and operator of any
business, industry or institution to keep the adjacent and surrounding area
clean and free of litter.
   (B)   These areas include, but are not limited to, public and private
sidewalks; roads and alleys; grounds; parking lots; loading and unloading
areas; and all vacant lots which are owned or leased by such establishment or
institution.
(Prior Code, § 14-67) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-68 EXTERIOR OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TO BE LITTER FREE.
   It shall be the duty of each residential property owner and tenant to keep
all exterior private property free of litter. These areas shall include, but
not be restricted to, sidewalks, alleys and driveways; yards and grounds;
fences, walls and property lines; drainages; and vacant lots in residential
area.
(Prior Code, § 14-68) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-69 LITTER AT CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or contractor to permit the
accumulation of litter at the site of any construction or demolition project.
It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor in charge to collect and
contain all litter on a regular basis. All litter shall be removed from such
site as necessary to prevent health and safety hazards.
(Prior Code, § 14-69) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-70 SWEEPING LITTER INTO STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep or push litter from sidewalks
into streets. Such litter shall be deposited in a proper receptacle or
container.
(Prior Code, § 14-70) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-71 HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All household solid waste shall be containerized in such a manner as
to prevent or preclude distribution by wind or by animal.
   (B)   Such waste shall be placed for collection into a county collection
container (dumpster), taken directly to a permitted disposal site during
working hours, placed for collection by a commercial waste hauler or otherwise
legally disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 14-71) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-72 COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTION SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION AND REMOVAL.
   All commercial and institution solid waste shall be containerized in such a
manner to prevent or preclude distribution by wind or animal. Such waste shall
be placed for collection into a private collection container (dumpster), taken
directly to a permitted disposal site during working hours, placed for
collection by a commercial waste hauler or otherwise legally disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 14-72) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-73 SCHOOL SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION AND REMOVAL.
   All school solid waste shall be containerized in such a manner as to prevent
or preclude distribution by wind or animal. Such waste shall be placed for
collection into a school collection container (dumpster), taken directly to a
permitted disposal site during working hours, placed for collection by a
commercial waste hauler or otherwise legally disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 14-73) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-74 IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF BULK WASTE AND BRUSH.
   (A)   Bulk waste shall not be deposited into any container or receptacle, or
indiscriminately dumped.
   (B)   Brush shall not be deposited into any container, bulk waste container
or receptacle, or indiscriminately dumped.
(Prior Code, § 14-74) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-75 DISPOSAL OF WASTE BY NON-RESIDENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person residing outside the county to dispose
of any bulk waste or household, commercial, institution or county governmental
solid waste, either properly or improperly, within the county, without the
express consent of the Board of Supervisors or the County Administrator;
provided, however, that tourists, visitors and other transients may dispose of
household waste if done in accordance with this article.
(Prior Code, § 14-75) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-76 DAMAGING OR DEFACING RECEPTACLES OR CONTAINERS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface, or cause the same
to be done to, any receptacle, container or bulk waste container.
(Prior Code, § 14-76)
§ 14-77 SETTING AFIRE RECEPTACLE OR CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set afire or cause to be set afire
any container, bulk waste container or receptacle. A violation of this section
shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14-77) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 1 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§ 14-78 DISPLACING RECEPTACLES OR CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized to do so, to displace or
cause to be displaced any receptacle, container or bulk waste container.
(Prior Code, § 14-78) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-79 DEPOSIT OF ANIMAL CARCASS IN RECEPTACLE OR CONTAINER.
   No person shall deposit any animal carcass in a receptacle, container or
bulk waste container.
(Prior Code, § 14-79) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-80 PROHIBITED DEPOSITS IN SCHOOL CONTAINER.
   No person shall dispose of any type of waste into a school container, except
that which is generated by the school system.
(Prior Code, § 14-80) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-81 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF RECEPTACLES OR CONTAINERS BY BUSINESS OR
INSTITUTION.
   No business or institution shall use any county container, bulk waste
container or receptacle; provided for use by the public for the deposit of any
type of waste generated by the business or institution.
(Prior Code, § 14-81) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-82 CARDBOARD BOXES TO BE FLATTENED PRIOR TO PLACEMENT IN CONTAINER.
   Large cardboard boxes, large quantities of small cardboard boxes and similar
items requiring large volumes of space for disposal shall not be deposited in
any container without first being flattened.
(Prior Code, § 14-82) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-83 SCAVENGING FROM OR IMPEDING SERVICING OF RECEPTACLES OR CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to go through the contents or
remove any item from a container, bulk waste container or receptacle, unless
authorized to do so.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to impede or cause to be impeded
the servicing of any container, bulk waste container or receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 14-83) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
§ 14-84 DEPOSIT OF DANGEROUS MATERIAL AT WASTE COLLECTION OR DISPOSAL
LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or dump any explosive, gasoline,
gasoline derivative, or other inflammable or noxious, poisonous, burning or
other dangerous material in or at county solid waste collection or disposal
locations.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14-84) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 1 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§ 14-85 OPEN STORAGE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES OR MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, except within a fully
enclosed building or structure, or otherwise shielded or screened from view, on
any public or private property, any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer
which is inoperative. As used in this section, an INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE is
any motor vehicle which is not in operating condition or which, for a period of
60 days or longer, has been partially or totally disassembled by the removal of
tires and wheels, the engine or other essential parts required for operation of
the vehicle, or on which there are displayed neither valid license plates nor a
valid inspection decal. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
licensed business, which on September 7, 1984, was regularly engaged in
business as an automobile dealer, salvage dealer or scrap processor.
   (B)   The accumulation and storage of parts of motor vehicles on private or
public property or rights-of-way shall be unlawful, except within a fully
enclosed building or structure, or unless such parts are otherwise shielded or
screened from view.
   (C)   If any person empowered to issue citations under this article finds
any violation of this section, such person shall make diligent search and
inquiry to determine the record owner of the land upon which the vehicle or
parts are located or the owner of the vehicle or parts, and shall notify the
owner as directed by §
14-59 that such violation has been found and the nature thereof. The notice
shall demand and it shall be the duty of the record owner of the land or
vehicle or parts to cause such vehicle or parts to be removed from the property
forthwith and taken to an authorized place of storage or disposal. Such removal
shall be accomplished within 30 days of the date of mailing or service of the
notice.
   (D)   If the mailing address of the owner of the land and the owner of the
vehicle or parts found in violation of this section is not known and diligent
search has been made to determine same and the land is unoccupied and the owner
has no agent in the county, provided for in this section, shall be posted upon
such land as notice to the owner thereof.
   (E)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within
30 days after the mailing, serving or posting thereof, the owner of the land on
which the vehicle or parts are located or the owner of the vehicle or parts, or
both of them, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for maintaining a public
nuisance. In addition, the county shall have an injunctive action for any
continuing or anticipated violation of this section. Each day that the
offending vehicle or parts are allowed to remain on the property in violation
of this section after the passage of 30 days shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to an antique motor
vehicle that is capable of being repaired or restored, and the parts necessary
for such repairing or restoration; provided:
      (1)   A bona fide effort is being made to repair or restore such vehicle;
and
      (2)   Such vehicle and parts are covered so as to shield them from public
view, protect them from the weather and make them unsuitable as a hiding place
for snakes, rats or vermin. Such shield shall be constructed of wood, metal,
masonry or vegetative material of such density as to screen the vehicle and
parts from public view, and shall be constructed and thereafter maintained in
such a manner as not to create or perpetuate neighborhood blight.
(Prior Code, § 14-85) (Ord. passed 9-7-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 11
CHAPTER 15: TAXATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
15-1   Due date for returns on tangible personal property
   
15-2   Due date for taxes on real estate and tangible personal property
   
15-3   Interest and penalty on delinquent real estate and tangible personal
property taxes
   
15-4   Certain personal property exempt from taxation
   
15-5   Purpose; definitions; relation to other ordinances
   
15-5.1   Method of computing and reflecting tax relief
   
15-5.2   Allocation of relief among taxpayers
   
15-5.3   Transitional provisions
   
15-6   Definitions
   
15-7   Exemption
   
15-8   Procedure
   
15-9   Appeals
   
15-10   Special provisions for certain equipment and enabling software used in
a data center
   
15-11   Refund of excess proceeds from sale of real property for delinquent
taxes
   
15-12   Payment of administrative costs by delinquent taxpayers
   
15-13— 5-14   Reserved
Article II. Real Estate Tax Exemption for Elderly and Disabled Persons
   
15-15   Definitions
   
15-16   Exemption authorized
   
15-17   Administration of exemption
   
15-18   Qualifications for exemption
   
15-19   Claimant’s affidavit and certification of disability
   
15-20   Certification to county treasurer; deduction from tax liability
   
15-21   Amount of exemption
   
15-22   When exemption effective; reduction applies only if taxes paid when due
   
15-23   Effect of changes in status
   
15-24   False claims
   
15-25—15-34   Reserved
Article III. Building Contractors License Tax
   
15-35   Contractor defined
   
15-36   Rate
   
15-37   Incorporation by reference
   
15-38   Penalties
   
15-39—15-48   Reserved
Article IV.  Retail Sales Tax
   
15-49   Levied; to be added to rate of state sales tax and the like
   
15-50   Price brackets; no discount
   
15-51   Administration and collection
   
15-52   Exemptions
   
15-53—15-62   Reserved
Article V. Tax on Purchasers of Utility Services
   
15-63   Definitions
   
15-64   Imposed; exceptions generally
   
15-65   Application to telephone service
   
15-66   Exemptions
   
15-67   Computation when seller collects charges in stated periods
   
15-68   Duty of purchaser to pay
   
15-69   Duty of seller to collect, report and remit
   
15-70   Seller’s records
   
15-71   Duty of treasurer to collect from seller
   
15-72   Failure of purchaser to pay; violation of article by seller
   
15-73—15-82   Reserved
Article VI. Bank Franchise Tax
   
15-83   Definitions
   
15-84   Imposed
   
15-85   Filing of returns, schedules and the like; payment of tax
   
15-86   Penalty for failure to comply with article
   
15-87—15-96   Reserved
Article VII. Transient Occupancy Tax
   
15-97   Definitions
   
15-98   Imposed; exemptions
   
15-99   Collection
   
15-100   Report and remittance
   
15-101   Collector’s records
   
15-102   Collector’s Commission
   
15-103   Duties of Treasurer
   
15-104   Occupant’s failure to pay tax; violations of article by unit providers
   
15-105—15-114   Reserved
Article VIII. Tax on Probate of Will or Grant of Administration
   
15-115   Imposed
   
15-116   Collection
   
15-117—15-126   Reserved
Article IX. Recordation Tax
   
15-127   Imposed
   
15-128   Computation when property located only partially in county
   
15-129   Collection
   
15-130—15-138   Reserved
Article X. Mineral Severance License Tax
Division 1. Coal Severance License Tax
   
15-139   Statutory authority
   
15-140   Effective date of amendments
   
15-141   Definitions
   
15-142   Tax levied
   15-143—15-151   Reserved
Division 2. Gas and Oil Severance License Taxes
   
15-152   Statutory authority
   
15-153   Effective date of amendments
   
15-154   Definitions
   
15-155   Tax levied
   
15-156—15-164   Reserved
Division 3. General Provisions Applicable to Coal, Gas and Oil Severance
License Taxes
   
15-165   Definitions
   
15-166   License generally
   
15-167   Returns
   
15-168   Payment of tax; penalty and interest on delinquencies
   
15-169   Procedure when coal producer or person engaged in the business of
severing oil or gas from the earth fails to make return or makes incorrect or
false return
   
15-170   Procedure when person engaged in the business of severing coal, oil or
gas from the earth ceases operations
   
15-171   Maintenance of records
   
15-172   Distribution of taxes collected
   
15-173   Coal and Gas Road Improvement Advisory Committee generally
   
15-174   Coal and gas road improvement plans
   
15-175   Use of county funds for coal and gas road improvements in towns or
city
   
15-176   Violations and penalties
   
15-177   Limitations and extensions of assessments and collections of tax
   
15-178   Administrative appeals to the Commissioner of Revenue
   
15-179   Administrative appeal to the Tax Commissioner
   
15-180   Judicial review of determination of the Tax Commissioner
   
15-181   Rulings
   
15-182   Audits
   
15-183   Severability
   
15-184   Uniform provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3703.1
   
15-185   Agreements with taxpayers
   
15-186—15-194   Reserved
Article XI. Electric Consumer Tax
   
15-195   Definitions
   
15-196   Electric utility consumer tax
   
15-197   Penalties
   
15-198—15-206   Reserved
Article XII. Electric Consumption Tax
   
15-207   Generally
   
15-208—15-216   Reserved
Article XIII. Enhanced 911 Service Tax
   
15-217   Definitions
   
15-218   Establishment of E-911 system; use of tax revenues
   
15-219   Effective date; imposition of tax; establishment of rate
   
15-220   Exclusions and exemptions
   
15-221   Collection and payment of tax
   
15-222   Accounting for tax receipts and E-911 expenditures
   
15-223   Violations and penalties
   
15-224—15-232   Reserved
Article XIV. Miscellaneous Taxes
   
15-233   Food and beverage tax
   
15-234—15-242   Reserved
Article XV. Utility Receipts Tax
   
15-243   Tax imposed
   
15-244   Administration and collection
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to grant exemption provided for Article II, see VA Code
§ 58.1-3210
   General authority of Board of Supervisors as to levies, see VA Code Title
15.2, Subtitle II
   Local taxes, see VA Code §§ 58.1-3000 et seq.
   Taxation, see VA Code §§ 58.1-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 15-1 DUE DATE FOR RETURNS ON TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Tangible personal property returns shall be due on May 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 15-1) (Ord. passed 10-8-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3916
§ 15-2 DUE DATE FOR TAXES ON REAL ESTATE AND TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Taxes or levies on real estate and tangible personal property shall be due
and payable on October 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) (Ord. passed 10-8-1980; Ord. passed 12-17-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3916
§ 15-3 INTEREST AND PENALTY ON DELINQUENT REAL ESTATE AND TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   Interest, calculated at the rate of 10% per annum, shall be charged on
delinquent payments of real estate and tangible personal property taxes. Such
interest shall commence on November 1, the first day of the month next
following the month in which such taxes are due.
   (B)   The penalty for failure to pay a tangible personal property or real
estate tax when due shall be 10% of the amount past due or the sum of $2,
whichever is greater. Such penalty shall be assessed on November 1, the first
day of the month next following the month in which such taxes are due.
(Prior Code, § 15-3) (Ord. passed 10-8-1980; Ord. passed 1-10-1986; Ord. passed
12-17-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3916
§ 15-4 CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3505, the following classes of personal property
shall be exempt from taxation by the county: horses, mules and other kindred
animals; cattle; sheep and goats; hogs; poultry; and farm machinery and farm
implements of every kind and description.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) (Ord. passed 8-3-1983)
§ 15-5 PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS; RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The purpose of §§
15-5 through
15-5.3 is to provide for the implementation of the changes to the Personal
Property Tax Relief Act, being VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 35.1.
   (B)   Terms used in §§
15-5 through
15-5.3 that have defined meanings set forth in Personal Property Tax Relief Act
shall have the same meanings as set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3523, as amended.
   (C)   To the extent that the provisions of §§
15-5 through
15-5.3 conflict with any prior ordinance or provision of the county, §§
15-5 through
15-5.3 shall control.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2005)
§ 15-5.1 METHOD OF COMPUTING AND REFLECTING TAX RELIEF.
   (A)   For tax years commencing in 2006, the county adopts the provisions of
Item 503.E of the 2005 Appropriations Act; providing for the computation of tax
relief as a specific dollar amount to be off-set against the total taxes that
would otherwise be due, but for personal property tax relief and the reporting
of such specific dollar relief on the tax bill.
   (B)   The Board shall, by resolution, set the percentage of tax relief at
such a level that it is anticipated fully to exhaust Personal Property Tax
Relief Act, being VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 35.1, relief funds provided to
the county by the commonwealth.
   (C)   Personal property tax bills shall set forth on their face the specific
dollar amount of relief credited with respect to each qualifying vehicle,
together with an explanation of the general manner in which relief is
allocated.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2005)
§ 15-5.2 ALLOCATION OF RELIEF AMONG TAXPAYERS.
   (A)   Allocation of personal property tax relief shall be provided in
accordance with the general provisions of this section, as implemented by the
specific provisions of the county annual budget relating to Personal Property
Tax Relief Act relief.
   (B)   Relief with respect to qualifying vehicles with assessed values of
more than $100 shall be provided at a percentage, annually fixed and applied to
the first $20,000 in value of each such qualifying vehicle that is estimated
fully to use all available state personal property tax relief funding. The
percentage shall be established annually.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2005)
§ 15-5.3 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority conferred in Item 503.D of the 2005
Appropriations Act, unless the assessment is determined to be of no fault of
the taxpayer, the County Treasurer is authorized to issue a supplemental
personal property tax bill, in the amount of 100% of tax due without regard to
any former entitlement to state personal property tax relief, plus applicable
penalties and interest, to any taxpayer whose taxes with respect to a
qualifying vehicle for tax year 2005 or any prior tax year remain unpaid on
September 1, 2006, or such date as state funds for reimbursement of the state
share of such bill have become unavailable, whichever earlier occurs.
   (B)   Penalty and interest with respect to bills issued pursuant to
subsection (A) above shall be computed on the entire amount of tax owed.
Interest shall be computed at the rate provided in §
15-3 from the original due date of the tax.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2005)
§ 15-6 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
15-6 through
15-9, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELIGIBLE VEHICLE. Titled in the qualified taxpayer’s name, either jointly or
solely, and proof of such ownership and a copy of current registration must be
provided to the Commissioner along with application for exemption; it must be
for personal use only, located, taxed and tagged in the county. Commercial
vehicles are not eligible for any exemption under §§
15-6 through
15-9 .
   QUALIFIED TAXPAYER. A taxpayer who:
      (1)   Is an active member of a volunteer fire department or a volunteer
rescue squad located in and operating in the county, as verified by the
department chief or squad captain, and has been active for a minimum of two
years prior to application, without receiving any compensation for such
volunteer duties;
      (2)   Is not delinquent on any real or personal property taxes previously
assessed by the county;
      (3)   Is included on his or her department’s roster, in the case of a
firefighter, which is filed with the County Circuit Court Clerk’s office;
      (4)   Is certified as qualified by the County Emergency Management
Coordinator;
      (5)   The chief of each volunteer fire department shall on or before
January 15 of each year submit to the Emergency Management Coordinator a
certification form, which contains information to verify eligibility of the
department’s members, together with a copy of the roster certification stamped
filed with the County Circuit Court Clerk. The certification form shall be as
attached hereto;
      (6)   Is a resident of the county and lists the county as their domicile;
and
      (7)   Accumulates a total of 30 points annually, on a calendar year
basis, with points earned as follows:
 
Classes and/or course trainings
   4 hours or less           1 point each
   Over 4 hours              2 points each
Department or squad meeting     1 point each (max of 12)
attendance
Response calls                  2 points each
Training sessions               1 point each
*   Records subject to audit by the Commissioner of the Revenue to verify
the minimum point threshold is met
 
(Ord. passed 3-19-2019)
§ 15-7 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   All or a portion of the value of a single automobile owned or leased
by a qualified taxpayer, which is subject to local taxation pursuant to VA Code
§§ 58.1-3500 et seq., shall be exempted from personal property taxation as
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The aggregate amount of exemptible value pursuant to §§
15-6 through
15-9 shall be determined annually by the Board of Supervisors in their annual
budget on or before June 30 each year. No exemption shall exceed $200 per
qualified taxpayer on their personal property obligation, in any given year.
Upon approval of Board’s annual budget on or before June 30 each year, the
County Administrator or its designee shall advise the Commissioner in writing
of the amount budgeted by the Board for the purposes of §§
15-6 through
15-9. The exemptible value per qualified taxpayer, who applies for and is
granted the exemption, shall be the aggregate amount of exemptible value set by
the Board of Supervisors divided by the total number of qualified taxpayers who
apply for and are granted the exemption.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2019)
§ 15-8 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each year on or before March 31, the Emergency Management Coordinator
shall submit to the Commissioner of the Revenue a list of eligible qualified
taxpayers.
   (B)   Any qualified taxpayer may submit to the Commissioner of the Revenue
an application, in a form approved by the Commissioner, on or before March 31
of each year to receive the exemption. However, the Commissioner of the Revenue
shall be authorized, in his or her discretion, and for good cause shown and
without fault on the part of the qualified taxpayer, to accept a certification
after the March 31 deadline.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall, using the list submitted by the Emergency
Management Coordinator, determine which applicants are eligible for the
exemption.
   (D)   The Commissioner then shall exempt a portion of the value each
eligible applicant’s eligible vehicle, according to the formula herein set
forth, from taxation for that tax year. Should the exemptible value available
for any qualified taxpayer exceed the value of such taxpayer’s eligible
vehicle, the entire value of such vehicle shall be exempted; no remaining
exemptible value shall be allocated to the taxpayer.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2019)
§ 15-9 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any applicant who believes he or she was eligible for the exemption
but was not listed by the Emergency Management Coordinator as qualified, may
appeal to the Board of Supervisors by giving written notice to the County
Administrator within 30 days of receiving his or her tax assessment.
   (B)   Any applicant who was designated by the Emergency Management
Coordinator as eligible for the exemption but was not granted the exemption by
the Commissioner, may be appeal said decision as provided in the Code of
Virginia for assessments generally.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2019)
§ 15-10 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EQUIPMENT AND ENABLING SOFTWARE USED IN
A DATA CENTER.
   (A)   There is hereby levied a tax of $0.24 on each $100 of assessed value
of computer equipment or enabling software used in a data center meeting the
requirements of VA Code § 58.1-609.3(18). This levy shall be in lieu of any
other personal property tax on such property.
   (B)   All other assessments, taxes and fees imposed by the county shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 21-00, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 15-11 REFUND OF EXCESS PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF REAL PROPERTY FOR DELINQUENT
TAXES.
   There is authorized the refund of excess proceeds from the sale of real
property for delinquent taxes, under the condition stated previously, is hereby
approved and shall be effective on a case by case basis by the adoption of a
resolution stating the amount of relief to be granted in the form of a refund
to said former owner, heir, or assign, or unknown beneficiary.
(Ord. passed 2-18-2020)
§ 15-12 PAYMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS BY DELINQUENT TAXPAYERS.
   (A)   Delinquent taxpayers shall pay a fee to cover the administrative costs
and reasonable attorney’s or collection agency’s fees actually contracted for,
not to exceed 20% of the taxes or other charges so collected. Such
administrative costs shall be in addition to all penalties and interest, and
shall not exceed $20 for taxes collected subsequent to the filing of a warrant
or other appropriate legal document but prior to judgment, and $25 for taxes
collected subsequent to judgment.
   (B)   No tax assessment or tax bill shall be deemed delinquent and subject
to collection procedures prescribed herein during the pendency of any
administrative appeal under VA Code § 58.1-3980, 1950, as amended, so long as
the appeal is filed within 90 days of appeal; provided that nothing in this
subsection (B) shall be construed to preclude the assessment or refund,
following the final determination of such appeal, of such interest as otherwise
may be provided by general law as to the portion of a tax bill which has
remained unpaid or was overpaid during the pendency of such appeal and is
determined in such appeal to be properly due and owing.
(Ord. passed 4-30-1998)
§§ 15-13—5-14 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. REAL ESTATE TAX EXEMPTION FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED PERSONS
§ 15-15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. The real estate tax exemption affidavit (a sworn statement in
writing).
   DWELLING. The full-time residence of the person claiming an exemption.
   EXEMPTION. Exemption from the county real estate tax according to the
provisions of this article.
   PERMANENTLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED. A person that is unable to engage in any
substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical
or mental impairment or deformity which can be expected to result in death or
can be expected to last for the duration of such person’s life.
   PROPERTY. Real property.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year, from January 1 until December 31, for which
an exemption is claimed.
(Prior Code, § 15-15) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, see §
1-2
Statutory reference:
   Similar definition of permanently and totally disabled, see VA Code § 58.1-
3217
§ 15-16 EXEMPTION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Real estate tax exemption is provided for qualified property owners
who are 65 years of age or older or permanently and totally disabled, and who
are eligible according to the terms of this article.
   (B)   Persons qualifying for exemption are deemed to be bearing an
extraordinary real estate tax burden in relation to their income and financial
worth.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
§ 15-17 ADMINISTRATION OF EXEMPTION.
   The exemption shall be administered by the Commissioner of the Revenue
according to the provisions of this article. The Commissioner is hereby
authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations in conformance with the provisions of this article, including the
requirement of answers under oath, as may be reasonably necessary to determine
qualifications for exemption as specified by this article. The Commissioner may
require the production of certified tax returns and appraisal reports to
establish income or financial worth.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to make inquiries and require answers under oath and production of
tax returns, see VA Code § 58.1-3213(F)
§ 15-18 QUALIFICATIONS FOR EXEMPTION.
   Exemption shall be granted to persons subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   The title of the property for which exemption is claimed is held, or
partially held, on January 1 of the taxable year, by the person claiming
exemption;
   (B)   The head of the household occupying the dwelling and owning title, or
partial title, thereto is determined to be 65 years old or older or permanently
and totally disabled on December 31 of the year immediately preceding the
taxable year;
   (C)   The gross combined income of the owner during the year immediately
preceding the taxable year shall not exceed $25,000. Gross combined income
shall include income from all sources of the owner and of the owner’s relatives
living in the dwelling for which exemption is claimed, excluding the first
$2,000 of the relative’s income. Any form of public welfare assistance (other
than medical care for the medically indigent) must be listed as income; and
   (D)   The total combined financial worth of the owner, as of December 31 of
the year immediately preceding the taxable year, shall not exceed $85,000.
Total financial worth shall include the value of all assets, including
equitable interests, of the owner and the owner’s relatives living in the
dwelling for which exemption is claimed, and shall exclude the fair market
value of the dwelling and the land upon which it is situated, not exceeding one
acre, for which exemption is claimed.
(Prior Code, § 15-18) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county as to income and financial worth requirements, see VA
Code § 58.1-3212
§ 15-19 CLAIMANT’S AFFIDAVIT AND CERTIFICATION OF DISABILITY.
   (A)   Annually, and not later than May 1 of the taxable year, the person
claiming an exemption must file a real estate tax exemption affidavit with the
Commissioner of the Revenue. The affidavit shall set forth, in a manner
prescribed by the Commissioner of the Revenue, the names of all persons
occupying the dwelling for which exemption is claimed, their gross combined
income and their total combined net worth.
   (B)   If the person claiming exemption is under 65 years of age, the
affidavit shall have attached thereto a certification by the Social Security
Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Railroad Retirement
Board, or if such person is not eligible for certification by any of these
agencies, a sworn affidavit by two medical doctors who are either licensed to
practice medicine in the commonwealth or are military officers on active duty
who practice medicine with the United States Armed Forces, to the effect that
such person is permanently and totally disabled, as defined in §
15-15 and in VA Code § 58.1-3217; however, a certification pursuant to 42
U.S.C. § 423(d) by the Social Security Administration, so long as the person
remains eligible for such social security benefits shall be deemed to satisfy
such definition. The affidavit of at least one of the doctors shall be based
upon a physical examination of the person by such doctor. The affidavit of one
of the doctors may be based upon medical information contained in the records
of the Civil Service Commission which is relevant to the standards for
determining permanent and total disability.
(Prior Code, § 15-19) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of county to fix date for filing affidavit, see VA Code § 58.1-
3213(E)
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3213(A), (D)
§ 15-20 CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY TREASURER; DEDUCTION FROM TAX LIABILITY.
   If, after audit and investigation, the Commissioner of the Revenue
determines that the claimant is qualified for exemption, the Commissioner shall
so certify to the County Treasurer who shall deduct the amount of the exemption
from the claimant’s real estate tax liability.
(Prior Code, § 15-20) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
§ 15-21 AMOUNT OF EXEMPTION.
   (A)   For qualified persons, the amount of exemption of the real estate tax
shall be determined by the following table:
 
Annual Income     Percent of Tax to be Exempted
$0 - $17,000      100
$17,001 - $19,500 75
$19,501 - $22,000 50
$22,001 - $25,000 25
 
   (B)   After determining which income range the person’s annual income falls
in, the amount of tax exemption will be computed by multiplying the existing
tax bill times the percentage opposite the appropriate income figure, the
result of which will be the amount of tax to be excused. The difference between
the original tax and the figure arrived at will be due the county as the
assessed property tax for that year. In no case will the tax excused exceed
$200.
(Prior Code, § 15-21) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Amount of exemption to be as prescribed by ordinance, see VA Code § 58.1-
3210
§ 15-22 WHEN EXEMPTION EFFECTIVE; REDUCTION APPLIES ONLY IF TAXES PAID WHEN
DUE.
   (A)   The exemption shall be effective only in the current tax year and
shall be applied to reduce taxes, if the taxes due and owing are paid on or
before the due date set by law for payment without penalty. In the event the
taxpayer qualified for exemption owes delinquent real property taxes, the
exemption will be allowed for the current tax year only and all payments
received by the current tax year due date may be credited first to the current
year tax amount.
   (B)   Any payment in excess of the current year amount, less any allowed
exemption, will be applied to the most delinquent tax due, less any accrued
penalty and interest.
(Prior Code, § 15-22) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
§ 15-23 EFFECT OF CHANGES IN STATUS.
   Changes in respect to income, financial worth, ownership of property or
other factors occurring during the tax year for which the affidavit is filed
and having the effect of exceeding or violating the limitations and conditions;
provided in this article shall nullify any relief of real estate tax liability
for the then current taxable year and the taxable year immediately following.
(Prior Code, § 15-23) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3215
§ 15-24 FALSE CLAIMS.
   Any person falsely claiming an exemption shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-24) (Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 3 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§§ 15-25—15-34 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. BUILDING CONTRACTORS LICENSE TAX
§ 15-35 CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   CONTRACTOR includes individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations and combinations of individuals of whatever form or character,
carrying on or continuing a business, profession, trade or occupation incident
to construction of any improvement or structure requiring a building permit by
the county.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1996)
§ 15-36 RATE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied, assessed or imposed a local contractor’s
license tax on a per project basis upon contractors engaged in construction
projects exceeding $100,000 within the county, but outside the boundary of any
town having a similar license tax, which tax shall be in the amount of $30 or
$0.16 per $100 of gross receipts of the contractor as derived from such
construction project performed in the county, whichever amount is greater.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected at such time as the contractor applies for
and receives the building permit through the County Building Inspector’s
office.
   (C)   In the event such building permit is acquired in the name of the
property owner rather than the contractor, the tax shall nonetheless be due and
owing by the property owner at the same rate as if assessed to the contractor.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued by the county for construction of
any structure or improvement until such time as the contractor’s tax as herein
imposed has been fully paid.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1996)
§ 15-37 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3703, as amended, are hereby incorporated
by express reference to be considered a part of this article.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1996)
§ 15-38 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who engages in the contracting business within the county
without first having obtained a license, building permit and having paid the
tax herein imposed, shall pay a penalty of 5% of any amount due hereunder, in
addition to the regular amount, and shall pay interest at the rate of 8% per
annum on any unpaid amount.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this article by providing
false information as to gross receipts shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. Each day of a violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1996)
§§ 15-39—15-48 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. RETAIL SALES TAX
§ 15-49 LEVIED; TO BE ADDED TO RATE OF STATE SALES TAX AND THE LIKE.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-605, a local general retail sales tax, at the
rate of 1%, to provide revenue for the general fund of the county, is hereby
levied. Such tax shall be added to the rate of the state sales tax imposed by
VA Code §§ 58.1-603 and 58.1-604 and shall be subject to all provisions of VA
Code Title 58.1, Chapter 6 (§§ 58.1-600 et seq.), all the amendments thereto
and the rules and regulations published with respect thereto.
(Prior Code, § 15-49) (Ord. passed 5-4-1966)
§ 15-50 PRICE BRACKETS; NO DISCOUNT.
   For the sales tax levied by this article, the applicable brackets of prices
shall be as prescribed in VA Code § 58.1-628 for the combined state and local
tax. No discount under VA Code § 58.1-622 shall be allowed on the tax levied by
this article.
(Prior Code, § 15-50)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-605
§ 15-51 ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-605, the local general retail sales tax levied
pursuant to this article shall be administered and collected by the State Tax
Commissioner in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as provided
for the state sales tax, with the adjustments required by VA Code § 58.1-628.
(Prior Code, § 15-51) (Ord. passed 5-4-1966)
§ 15-52 EXEMPTIONS.
   All fuels for domestic consumption shall be exempt from the sales tax levied
by this article.
(Prior Code, § 15-52) (Ord. passed 11-15-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for exemption, see VA Code § 58.1-609
§§ 15-53—15-62 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. TAX ON PURCHASERS OF UTILITY SERVICES
§ 15-63 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PURCHASER. Any person who purchases a utility service.
   SELLER. Any person, organization, firm, corporation, cooperative, sanitary
district, municipality or any other entity who or which sells or provides a
utility service.
   UTILITY SERVICE. Local exchange telephone service and electric service
furnished within the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-63) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, see §
1-2
§ 15-64 IMPOSED; EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed and levied by the county upon each and every
purchaser of a utility service a tax for general purposes in the amount of 15%
of the charge, exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon, made by the
seller against the purchaser with respect to such service; provided, however,
that in case a monthly bill submitted by the seller for the service exceeds
$15, there shall be no tax computed on so much of such bill as exceeds $15.
There shall be no tax computed on bills submitted for electric service for
water heating where a separate meter is used solely for water heating service
or on bills submitted for unmetered electric service.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, bills shall be considered monthly
bills if submitted 12 times annually for a period of approximately one month or
portion thereof. In case bills are submitted by any seller for two month’s
service, there shall be no tax computed on so much of such bill as exceeds $30.
In the event bills are rendered for utility services stated on a basis other
than one month or two months, the tax imposed by this section shall be computed
pro rata as if such bill was rendered on a monthly basis with the rates and the
maximums set out in this section applied.
(Prior Code, § 15-64) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Ord. passed 6-29-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for above tax, see VA Code§ 58.1-3814
§ 15-65 APPLICATION TO TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   The tax imposed and levied by this article on purchasers with respect to
telephone service shall apply to all charges made for local exchange service
except as follows.
   (A)   The total amount of the guaranteed charge on each bill rendered for
semi-public coin box telephone service shall be included in the basis for the
tax with respect to the purchaser of such service, but no other tax shall be
imposed on telephone service paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated
telephones.
   (B)   With respect to flat rate and flat message rate service, the tax shall
apply to only the amount payable for local area service and shall not apply to
any specific charge for calls to points outside the county or to any general
charge or rate differential payable for the privilege of calling points outside
the county.
   (C)   Where purchasers of telephone service are charged on a message rate
basis, the tax shall apply only to the basic charge for such service and shall
not apply to any charge for additional message units.
(Prior Code, § 15-65) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-66 EXEMPTIONS.
   The United States of America, diplomatic personnel exempted by the laws of
the United States, the state and the political subdivisions, boards,
commissions, authorities and agencies thereof, churches, and residences of
ministers of churches owned by a religious body are exempt from the payment of
the tax imposed and levied by this article, with respect to the purchase of
utility services used by such entities.
(Prior Code, § 15-66) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-67 COMPUTATION WHEN SELLER COLLECTS CHARGES IN STATED PERIODS.
   In all cases where the seller collects the charge for a utility service in
stated periods, the tax imposed and levied by this article shall be computed on
the amount of purchases during the month or period according to each bill
rendered; provided that the amount of tax to be collected shall be the nearest
whole cent to the amount computed.
(Prior Code, § 15-67) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-68 DUTY OF PURCHASER TO PAY.
   Each purchaser of a utility service shall pay the tax imposed and levied by
this article at the time the purchase price is paid to the seller of the
utility service. In the event a purchaser makes a partial payment, the tax must
be paid at the time the final portion of the purchase price is paid.
(Prior Code, § 15-68) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-69 DUTY OF SELLER TO COLLECT, REPORT AND REMIT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller, in acting as the tax collection
medium or agency for the county, to collect from the purchaser, for use of the
county, the tax imposed and levied by this article at the time of collecting
the purchase price charged for the utility service. Taxes so collected during
each calendar month or billing period shall be reported and paid by the seller
to the County Treasurer by the last day of the second calendar month
thereafter, together with the name and address of any purchaser who has paid
his or her total purchase price but has failed to pay the tax imposed by this
article.
   (B)   The County Treasurer may prescribe forms for the filing of any report
or the payment of any funds under this section.
   (C)   The County Treasurer may extend, for good cause shown, the time of
filing the report and payment of the tax by the seller, as required by this
section; provided, however, that no such extension shall exceed a period of 90
days.
(Prior Code, § 15-69) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-70 SELLER’S RECORDS.
   Each seller shall keep complete records showing all purchasers of utility
services in the county, which records shall show the price charged against each
purchaser with respect to each purchase, the date thereof and the date of
payment thereof, and the amount of tax imposed under this article. Such records
shall be kept open for inspection by the duly authorized agents of the county,
who shall have the right, power and authority to make such transcripts thereof
during such times as they may desire.
(Prior Code, § 15-70) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-71 DUTY OF TREASURER TO COLLECT FROM SELLER.
   The County Treasurer is charged with the duty of collecting the taxes
imposed and levied under this article from the seller of the utility service.
(Prior Code, § 15-71) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
§ 15-72 FAILURE OF PURCHASER TO PAY; VIOLATION OF ARTICLE BY SELLER.
   (A)   Any purchaser who fails to pay the tax imposed or levied by this
article and any seller violating the provisions of this article, and any
officer, agent or employee of any seller violating the provisions of this
article shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon failing to pay the tax imposed by this article when the total
purchase price is paid, or when the final portion of a purchase price paid in
partial payments is paid, each day’s continuance of failing to pay shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   A conviction for a violation of this article shall not relieve any
person from the payment, collection and remittance of the tax as provided in
this article.
(Prior Code, § 15-72) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 3 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§§ 15-73—15-82 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. BANK FRANCHISE TAX
§ 15-83 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. As defined in VA Code § 58.1-1201.
   NET CAPITAL. A bank’s new capital computed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-1205.
(Prior Code, § 15-83) (Ord. passed 6-4-1980)
§ 15-84 IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed upon each bank located outside any incorporated
town, but otherwise within the boundaries of this county, a tax on net capital
equalling 80% of the state rate of franchise tax set forth in VA Code § 58.1-
1204. If such bank also has offices that are located outside the county or
within the corporate limits of a town in the county, the tax shall be
apportioned as provided in VA Code § 58.1-1211.
(Prior Code, § 15-84) (Ord. passed 6-4-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for above tax, see VA Code § 58.1-210
§ 15-85 FILING OF RETURNS, SCHEDULES AND THE LIKE; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or after January 1 of each year, but not later than March 1 of any
such year, all banks whose principal offices are located within the county, but
outside any incorporated town in the county, shall prepare and file with the
Commissioner of the Revenue a return as provided by VA Code § 58.1-1207, in
duplicate, which shall set forth the tax on net capital computed pursuant to VA
Code §§ 58.1-1200 through 58.1-1217. The Commissioner of the Revenue shall
certify a copy for such filing of the bank’s return and schedule and shall
forthwith transmit such certified copy to the State Department of Taxation.
   (B)   In the event that the principal office of a bank is located outside
the boundaries of this county or within any town located herein, and such bank
has branch offices located within this county, in addition to the filing
requirements set forth in subsection (A) above, any bank conducting such branch
business shall file with the Commissioner of the Revenue a copy of the real
estate deduction schedule, apportionment and other items which are required by
VA Code §§ 58.1-1207 and 58.1-1211. Each bank, on or before June 1 of each
year, shall pay into the County Treasurer’s office all taxes imposed pursuant
to this article.
(Prior Code, § 15-85) (Ord. passed 6-4-1980)
§ 15-86 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ARTICLE.
   Any bank which fails to file a return or pay the tax required by this
article or fails to comply with any other provision of this article shall be,
subject to a penalty of 5% of the tax due. If the Commissioner of the Revenue
is satisfied that such failure is due to providential or other good cause, such
return and payment shall be accepted exclusive of such penalty, but with
interest determined in accordance with VA Code § 58.1-15.
(Prior Code, § 15-86) (Ord. passed 6-4-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions applicable to state bank franchise tax, see VA Code §
58.1-1216
§§ 15-87—15-96 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 15-97 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A lodginghouse at which meals are provided.
   HOTEL. An establishment that provides lodging and usually meals.
   MOTEL. An establishment which provides lodging and parking and in which the
rooms are usually accessible from an outdoor parking area.
   OCCUPANT. Any person occupying any unit.
   TRAVEL CAMPGROUND. An establishment which provides lots or spaces for the
purpose of overnight placement of travel trailers and recreational vehicles.
   UNIT. Any room or space in a hotel, motel, boardinghouse or travel
campground which is meant to be occupied by any person or vehicle for a fee.
(Prior Code, § 15-97) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, see §
1-2
§ 15-98 IMPOSED; EXEMPTIONS.
   Pursuant to authority contained in VA Code § 58.1-3819, a transient
occupancy tax is hereby imposed and levied by the county upon each and every
hotel, motel, boardinghouse and travel campground, in the amount of 2% of the
amount of the charge for the occupancy for any unit occupied. Such tax shall
not apply to units rented, for continuous occupancy by the same individual or
group for 30 or more days.
(Prior Code, § 15-98) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
§ 15-99 COLLECTION.
   It shall be the duty of every person who provides units, in acting as the
tax collecting medium or agency for the county, to collect from the occupant,
for the use of the county, the tax imposed and levied by this article at the
time of collecting the charge for a unit.
(Prior Code, § 15-99) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
§ 15-100 REPORT AND REMITTANCE.
   (A)   Taxes collected pursuant to §
15-99 during each calendar month shall be reported by the person providing the
units to the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Such person shall remit the amount of tax shown by such report on or
before the last day of the calendar month next following the month so reported.
The required report shall be in the form prescribed by the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 15-100) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
§ 15-101 COLLECTOR’S RECORDS.
   Each person collecting taxes pursuant to §
15-99 shall keep complete records showing all charges imposed for units, the
daily charge made for each unit occupied, the date for which the charge is
made, the date of payment thereof and the amount of tax imposed under this
article. Such records shall be kept open for inspection by the duly authorized
agents of the county during regular business hours, and the duly authorized
agents shall have the right, power and authority to make transcripts thereof
during such time.
(Prior Code, § 15-101) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
§ 15-102 COLLECTOR’S COMMISSION.
   There is hereby allowed a commission, in the form of a deduction from the
taxes remitted pursuant to this article of 3% of the taxes due under this
article to the county, for the services provided the county in collecting and
administering the tax. In no event shall this commission be allowed if the
taxes due under this article are delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 15-102) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 58.1-3819
§ 15-103 DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The County Treasurer shall collect the taxes imposed and levied by this
article and pay such taxes into the general fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
§ 15-104 OCCUPANT’S FAILURE TO PAY TAX; VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE BY UNIT
PROVIDERS.
   Any occupant of any unit failing, refusing or neglecting to pay the tax
imposed and levied by this article, and any person providing a unit who
violates the provisions of this article, and any officer, agent or employee of
any person providing such units who violates the provisions of this article,
shall be guilty of a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) (Ord. passed 7-12-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for Class 4 misdemeanor, see §
1-10
§§ 15-105—15-114 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. TAX ON PROBATE OF WILL OR GRANT OF ADMINISTRATION
§ 15-115 IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a tax on the probate of every will or grant of
administration in the county, which tax shall be equal to one-third of the
state tax on such probate or grant of administration.
(Prior Code, § 15-115) (Res. passed 8-1-1960)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for above tax, see VA Code §§ 58.1-1718 and 58.1-3805
§ 15-116 COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county, who shall pay the same into the treasury of the
county. The Clerk shall be compensated for such service in the amount of 5% of
the amount collected and remitted. The Clerk shall, at the first regular
meeting of the Board of Supervisors in January of each year, present a bill for
his or her compensation under this section for the previous year. Such
compensation shall be paid to the Clerk from the general fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-116) (Res. passed 1-4-1961)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3806
§§ 15-117—15-126 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. RECORDATION TAX
§ 15-127 IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a recordation tax, in an amount equal to one-third
of the amount of the state recordation tax, upon the first recordation of each
taxable instrument in the county. No tax shall be imposed under this section
when the state recordation tax is $0.50.
(Prior Code, § 15-127) (Ord. passed 3-4-1959)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code §§ 58.1-814 and 58.1-3800
§ 15-128 COMPUTATION WHEN PROPERTY LOCATED ONLY PARTIALLY IN COUNTY.
   The tax imposed by this article upon a deed or other instrument which
conveys, covers or relates to property located only partially within the county
shall be computed and collected only with respect to that portion of the
property located in the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-128)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see VA Code § 58.1-3801
§ 15-129 COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county, who shall pay the same into the treasury of the
county. The Clerk shall be compensated for such service in the amount of 5% of
the amount collected and remitted. The Clerk shall at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Supervisors in January of each year present a bill for his or
her compensation, under this section, for the previous year. Such compensation
shall be paid to the Clerk from the general fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 15-129) (Ord. passed 3-4-1959; Res. passed 1-4-1961)
§§ 15-130—15-138 RESERVED.
ARTICLE X. MINERAL SEVERANCE LICENSE TAX
DIVISION 1. COAL SEVERANCE LICENSE TAX
§ 15-139 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The coal severance license tax portions of this division are adopted
pursuant to VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 37.1 (§§ 58.1-3740 et seq.) and all
other applicable sections of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapters 37 and 39, as
amended, whether or not the specific section is cited herein. Such adoption is
by reference and is inclusive, including all tax collection and lien
enforcement provisions provided by state law. Any and all additional and
applicable sections of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapters 37, 37.1 and 39, as
amended, including, but not limited to, VA Code § 58.1-3703.1, are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. Any amendments to any applicable
sections of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapters 37, 37.1 and 39, as amended, shall be
deemed to be incorporated into this division when they become effective as if
they were separately adopted.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-140 EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   As it applies to coal severance license taxes of this division,
including the general provisions in subsection (C) below, revises and replaces
previous ordinances enacted under authority of VA Code §§ 58.1-3712 and 58.1-
3713, as applied to persons engaged in the business of severing coal from the
earth (Prior Coal Severance License Tax Statutes). These amendments are
intended to reflect changes in the law set forth in VA Code §§ 58.1-3740 et
seq. and associated statutory provisions enacted by the Virginia General
Assembly in 2013. This Division 1 shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. This
Division 1 is intended to be applied in accordance with the terms herein. Past
administrative practices in applying prior ordinances enacted pursuant to VA
Code §§ 58.1-3712, 58.1-3713, 58.1-3713.3 and 58.1-3713.4 shall not apply in
interpreting such provisions of this article.
   (B)   All unpaid taxes authorized by the Prior Coal Severance License Tax
Statutes shall remain due and payable.
   (C)   All persons having a valid mineral severance license granted pursuant
to the county’s previously enacted ordinances under the Prior Coal Severance
License Tax Statutes shall be deemed to have a license pursuant to this article
until such time as such licenses must be renewed as provided herein.
   (D)   The penalties for violations of the county’s previously enacted
ordinances under the Prior Coal Severance License Tax Statutes prior to the
effective date shall remain applicable and in full force and effect.
   (E)   All assessments and collections previously made pursuant to the Prior
Coal Severance License Tax Statutes prior to the effective date shall remain
applicable, and are hereby affirmed and ratified pursuant to appropriate
statutory authority.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-141 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, unless
otherwise defined by state law.
   COAL. Any mineral deposit composed predominantly of hydrocarbons in a solid
state.
   COAL PRODUCER. The meaning set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3740.
   ECONOMIC INTEREST. The meaning set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3740.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The meaning set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3740.
   NON-LOCAL COAL TRANSPORTATION AND PROCESSING COSTS. The meaning set forth in
VA Code § 58.1-3740.
   SEVERING, SEVERANCE AND SEVERED WITH REGARD TO COAL. The taking of any coal
from any land, soil, slag piles or any other source situated in the county in
any manner whatsoever.
   SMALL MINE. The meaning set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3740.
   UTILIZED or UTILIZE. To put to beneficial use for such purposes as making
coke, facility heating, power generation, machinery operation, equipment
operation and similar uses.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-142 TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied and imposed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-
3741(A) on every coal producer that sells or utilizes coal severed from the
earth within the county. The rate of tax for the sale or utilization of coal
from small mines shall be three-fourths of 1% of the gross receipts from the
sale or utilization of such coal by the coal producer. The rate of tax for all
other coal shall be 1% of the gross receipts from the sale or utilization of
such coal by the coal producer.
   (B)   In addition to the tax imposed in subsection (A) above, a license tax
is hereby levied and imposed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3741(B) on every coal
producer that sells or utilizes coal severed from the earth within the county.
The rate of tax for the sale or utilization of coal from small mines shall be
three-fourths of 1% of the gross receipts from the sale or utilization of such
coal by the coal producer. The rate of tax for all other coal shall be 1% of
the gross receipts from the sale or utilization of such coal by the coal
producer.
   (C)   The foregoing taxes are hereby levied and imposed in addition to all
other taxes and fees of every kind now imposed by law upon every coal producer.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
DIVISION 2. GAS AND OIL SEVERANCE LICENSE TAXES
§ 15-152 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The gas and oil severance license tax portions of this division are adopted
pursuant to VA Code §§ 58.1-3712, 58.1-3713, 58.1-3713.3 and 58.1-3713.4 (the
Gas Severance License Tax Statutes) and all other applicable sections of VA
Code Title 58.1, Chapters 37 and 39, as amended, whether or not the specific
section is cited herein. Such adoption is by reference and is inclusive,
including all tax collection and lien enforcement provisions provided by state
law. Any and all additional and applicable sections of VA Code Title 58.1,
Chapters 37 and 39, as amended, including, but not limited to, VA Code § 58.1-
3703.1, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. Any amendments
to any applicable sections of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 37 and Chapter 39, as
amended, shall be deemed to be incorporated into this division when they become
effective as if they were separately adopted.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-153 EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   As it applies to gas and oil severance license taxes, this division,
including the general provisions in subsection (C) below, amends the county
coal, gas and oil severance license tax ordinance adopted on June 19, 2012,
which was enacted under authority of the Gas Severance License Tax Statutes,
being VA Code § 58.1-3713, and effective as of January 1, 2008. These
amendments shall not alter that prior effective date. This division is intended
to be applied in accordance with the terms stated herein. Past administrative
practices in applying prior ordinances enacted pursuant to the Gas Severance
License Tax Statutes shall not apply in interpreting this division.
   (B)   All unpaid taxes authorized by the Gas Severance License Tax Statutes
shall remain due and payable.
   (C)   All persons having a valid mineral severance license granted pursuant
to the county’s previously enacted ordinances under the Gas Severance License
Tax Statutes shall be deemed to have a license pursuant to this division until
such time as such licenses must be renewed as provided herein.
   (D)   The penalties for violations of the county’s previously enacted
ordinances under the Gas Severance License Tax Statutes prior to the effective
date shall remain applicable and in full force and effect.
   (E)   All assessments and collections previously made pursuant to the Gas
Severance License Tax Statutes prior to the effective date shall remain
applicable and are hereby affirmed and ratified pursuant to appropriate
statutory authority.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-154 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, unless
otherwise defined by state law.
   COALBED METHANE GAS. Occluded natural gas produced from coalbeds and rock
strata associated therewith.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE.
      (1)   In circumstances where the gas or oil is sold by arms-length
transaction between unrelated persons, the sale price of the gas or oil; and
      (2)   In circumstances in which the gas or oil is utilized or sold in a
related party transaction or under other circumstances that indicate that the
sale is not an arms-length transaction, the average sale price received by the
person engaged in the business of severing oil or gas from the earth in arms-
length transactions for the sale of other minerals of comparable quality
produced from a comparable area during the same time frame or, if none, the
sale price for other such minerals of comparable quality as indicated by either
appropriate regional indices or sales by other persons engaged in the severance
of similar minerals within the county or neighboring counties.
   GAS. All natural gas, including, but not limited to, coalbed methane gas,
whether hydrocarbon or non-hydrocarbon or any combination or mixture thereof,
including hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide, helium, carbon dioxide, nitrogen,
hydrogen, casing head gas and all other fluids not defined as oil herein.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Except in the case of persons engaging in the production and
operation of severing gases from the earth in connection with coal mining, the
fair market value of the severed oil or gas measured at the time the oil or gas
is utilized or sold for utilization in the county or at the time the oil or gas
is placed in transit for shipment from the county. When such minerals are
placed in transit for shipment from the county, fair market value may be
reduced by deducting reasonable costs actually incurred by the person engaged
in the business of severing oil or gas from the earth in processing or
transporting the mineral after it is placed in transit for shipment from the
county prior to sale of the mineral. For persons engaging in the production and
operation of severing gases from the earth in connection with coal mining,
GROSS RECEIPTS means the fair market value of the gas measured at the time it
is utilized or sold for utilization in the county or at the time it is placed
in transit for shipment from the county, with no deduction or allowance for
costs. In all circumstances, gross receipts includes the royalty share of the
mineral(s) severed and all minerals subject to a royalty obligation.
   MINERAL or MINERALS. Oil or gas.
   OIL. Natural crude oil or petroleum and other hydrocarbons, regardless of
gravity, which are produced at the well, in liquid form by ordinary production
methods and which are not the result of condensation of gas after it leaves the
underground reservoir.
   OWNER. The owner of a legal or equitable interest in oil or gas at the time
of severance.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, cooperative, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, trustee, trustee in bankruptcy, any person acting under a declaration of
trust, executor, administrator, partner, agent, receiver, syndicate, assignee,
or other group or combination acting as a unit, in the plural, as well as in
the singular number.
   PERSON ENGAGED OR ENGAGING IN THE BUSINESS OF SEVERING OIL OR GAS FROM THE
EARTH.
      (1)   Where the minerals are unleased, the owner(s) of such minerals; or
      (2)   Where the minerals are leased, the lessee of the mineral or the
lessee of the right to extract, mine or produce such minerals.
   PLACED IN TRANSIT FOR SHIPMENT FROM THE COUNTY. The point in distribution of
the severed mineral at which the mineral is placed in final shipment from the
county with no additional treatment, processing, compression, handling or
mechanical manipulation to be performed within the county. Except in cases
where gas is produced at the wellhead at sufficient pressure and quality such
that it is not treated in any manner or compressed by mechanical compressor
within the county, gas is not placed in transit for shipment from the county at
the wellhead.
   SEVERING, SEVERANCE AND SEVERED WITH REGARD TO OIL OR GAS. The taking of any
oil or gas from any land, soil, landfill, or any other formation or source
situated in the county in any manner whatsoever.
   SEVERING GASES FROM THE EARTH IN CONNECTION WITH COAL MINING. Producing
coalbed methane gas from wells that directly or indirectly remove gas from:
units or permitted well areas which include coal seams that have been fractured
by current or previous mining activities (GOB wells); and units or permitted
well areas which include coal seams that have been fractured in the absence of
mining (FRAC wells), but where all or some of the fractured coal seams are
within a permitted mine boundary or within the area projected for mining by the
20-year mine plan map for any coal operator.
   UTILIZED OR UTILIZE WITH REGARD TO OIL OR GAS. To put to beneficial use for
such purposes as facility heating, power generation, machinery operation,
equipment operation and similar uses. Utilized minerals include oil or gas that
is severed from the earth within the county and used by the person engaged in
the business of severing oil or gas from the earth (or those acting on his or
her behalf, at his or her direction, or with his or her permission or consent)
in some beneficial manner, in which case, the severed and utilized mineral
shall be deemed to have been sold for the fair market value of such mineral.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-155 TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   A license tax is hereby levied and imposed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-
3712, 1950, as amended, on every person engaged in the business of severing gas
from the earth. Such tax shall be at a rate of 1% of gross receipts.
   (B)   In addition to the taxes levied in subsection (A) above, a license tax
is hereby levied and imposed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3713, 1950, as amended,
on every person engaged in the business of severing gas from the earth. Such
tax shall be at a rate of 1% of gross receipts.
   (C)   In addition to the taxes levied in subsections (A) and (B) above, a
license tax is hereby levied and imposed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3713.4,
1950, as amended, on every person engaged in the business of severing gas from
the earth. Such tax shall be at a rate of 1% of gross receipts. A license tax
is hereby levied and imposed on every person engaged in the business of
severing oil from the earth. Such tax shall be at a rate of one-half of 1% of
gross receipts. mThe foregoing taxes are hereby levied and imposed in addition
to all other taxes and fees of every kind now imposed by law upon every person
engaged in the business of severing oil or gas from the earth.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§§ 15-156—15-164 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO COAL, GAS AND OIL SEVERANCE
LICENSE TAXES
§ 15-165 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, unless
otherwise defined by state law.
   CLOSELY-HELD CORPORATION. A corporation not publicly traded and having 20 or
fewer shareholders.
   COMMON CARRIER. Any person involved in any phase of the transportation of
coal, oil or gas within the county or from the county. This includes, but is
not limited to, the receiving, collection or assembly of coal, oil or gas for
conveyance from one mode of transportation to another or to the same mode of
transportation, as well as the actual movement of the coal, oil or gas in
shipment.
   MINING OPERATION. Any act or activity which results in the severing of coal,
oil or gas from the earth.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, cooperative, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, trustee, trustee in bankruptcy, any person acting under a declaration of
trust, executor, administrator, partner, agent, receiver, syndicate, assignee
or other group or combination acting as a unit, in the plural, as well as in
the singular number.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-166 LICENSE GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any coal producer or any person to engage in
the business of severing coal, oil or gas from the earth within the county or
to cause others to sever coal, oil or gas from the earth within the county,
unless the coal producer or person engaging in the business of severing coal,
oil or gas from the earth has first obtained a current license to do so issued
by the Commissioner of the Revenue.
   (B)   Every coal producer and every person engaged in the business of
severing oil or gas from the earth shall file with the Commissioner of Revenue
an application for a license for each of such coal producer’s or such person’s
mining operations in the county. Every application shall be signed by each such
coal producer or person or an authorized representative of such coal producer
or person. In connection with any such application, the coal producer or the
person engaged in the business of severing oil or gas from the earth shall
provide such information as the Commissioner of Revenue may require.
   (C)   (1)   Every coal producer and every person engaged in the business of
severing oil or gas from the earth that did not have a license to sever coal,
oil or gas in the county in the previous license tax year shall file an
application as provided herein prior to beginning any severance of coal, oil or
gas in the county.
      (2)   Every coal producer and every person engaged in the business of
severing oil or gas from the earth that had a license or licenses to sever
coal, oil or gas in the county in the previous license tax year shall file an
application for the renewal of such license or licenses on or before March 1 of
the current license tax year. In such case, the existing license shall remain
in effect until the new license is issued. Issuance of a new license may be
conditioned upon receipt by the Commissioner of Revenue of a written report
from the County Treasurer documenting such person’s payment of any license
taxes due or an arrangement for the payment of any license taxes.
      (3)   The Commissioner of Revenue may grant an extension of time in which
to file an application for a license or renewal thereof, for reasonable cause.
The extension may be conditioned upon the timely payment of a reasonable
estimate of the appropriate tax. Any such estimated tax is subject to
adjustment to the correct tax at the end of the extension, together with
interest from the due date until the date paid and, if the estimate submitted
with the extension is found to be unreasonable under the circumstances, with a
penalty of 10% of the portion paid after the due date.
   (D)   When the required application has been made, the Commissioner of
Revenue shall issue to each applicant who has met all of the requirements of
this article a separate license for each mining operation within the county,
which license shall not be transferable.
   (E)   No license shall be issued or reissued under this section to a person
who owns an interest in a mining operation conducted by a person owing
delinquent taxes at the time the application is submitted, or to a person who
owes delinquent taxes. When such facts are known to the Commissioner of
Revenue, he or she may, at his or her election, hold the hearing provided for
in subsection (F) below. An arrangement for payment of delinquent taxes made by
the County Treasurer may be treated as payment for the purposes of this
section.
   (F)   Whenever any person fails to comply with any provision of this
division, the Commissioner of Revenue may hold a hearing after giving such
person ten days’ notice, in writing, specifying the time and place of hearing
and requiring the person to show cause why his or her license should not be
revoked or suspended or his or her application for renewal of his or her
license should not be denied. The Commissioner of Revenue may revoke or suspend
or deny reissuance of any one or more of the licenses held by such person.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-167 RETURNS.
   Every coal producer and every person engaged in the business of severing oil
or gas from the earth required to pay any of the taxes imposed by this article
shall, on or before the twentieth day of each month, transmit to the
Commissioner of Revenue, upon a form furnished by the Commissioner, a completed
return showing such information as the Commissioner of Revenue may require,
including the quantities of coal, oil and gas produced from each mining
operation; the gross receipts from all coal, oil and gas severed from each
mining operation during the immediately preceding calendar month; and any
deductions that have been applied in calculating gross receipts. At the request
of the Commissioner of Revenue, coal producers and persons engaging in the
business of severing oil or gas shall provide the names and addresses of any
owners or other persons participating in each mining operation, any persons who
are members of an affiliated group of which the operator is a member and to
whom the coal, oil or gas was sold or placed into transit for shipment from the
county, and all persons having an economic interest in the mining operation. In
the event that any date on which a return is to be filed falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday, legal holiday or other date on which the county courthouse is closed,
then the time for the filing of such return shall be extended until the next
day that the Commissioner of Revenue’s office is open for business. This return
shall be made under oath and subject to the penalty for perjury. The
Commissioner of Revenue shall transmit to the County Treasurer forthwith all
records related to the taxes owed by and the payments received from each coal
producer and each person engaged in the business of severing gas or oil from
the earth.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-168 PAYMENT OF TAX; PENALTY AND INTEREST ON DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   At the time of transmitting the return required by § 15-167 to the
Commissioner of Revenue, the coal producer or person engaged in the business of
severing oil or gas from the earth shall remit to the County Treasurer
therewith the amount of tax due under the applicable provisions of this
article. Failure to remit such tax by the deadline for filing the return
required by § 15-167 shall cause such tax to become delinquent.
   (B)   A penalty of 10% of the tax may be imposed upon the failure to file an
application for a license or the failure to pay the required tax by the
appropriate due dates set forth in this division. Only the late filing penalty
shall be imposed by the Commissioner of the Revenue if both the application and
tax payment are late; however, both penalties may be assessed if the
Commissioner of the Revenue determines that the taxpayer has a history of non-
compliance. In the case of an assessment of additional tax made by the
Commissioner of Revenue, if the application and, if applicable, the return were
made in good faith and the understatement of the tax was not due to any fraud
or reckless or intentional disregard of the law by the taxpayer, there shall be
no late payment penalty assessed with the additional tax. If any assessment of
tax by the Commissioner of Revenue is not paid within 30 days, the County
Treasurer may impose a 10% late payment penalty. If the failure to file or pay
was not the fault of the taxpayer, the penalties shall not be imposed, or if
imposed, shall be abated by the County Treasurer. In order to demonstrate lack
of fault, the taxpayer must show that he or she acted responsibly and that the
failure was due to events beyond his or her control.
      (1)   ACTED RESPONSIBLY means that the taxpayer exercised the level of
reasonable care that a prudent person would exercise under the circumstances in
determining the filing obligations for the business; and the taxpayer undertook
significant steps to avoid or mitigate the failure, such as requesting
appropriate extensions (where applicable), attempting to prevent a foreseeable
impediment, acting to remove an impediment once it occurred and promptly
rectifying a failure once the impediment was removed or the failure discovered.
      (2)   EVENTS BEYOND THE TAXPAYER’S CONTROL include, but are not limited
to, the unavailability of records due to fire or other casualty; the
unavoidable absence (such as, due to death or serious illness) of the person
with the sole responsibility for tax compliance; or the taxpayer’s reasonable
reliance in good faith upon erroneous written information from the assessing
official who was aware of the relevant facts relating to the taxpayer’s
business when he or she provided the erroneous information.
   (C)   Interest shall be charged on the late payment of the tax from the due
date until the date paid without regard to fault or other reason for the late
payment. Whenever an assessment of additional or omitted tax by the
Commissioner of Revenue is found to be erroneous, all interest and any
penalties charged and collected on the amount of the assessment found to be
erroneous shall be refunded together with interest on the refund from the date
of payment or the due date, whichever is later. Interest shall be paid on the
refund of any tax from the date of payment or due date, whichever is later,
whether attributable to an amended return or other reason. However, no interest
shall be paid on a refund or charged on a late payment; provided the refund or
the late payment is made not more than 30 days from the date of the payment
that created the refund or the due date of the tax, whichever is later.
Interest charged on any late payment or paid on any refund shall be calculated
at the same rate charged under VA Code § 58.1-3916. No interest shall accrue on
an adjustment of estimated tax liability to actual liability at the conclusion
of a base year.
   (D)   The County Treasurer and the Commissioner of Revenue shall reconcile
their records monthly concerning the identities of taxpayers, amounts received,
outstanding taxes due, and, if applicable, any arrangements made by the County
Treasurer for payment of delinquent taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-169 PROCEDURE WHEN COAL PRODUCER OR PERSON ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF
SEVERING OIL OR GAS FROM THE EARTH FAILS TO MAKE RETURN OR MAKES INCORRECT OR
FALSE RETURN.
   In the event any coal producer or person engaged in the business of severing
oil or gas from the earth fails to make a return as provided by this division,
the Commissioner of Revenue shall give such coal producer or such person ten
days’ notice in writing requiring such coal producer or such person to appear
before him or her, with such books, records and papers as the Commissioner of
Revenue may require relating to the business of such coal producer or such
person for such taxable period, and the Commissioner of Revenue may require
such coal producer or such person or the agents and employees of such coal
producer or such person to give testimony or to answer interrogatories under
oath respecting such mining or extracting of coal, oil or gas, or the failure
to make a return thereof as provided in this article. If, after being provided
with the opportunity to supply such information, such coal producer or such
person still fails to make a return or refuses to permit an examination of his
or its books, records or papers, or to appear and answer questions within the
scope of such investigation, the Commissioner of Revenue is hereby authorized
to make an estimate of gross receipts for all such coal, oil or gas severed by
or at the direction of such coal producer or such person, and to assess the
appropriate tax, plus penalties and interest in accordance with § 15-168, based
upon such information as may be available to him or her. The County Treasurer
may issue a warrant for the collection of any such taxes and penalties so found
to be due. The assessment so made shall be deemed prima facie correct. In
addition, the Commissioner of Revenue may, upon reasonable notice, assess taxes
for such mining operation against any other person liable for the tax.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-170 PROCEDURE WHEN COAL PRODUCER OR PERSON ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF
SEVERING OIL OR GAS FROM THE EARTH CEASES OPERATIONS.
   If the holder of a license issued under this article ceases to conduct a
mining operation, the license shall thereupon expire and such license holder
shall inform the Commissioner of Revenue in writing within 30 days thereafter
that he or she has ceased to conduct such mining operation. A copy of such
report, upon receipt thereof, shall be forwarded to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-171 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person who is assessable with a license tax under this
division or who is a common carrier of coal, oil or gas shall keep sufficient
records, including, but not limited to, records showing the source and quantity
of, and gross receipts from, the coal, oil and gas which he or she has produced
or transported, or for which he or she has received some economic benefit, to
enable the Commissioner of Revenue to verify the correctness of the tax paid
for the license months or years assessable and to enable the Commissioner of
Revenue to ascertain what is the correct amount of tax that was assessable for
each of those months or years.
      (2)   All such records, books of accounts, and other information shall be
open to inspection and examination by the Commissioner of Revenue in order to
allow the Commissioner of Revenue to establish whether a particular receipt is
directly attributable to the taxable privilege exercised within the county.
      (3)   The Commissioner of Revenue shall provide such persons with the
option to conduct the audit in such person’s local business office within the
county, if the records are maintained there. In the event the records are
maintained outside the county, copies of the appropriate books and records
shall be sent to the Commissioner’s office upon demand.
   (B)   Any common carrier involved in the transportation of coal, oil or gas
within or from the county shall submit, upon request, to the Commissioner of
Revenue records showing the source and quantity of, and, if purchased, the
price paid for, all coal, oil or gases which the common carrier acquired or
transported during the applicable time periods. This information may be made
available to any other political subdivision in which the coal, oil or gas may
have been severed.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-172 DISTRIBUTION OF TAXES COLLECTED.
   (A)   The taxes collected pursuant to this division shall be paid and
distributed as provided by state law. Any taxes not distributed according to
specific provisions of law shall be paid into the general fund of the county.
   (B)   In the event that a taxpayer is issued a refund of severance license
taxes paid pursuant to this division, the recipients of the revenue from such
severance license taxes shall be proportionately liable for such refund based
on their respective percentages of the original distribution of such revenue.
The County Treasurer is hereby authorized to off-set such liability for any
such refund against any future distribution of severance license tax revenues
paid pursuant to this division.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-173 COAL AND GAS ROAD IMPROVEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE GENERALLY.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3713, there is hereby established a Coal and Gas
Road Improvement Advisory Committee to be composed of four members as follows:
a member of the Board of Supervisors of the county appointed by the Board of
Supervisors; a representative of the Virginia Department of Transportation; and
two citizens of the county connected with the coal and gas industries, and to
be appointed for a term of four years by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-174 COAL AND GAS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3713, the Coal and Gas Road Improvement
Advisory Committee shall develop, on or before July 1 of each year, a plan for
improvement of roads during the following fiscal year.
   (B)   Such plan must have the approval of three members of the Committee and
shall be submitted to the Board of Supervisors of the county for approval. The
Board of Supervisors may approve or disapprove such plan, but may make no
changes without the approval of three members of the Committee.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-175 USE OF COUNTY FUNDS FOR COAL AND GAS ROAD IMPROVEMENTS IN TOWNS OR
CITY.
   The Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, and when permitted by
applicable state law, elect to improve city and town roads with its funds, if
consent of the city or town council is obtained.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-176 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The following persons shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor:
         (a)   Any person who engages in the business of severing coal, oil or
gas from the earth in this county without first obtaining a license or after a
license has been suspended or revoked;
         (b)   Each officer or director of a corporation that engages in the
business of severing coal, oil or gas from the earth in this county without
first obtaining a license or after a license has been suspended or revoked;
provided that such officer or director had actual or constructive knowledge
that the corporation was engaging in the business of severing coal, oil or gas
from the earth in this county without first obtaining a license or after a
license had been suspended or revoked;
         (c)   Each shareholder of a closely-held corporation that engages in
the business of severing coal, oil or gas from the earth in this county without
first obtaining a license or after a license has been suspended or revoked;
provided that such shareholder had actual or constructive knowledge that the
corporation was engaging in the business of severing coal, oil or gas from the
earth in this county without first obtaining a license or after a license had
been suspended or revoked; or
         (d)   Any person who violates any provision of this division.
      (2)   Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. No
person shall be convicted under the provisions of subsections (A)(1)(a) and (A)
(1)(c) above who shall have objected to the conduct of the mining operation in
writing to the president or secretary of such corporation and forwarded a copy
of this objection to the Commissioner of the Revenue.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
         (a)   To fail to keep the records required by this division or fail to
make such records available as herein required;
         (b)   Willfully to fail to pay, collect or truthfully account for and
pay any license tax herein imposed; or
         (c)   Willfully to attempt in any manner to evade or defeat any such
license tax or the payment thereof.
      (2)   Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Violations under this section shall be Class 1 misdemeanors, and shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each day of violation and
confinement in the county jail for not more than 12 months, either or both in
the discretion of the court or jury trying the case. Conviction of a second
offense under this section shall, in addition to a fine not to exceed $2,500,
require confinement in the county jail for not less than ten days nor more than
12 months.
   (D)   Any penalty imposed for violation of this section shall be in addition
to the civil remedies or penalties provided for by law.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-177 LIMITATIONS AND EXTENSIONS OF ASSESSMENTS AND COLLECTIONS OF TAX.
   (A)   Where, before the expiration of the time prescribed for the assessment
of any license tax imposed pursuant to this division, both the Commissioner of
Revenue and the taxpayer have consented in writing to its assessment after such
time, the tax may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of the period
agreed upon. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements
in writing made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
   (B)   Notwithstanding VA Code § 58.1-3903, the Commissioner of Revenue shall
assess the license tax omitted because of fraud or failure to apply for a
license for the current license tax year and the six preceding license tax
years.
   (C)   The period for collecting any local license tax shall not expire prior
to the period specified in VA Code § 58.1-3940, two years after the date of
assessment if the period for assessment has been extended pursuant to this
section, two years after the final determination of an appeal for which
collection has been stayed pursuant to § 15-178(B) or (D), or two years after
the final decision in a court application pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984 or a
similar law for which collection has been stayed, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-178 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS TO THE COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMOUNT IN DISPUTE. When used with respect to taxes due or assessed, the
amount specifically identified in the administrative appeal or application for
judicial review as disputed by the party filing such appeal or application.
      APPEALABLE EVENT. An increase in the assessment of a license tax payable
by a taxpayer, the denial of a refund, or the assessment of a license tax where
none previously was assessed, arising out of the Commissioner of Revenue’s
examination of records, financial statements, books of account or other
information for the purpose of determining the correctness of an assessment;
determination regarding the rate or classification applicable to the licensable
business; assessment of a license tax when no return has been filed by the
taxpayer; or denial of an application for correction of erroneous assessment
attendant to the filing of an amended application for license.
      FRIVOLOUS. A finding, based on specific facts, that the party asserting
the appeal is unlikely to prevail upon the merits because the appeal is not
well grounded in fact; not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument
for the extension, modification or reversal of existing law; interposed for an
improper purpose, such as to harass, to cause unnecessary delay in the payment
of tax or a refund or to create needless cost from the litigation; or otherwise
frivolous.
      JEOPARDIZED BY DELAY. A finding, based upon specific facts, that a
taxpayer designs to depart quickly from the county; remove his or her property
from the county; conceal himself or herself or his or her property in the
county; or do any other act tending to prejudice, or to render wholly or
partially ineffectual, proceedings to collect the tax for the period in
question.
   (B)   Filing and contents of administrative appeal. Any person assessed with
a license tax as a result of an appealable event as defined in this section may
file an administrative appeal of the assessment within one year from the last
day of the tax year for which such assessment is made, or within one year from
the date of the appealable event, whichever is later, with the Commissioner of
the Revenue. The appeal must be filed in good faith and sufficiently identify
the taxpayer, the tax periods covered by the challenged assessments, the amount
in dispute, the remedy sought, each alleged error in the assessment, the
grounds upon which the taxpayer relies, and any other facts relevant to the
taxpayer’s contention. The Commissioner of Revenue may hold a conference with
the taxpayer if requested by the taxpayer, or require submission of additional
information and documents, an audit or further audit, or other evidence deemed
necessary for a proper and equitable determination of the appeal. The
assessment placed at issue in the appeal shall be deemed prima facie correct.
The Commissioner of Revenue shall undertake a full review of the taxpayer’s
claims and issue a written determination to the taxpayer setting forth the
facts and arguments in support of his or her decision.
   (C)   Notice of right of appeal and procedures. Every assessment made by the
Commissioner of Revenue pursuant to an appealable event shall include or be
accompanied by a written explanation of the taxpayer’s right to file an
administrative appeal and the specific procedures to be followed in the county,
the name and address to which the appeal should be directed, an explanation of
the required content of the appeal, and the deadline for the filing of an
appeal.
   (D)   Suspension of collection activity during appeal. Provided a timely and
complete administrative appeal is filed, collection activity with respect to
the amount in dispute shall be suspended until a final determination is issued
by the Commissioner of Revenue, unless the County Treasurer determines that
collection would be jeopardized by delay as defined in subsection (A) above; is
advised by the Commissioner of Revenue that the taxpayer has not responded to a
request for relevant information after a reasonable time; or is advised by the
Commissioner of Revenue that the appeal is frivolous as defined in subsection
(A) above. Interest shall accrue in accordance with the provisions of § 15-168
(C), but no further penalty shall be imposed while the collection action is
suspended.
   (E)   Procedure in event of non-decision. Any taxpayer whose administrative
appeal to the Commissioner of Revenue pursuant to the provisions of this
section has been pending for more than one year without the issuance of a final
determination may, upon not less than 30 days’ written notice to the
Commissioner of Revenue, elect to treat the appeal as denied and appeal the
assessment to the Tax Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of § 15-
179. The Tax Commissioner shall not consider an appeal filed pursuant to the
provisions of this article if he or she finds that the absence of a final
determination on the part of the Commissioner of Revenue was caused by the
willful failure or refusal of the taxpayer to provide information requested and
reasonably needed by the Commissioner of Revenue to make his or her
determination.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-179 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL TO THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Generally. Any person assessed with a local license tax as a result of
a determination, upon an administrative appeal to the Commissioner of Revenue
pursuant to § 15-178, that is adverse to the position asserted by the taxpayer
in such appeal may appeal such assessment to the Tax Commissioner within 90
days of the date of the determination by the Commissioner of Revenue. The
appeal shall be in such form as the Tax Commissioner may prescribe and the
taxpayer shall serve a copy of the appeal upon the Commissioner of Revenue. The
Tax Commissioner shall permit the Commissioner of Revenue to participate in the
proceedings, and shall issue a determination to the taxpayer within 90 days of
receipt of the taxpayer’s application, unless the taxpayer and the Commissioner
of Revenue are notified that a longer period will be required. The appeal shall
proceed in the same manner as an application pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-1821,
and the Tax Commissioner may issue an order correcting such assessment pursuant
to VA Code § 58.1-1822.
   (B)   Suspension of collection activity during appeal. On receipt of a
notice of intent to file an appeal to the Tax Commissioner pursuant to the
provisions of subsection (A) above, collection activity with respect to the
amount in dispute shall be suspended until a final determination is issued by
the Tax Commissioner, unless the County Treasurer determines that collection
would be jeopardized by delay as defined in §
15-178(A); is advised by the Commissioner of Revenue, or the Tax Commissioner,
that the taxpayer has not responded to a request for relevant information after
a reasonable time; or is advised by the Commissioner of Revenue that the appeal
is frivolous as defined in §
15-178(A). Interest shall accrue in accordance with the provisions of §
15-168(C), but no further penalty shall be imposed while collection action is
suspended. The requirement that collection activity be suspended shall cease
unless an appeal pursuant to the provisions of subsection (A) above is filed
and served on the necessary parties within 30 days of the service of notice of
intent to file such appeal.
   (C)   Implementation of determination of Tax Commissioner. Promptly upon
receipt of the final determination of the Tax Commissioner with respect to an
appeal pursuant to the provisions of subsection (A) above, the Commissioner of
Revenue shall take those steps necessary to calculate the amount of tax owed by
or refund due to the taxpayer consistent with the Tax Commissioner’s
determination and shall provide that information to the taxpayer and to the
County Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of this division.
      (1)   If the determination of the Tax Commissioner sets forth a specific
amount of tax due, the Commissioner of Revenue shall certify the amount to the
County Treasurer and the County Treasurer shall issue a bill to the taxpayer
for such amount due, together with interest accrued and penalty, if any is
authorized by this article, within 30 days of the date of the determination of
the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   If the determination of the Tax Commissioner sets forth a specific
amount of refund due, the Commissioner of Revenue shall certify the amount to
the County Treasurer and the County Treasurer shall issue a payment to the
taxpayer for such amount due together with interest accrued pursuant to this
article, within 30 days of the date of the determination of the Tax
Commissioner.
      (3)   If the determination of the Tax Commissioner does not set forth a
specific amount of tax due, or otherwise requires the Commissioner of Revenue
to undertake a new or revised assessment that will result in an obligation to
pay a tax that has not previously been paid in full, the Commissioner of
Revenue shall promptly commence the steps necessary to undertake such new or
revised assessment, and provide the same to the taxpayer within 60 days of the
date of the determination of the Tax Commissioner, or within 60 days after
receipt from the taxpayer of any additional information requested or reasonably
required under the determination of the Tax Commissioner, whichever is later.
The Commissioner of Revenue shall certify the new assessment to the County
Treasurer and the County Treasurer shall issue a bill to the taxpayer for the
amount due, together with interest accrued and penalty, if any as authorized by
this division, within 30 days of the date of the new assessment.
      (4)   If the determination of the Tax Commissioner does not set forth a
specific amount of refund due, or otherwise requires the Commissioner of
Revenue to undertake a new or revised assessment that will result in an
obligation on the part of the locality to make a refund of taxes previously
paid, the Commissioner of Revenue shall promptly commence the steps necessary
to undertake such new or revised assessment, and provide the same to the
taxpayer within 60 days of the date of the determination of the Tax
Commissioner, or within 60 days after receipt from the taxpayer of any
additional information requested or reasonably required under the determination
of the Tax Commissioner, whichever is later. The Commissioner of Revenue shall
certify the new assessment to the County Treasurer and the County Treasurer
shall issue a refund to the taxpayer for the amount of tax due, together with
interest accrued, within 30 days of the date of the new assessment.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-180 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DETERMINATION OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Judicial review. Following the issuance of a final determination of
the Tax Commissioner pursuant to §
15-179(A), the taxpayer or Commissioner of the Revenue may apply to the Circuit
Court in the county for judicial review of the determination, or any part
thereof, pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984. In any such proceeding for judicial
review of a determination of the Tax Commissioner, the burden shall be on the
party challenging the determination of the Tax Commissioner, or any part
thereof, to show that the ruling of the Tax Commissioner is erroneous with
respect to the part challenged. Neither the Tax Commissioner nor the Department
of Taxation shall be made a party to an application to correct an assessment
merely because the Tax Commissioner has ruled on it.
   (B)   Suspension of payment of disputed amount of tax due upon taxpayer’s
notice intent to initiate judicial review.
      (1)   On receipt of a notice of intent to file an application for
judicial review, pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984, of a determination of the Tax
Commissioner pursuant to §
15-179(A) and upon payment of the amount of the tax that is not in dispute
together with any penalty and interest then due with respect to such undisputed
portion of the tax, the County Treasurer shall further suspend collection
activity while the court retains jurisdiction unless the court, upon
appropriate motion after notice and an opportunity to be heard, determined that
the taxpayer’s application for judicial review is frivolous, as defined in §
15-178(A); collection would be jeopardized by delay, as defined in §
15-178(A); or suspension of collection would cause substantial economic
hardship to the county. For purposes of determining whether substantial
economic hardship to the county would arise from a suspension of collection
activity, the court shall consider the cumulative effect of then pending
appeals filed within the county by different taxpayers that allege common
claims or theories of relief.
      (2)   Upon a determination that the appeal is frivolous, that collection
may be jeopardized by delay, or that suspension of collection would result in
substantial economic hardship to the county, the court may require the taxpayer
to pay the amount in dispute or a portion thereof, or to provide surety for
payment of the amount in dispute in a form acceptable to the court.
      (3)   No suspension of collection activity shall be required if the
application for judicial review fails to identify with particularity the amount
in dispute.
      (4)   The requirement that collection activity be suspended shall cease
unless an application for judicial review pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984 is
filed and served on the necessary parties within 30 days of the service of the
notice of intent to file such application.
      (5)   The suspension of collection activity authorized by this section
shall not be applicable to any appeal of a license tax that is initiated by the
direct filing of an action pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984 without prior
exhaustion of the appeals provided by §§
15-178 and
15-179.
   (C)   Suspension of payment of disputed amount of refund due upon the
county’s notice of intent to initiate judicial review.
      (1)   Payment of any refund determined to be due pursuant to the
determination of the Tax Commissioner of an appeal pursuant to §
15-179(A) shall be suspended if the county serves upon the taxpayer, within 60
days of the date of the determination of the Tax Commissioner, a notice of
intent to file an application for judicial review of the Tax Commissioner’s
determination pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984, and pays the amount of the
refund not in dispute including tax and accrued interest.
      (2)   Payment of such refund shall remain suspended while the court
retains jurisdiction unless the court, upon appropriate motion after notice and
an opportunity to be heard, determines that the county’s application for
judicial review is frivolous, as defined in §
15-178(A).
      (3)   No suspension of refund activity shall be permitted if the county’s
application for judicial review fails to identify with particularity the amount
in dispute.
      (4)   The suspension of the obligation to make a refund shall cease
unless an application for judicial review pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3984 is
filed and served on the necessary parties within 30 days of the service of the
notice of intent to file such application.
   (D)   Accrual of interest on unpaid amount of tax. Interest shall accrue in
accordance with the provisions of §
15-168(C), but no further penalty shall be imposed while collection action is
suspended.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-181 RULINGS.
   (A)   Any taxpayer or authorized representative of a taxpayer may request a
written ruling regarding the application of a license tax to a specific
situation from the Commissioner of Revenue. Any person requesting such a ruling
must provide all facts relevant to the situation placed at issue and may
present a rationale for the basis of an interpretation of the law most
favorable to the taxpayer.
   (B)   Any misrepresentation or change in the applicable law or the factual
situation as presented in the ruling request shall invalidate any such ruling
issues.
   (C)   (1)   A written ruling may be revoked or amended prospectively if
there is a change in the law, a court decision or the guidelines issued by the
Department of Taxation upon which the ruling was based, or the Commissioner of
Revenue notifies the taxpayer of a change in the policy or interpretation upon
which the ruling was based.
      (2)   However, any person who acts on a written ruling which later
becomes invalid shall be deemed to have acted in good faith during the period
in which such ruling was in effect.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-182 AUDITS.
   The Commissioner of Revenue is authorized to perform any audits in
connection with his or her duty to assess the taxes levied by this division
that, in his or her discretion, are necessary to enable him or her to verify
the correctness of the tax paid for the license months or years assessable and
to enable him or her to ascertain what is the correct amount of tax that was
assessable for each of those months or years.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-183 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any provisions of this article or any part, section, division,
sentence, definition or phrase thereof should be held unconstitutional or
otherwise void or invalid on any ground, such provision, part, section,
division, sentence or phrase shall be deemed severable and the remainder of
this article shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-184 UNIFORM PROVISIONS OF VA CODE § 58.1-3703.1.
   (A)   It is the intention of this division to include the uniform ordinance
provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3703.1, with the exception of subdivisions (A)(1)
and (A)(3) of such section.
   (B)   To the extent that any provision of this division is in conflict with
the provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3703.1, or this division fails to recite or
contain provisions substantially similar to those set forth in VA Code § 58.1-
3703.1 (with the exception of subdivisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of such section),
such provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3703.1 are incorporated herein by reference
and shall take precedence over any conflicting provisions in this division.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 15-185 AGREEMENTS WITH TAXPAYERS.
   No provision of this division shall be construed or interpreted to change or
affect, invalidate, or interfere with any agreement regarding coal, gas or oil
severance license taxes entered into between a taxpayer and the Commissioner of
Revenue or other local assessing official of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§§ 15-186—15-194 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI. ELECTRIC CONSUMER TAX
§ 15-195 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. Every person who, individually or through agents, employees,
officers, representatives or permittees, makes a taxable purchase of
electricity in this jurisdiction.
   KILOWATT HOURS (kWh) DELIVERED. One thousand watts of electricity delivered
in a one-hour period by an electric provider to an actual consumer, except that
in the case of eligible customer generators (sometimes called co-generators) as
defined in VA Code § 56-594, it means kWh supplied from the electric grid to
such customer generators, minus the kWh generated and fed back to the electric
grid by such customer generators.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company or other entity.
   RESIDENTIAL CONSUMER. The owner or tenant of property used primarily for
residential purposes, including, but not limited to, apartment houses and other
multiple-family dwellings.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. The person who delivers electricity to a consumer.
   USED PRIMARILY. Relates to the larger portion of the use for which electric
utility service is furnished.
(Ord. 00–047, passed 10-24-2000)
§ 15-196 ELECTRIC UTILITY CONSUMER TAX.
   (A)   Generally. In accordance with VA Code § 58.1-3814, effective January
1, 2001, there is hereby imposed and levied a monthly tax on each purchase of
electricity delivered to consumers by a service provider, classified as
determined by such provider, as follows.
      (1)   Residential consumers. Such tax shall be 15% times the minimum
monthly charge imposed upon the consumer plus the rate of $0.008858 on each kWh
delivered monthly to residential consumers by the service provider not to
exceed $2.25 monthly.
      (2)   Non-residential consumers. Such tax on non-residential consumers
shall be at the rates per month for the classes of non-residential consumers.
Commercial/industrial: such tax shall be 15% times the minimum monthly charge
imposed upon the consumer plus the rate of $0.010519 on each kWh delivered
monthly, not to exceed $2.25 per month.
      (3)   Conversion. The conversion of tax pursuant to this article to
monthly kWh delivered shall not be effective before the first meter reading
after December 31, 2000, prior to which time the tax previously imposed by this
jurisdiction shall be in effect.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following consumers of electricity are exempt from the
tax imposed by this article.
      (1)   Any public safety agency as defined in VA Code § 32.1-45.2; and
      (2)   The United States of America, the commonwealth and the political
subdivisions thereof, including this jurisdiction.
   (C)   Billing, collection and remittance of tax.
      (1)   The service provided shall bill the electricity consumer tax to all
users who are subject to the tax and to whom it delivers electricity and shall
remit the same to this jurisdiction on a monthly basis. Such taxes shall be
paid by the service provider to this jurisdiction in accordance with VA Code §§
58.1, Chapter 29, and 58.1-2901. If any consumer receives and pays for
electricity but refuses to pay the tax imposed by this section, the service
provider shall notify this jurisdiction of the name and address of each
consumer. If any consumer fails to pay a bill issued by a service provider,
including the tax imposed by this section, the service provider must follow its
normal collection procedures and upon collection of the bill or any part
thereof, must apportion the net amount collected between the charge for
electric service and the tax and remit the tax portion to this jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any tax paid by the consumer to the service provider shall be
deemed to be held in trust by such provider until remitted to this
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Computation of bills not on monthly basis. Bills shall be considered
as monthly bills for the purposes of this article if submitted 12 times per
year of approximately one month each. Accordingly, the tax for a bi-monthly
bill (approximately 60 days) shall be determined as follows: (I) the kWh will
be divided by two; (ii) a monthly tax will be calculated using the rates set
forth above; (iii) the tax determined shall be multiplied by (ii) shall be
multiplied by two; (iv) the tax in (iii) may not exceed twice the monthly
maximum tax.
(Ord. 00–047, passed 10-24-2000)
§ 15-197 PENALTIES.
   A consumer of electricity failing, refusing or neglecting to pay the tax
imposed and levied under this article, and any officer, agent or employee of
any service provider violating the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by fines of not more than $500. Each such
failure refusal, neglect or violation shall constitute a separate offense. Such
conviction shall not relieve any person from the payment, collection and
remittance of the tax as provided in this article.
(Ord. 00–047, passed 10-24-2000)
§§ 15-198—15-206 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XII. ELECTRIC CONSUMPTION TAX
§ 15-207 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2003, there is hereby imposed, in addition to the
local consumer utility tax of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 38, Article 4 (§§
58.1-3812 et seq.), 1950, as amended, and subject to the adjustments authorized
by VA Code § 58.1-2902, a tax on the consumers of electricity in the county,
based on kilowatt hours delivered by the incumbent distribution utility and
used per month as follows.
      (1)   Each consumer of electricity in the county shall pay electric
utility consumption tax on all electricity consumed per month not in excess of
2,500 kWh at the rate of $0.00038/kWh.
      (2)   Each consumer of electricity in the county shall pay electric
utility consumption tax on all electricity consumed per month in excess of
2,500 kWh but not in excess of 50,000 kWh at the rate of $0.00024/kWh.
      (3)   Each consumer of electricity in the county shall pay electric
utility consumption tax on all electricity consumed per month in excess of
50,000 kWh at the rate of $0.00018/kWh.
      (4)   The tax rates set forth in subsections (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3)
above are in lieu of and replace the state gross receipts tax (VA Code § 58.1-
2626), the special regulatory revenue tax (VA Code § 58.1-2660), and the local
license tax (VA Code § 58.1-3731) levied on corporations furnishing heat, light
or power by means of electricity.
      (5)   The tax on consumers under this section shall not be imposed on
consumers served by an electric utility owned or operated by a municipality if
such municipal electric utility elects to have an amount equivalent to the tax
added on the bill such utility (or an association or agency of which it is a
member) pays for bundled or unbundled transmission service as a separate item.
Such amount, equivalent to the tax, shall be calculated under the tax rate
schedule as if the municipal electric utility were selling and collecting the
tax from its consumers, adjusted to exclude the amount which represents the
local consumption tax if the locality in which a consumer is located does not
impose a license fee rate pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3731 and shall be remitted
to the county.
      (6)   The tax on consumers set forth in subsections (A)(1), (A)(2) and
(A)(3) above shall only be imposed in accordance with this subsection (A)(6) on
consumers of electricity purchased from a utility consumer services cooperative
to the extent that such cooperative purchases, for the purpose of resale within
the commonwealth, electricity from a federal entity that made payments in
accordance with federal law in lieu of taxes during such taxable period to the
commonwealth, and on the basis of such federal entity’s gross proceeds
resulting from the sale of such electricity. Such tax shall instead be
calculated by deducting from each of the respective tax amounts calculated in
accordance with subsections (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) above an amount equal to
the calculated tax amount multiplied by the ratio of the total cost of power
supplied by the federal entity, including facilities rental, during the taxable
period to the utility consumer services cooperative’s total operating revenue
within the county during the taxable period.
   (B)   The tax authorized by this section shall not apply to the county’s own
use or to the use by divisions or agencies of federal, state and local
governments.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, KILOWATT HOURS DELIVERED shall mean in
the case of eligible customer generators, as defined in VA Code § 56-594, those
kilowatt hours supplied from the electric grid to such customer generators,
minus the kilowatt hours generated and fed back to the electric grid by such
customer generators.
   (D)   All service providers shall bill the electricity consumption taxes
imposed by this section to all consumers who are subject to the tax and all
such service providers shall remit all taxes collected from consumers to the
county on a monthly basis in accordance with appropriate provisions of VA Code
§§ 58.1-2901, 58.1-2905 and 58.1-3814. Until a consumer pays any tax levied
herein, that tax shall constitute a debt to the county. If any consumer
receives and pays for electricity and refuses to pay any of the taxes imposed
herein, then that service provider shall notify the county of the name and
address of such consumer. If any consumer fails to pay a bill issued by a
service provider for the taxes imposed herein, then that service provider must
follow its normal collection procedures and upon collection of the bill or any
part thereof, must apportion the net amount collected between the charge for
the electricity service and the tax and remit the tax portion of the county.
Any tax paid by the consumer to any service provider shall be deemed to be held
in trust by such provider until remitted to the county. Bills shall be
considered as monthly bills for the purpose of this section if submitted 12
times per year at intervals of approximately 30 days. Accordingly, the tax for
any bi-monthly bill (approximately 60 days in each billing cycle) shall be
determined as follows:
      (1)   A monthly usage of electricity use shall be calculated by dividing
the kWh number in a bi-monthly bill by two;
      (2)   A monthly tax shall then be calculated by multiplying the quotient
determined in subsection (D)(1) above, by the rate in the appropriate
classification set forth herein;
      (3)   The monthly tax determined in subsection (D)(3) above, shall be
multiplied by two; and
      (4)   The tax determined in subsection (D)(3) above, shall not exceed
twice the monthly maximum tax for the appropriate classification set forth in
herein.
(Ord. 02-057, passed 10-29-2002)
§§ 15-208—15-216 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIII. ENHANCED 911 SERVICE TAX
§ 15-217 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC LOCATION IDENTIFICATION or ALI. A telephone network capability
that enables the automatic display of information defining the geographical
location of the telephone used to place a wireline 9-1-1 call.
   AUTOMATIC NUMBER IDENTIFICATION or ANI. A telephone network capability that
enables the automatic display of the telephone number used to place a wireline
9-1-1 call.
   ENHANCED 9-1-1 SERVICE or E-911. A service consisting of telephone network
features and PSAPs provided for users of telephone systems enabling such users
to reach a PSAP by dialing the digits 9-1-1. Such service automatically directs
9-1-1 emergency telephone calls to the appropriate PSAPs by selective routing
based on the geographical location from which the emergency call originated and
provides the capability for ANI and ALI features.
   LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Any public service company or county, city or town
granted a certificate to provide local exchange telephone service pursuant to
VA Code Title 56, Chapter 10.1 (§§ 56-265.1 et seq.)
   PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT or PSAP. A communications facility equipped
and staffed on a 24-hour basis to receive and process 911 calls.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-218 ESTABLISHMENT OF E-911 SYSTEM; USE OF TAX REVENUES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors hereby finds and declares that an E-911
service network linking the PSAP(s) serving the county will be established in
the foreseeable future and that the imposition of the E-911 tax is necessary to
provide revenues to fund the creation and continuing costs of such system.
   (B)   The revenues received by the county from the tax imposed by this
article shall be used solely to pay for reasonable, direct recurring and non-
recurring capital costs, and operating expenses incurred by a public safety
answering point in designing, upgrading, leasing, purchasing, programming,
installing, testing, administering, delivering, or maintaining all necessary
data, hardware and software required to receive and process emergency telephone
calls through an E-911 system, including salaries and fringe benefits of
dispatchers, and direct call-takers of an E-911 system and costs incurred in
training dispatchers and direct call-takers in receiving and dispatching
emergency telephone calls, and the salary and fringe benefits of the Public
Safety Answering Point Director or Coordinator, so long as such person has no
other duties other than the responsibility for the public safety answering
point.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-219 EFFECTIVE DATE; IMPOSITION OF TAX; ESTABLISHMENT OF RATE.
   Effective February 1,2005, a special tax is hereby imposed on consumers in
the county of the services furnished by local exchange carriers certificated to
provide wireline telephone services within the county. Such tax is hereby
imposed per customer access line at a rate set by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors to ensure that the revenues collected do not exceed nor fall short
of the amounts necessary to accomplish the purposes for which such revenues may
lawfully be used.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-220 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The local E-911 tax shall not be imposed on:
   (A)   Services furnished to federal, state or local government agencies; and
   (B)   Wireless telephone or commercial mobile radio services that are
subject to the wireless E-911 surcharge imposed by the commonwealth.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-221 COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each local exchange carrier certificated to
serve the county, or areas thereof, to bill and collect the tax monthly on each
customer access line that is subject to the tax. The County Administrator is
authorized and directed to notify all such carriers of the tax, and of such
changes in the rate thereof as may be adopted from time to time.
   (B)   Each local exchange carrier shall report and pay over all taxes
collected in each calendar month to the County Treasurer by the last business
day of the second calendar month thereafter. The carrier shall be deemed to
hold such collected taxes in trust for the benefit of the county and E-911
system until they are remitted to the Treasurer.
   (C)   Each such local exchange carrier shall also report monthly to the
Treasurer the names and addresses of any customers with service addresses in
the county who have failed or refused to pay the tax as bills. Each carrier’s
records of the billing and collection of the local E-911 tax shall be available
for inspection by the Treasurer or other duly authorized agents of the county
upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours.
   (D)   As compensation for billing, collecting, accounting for and remitting
the local E-911 tax, each carrier shall be entitled to deduct and keep 3% of
the amount of the tax due and payable.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-222 ACCOUNTING FOR TAX RECEIPTS AND E-911 EXPENDITURES.
   The County Administrator and Treasurer shall account for the local E-911 tax
in a separate special revenue fund or by using a cost center and revenue
accounting system acceptable to the State Auditor of Public Accounts. Revenues,
expenditures and balances of such fund or cost center shall be reported in the
manner required by VA Code § 15.2-2510 and other applicable state laws or
regulations. The annual independent audit of county funds shall include audit
procedures consistent with state requirements, to ensure that revenues from the
E-911 tax are expended solely to pay eligible costs as defined in § 15-218 and
applicable provisions of state law.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§ 15-223 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any telephone service customer who neglects, fails or refuses to pay
the tax imposed by this article, and any local exchange carrier who neglect,
fails or refuses to bill, collect, account for and remit the tax as required by
this article, shall be guilty of a Class IV misdemeanor punishable by a fine
not to exceed $250.
   (B)   Each day that such neglect, failure or refusal continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Such conviction shall not relieve any person
from the payment, collection or remittance of the tax as provided in this
article.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
§§ 15-224—15-232 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIV. MISCELLANEOUS TAXES
§ 15-233 FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied a 5% tax on food and beverages sold, for human
consumption, by any restaurant, as such term is defined in VA Code § 35.1-1,
within the boundaries of the county.
   (B)   (1)   Such tax shall not be levied on food and beverages sold through
vending machines or by:
         (a)   Boardinghouses that do not accommodate transients;
         (b)   Cafeterias operated by industrial plants for employees only;
         (c)   Restaurants to their employees as part of their compensation
when no charge is made to the employee;
         (d)   Volunteer fire departments and volunteer emergency medical
services agencies; non-profit churches or other religious bodies; or
educational, charitable, fraternal or benevolent organizations the first three
times per calendar year and, beginning with the fourth time, on the first
$100,000 of gross receipts per calendar year from sales of food and beverages
(excluding gross receipts from the first three times), as a fundraising
activity, the gross proceeds of which are to be used by such church, religious
body or organization exclusively for non-profit educational, charitable,
benevolent or religious purposes;
         (e)   Churches that serve meals for their members as a regular part of
their religious observances;
         (f)   Public or private elementary or secondary schools or
institutions of higher education to their students or employees;
         (g)   Hospitals, medical clinics, convalescent homes, nursing homes or
other extended care facilities to patients or residents thereof;
         (h)   Day care centers;
         (I)   Homes for the aged, infirm, handicapped, battered women,
narcotic addicts or alcoholics;
         (j)   Age restricted apartment complexes or residences with
restaurants, not open to the public, where meals are served and fees are
charged for such food and beverages, and are included in rental fees; or
         (k)   Sellers at local farmers markets and roadside stands, when such
sellers’ annual income from such sales does not exceed $2,500.
      (2)   For the exemption described in subsection (A)(1)(k) above, the
sellers’ annual income shall include income from sales at all local farmers
markets and roadside stands, not just those sales occurring in the locality
imposing the tax. Also, the tax shall not be levied on food and beverages:
         (a)   When used or consumed and paid for by the commonwealth, any
political subdivision of the commonwealth or the United States;
         (b)   Provided by a public or private non-profit charitable
organization or establishment to elderly, infirm, blind, handicapped or needy
persons in their homes, or at central locations; or
         (c)   Provided by private establishments that contract with the
appropriate agency of the commonwealth to offer food, food products or
beverages for immediate consumption at concession prices to elderly, infirm,
blind, handicapped or needy persons in their homes, or at central locations.
   (C)   Grocery stores and convenience stores selling prepared foods ready for
human consumption at a delicatessen counter shall be subject to the tax, for
that portion of the grocery store or convenience store selling such items.
   (D)   The term BEVERAGE as set forth herein shall mean alcoholic beverages
as defined in VA Code § 4.1-100 and non-alcoholic beverages served as part of a
meal. The tax shall be in addition to the sales tax currently imposed by the
county pursuant to the authority of VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 6 (§§ 58.1-600
et seq.) Collection of such tax shall be in a manner prescribed by the
governing body.
   (E)   The tax shall be collected by the vendor of food and beverages subject
to the tax and shall be remitted to the Commissioner of the Revenue, along with
any form(s) required by said Commissioner of the Revenue. Taxes will be
remitted monthly and will be due and payable no later than the twentieth day of
the month following.
   (F)   Vendors remitting the food and beverage tax will be allowed to retain
0.25% of the tax or 5% of the total tax collected.
   (G)   The tax imposed pursuant to this section shall not apply within the
limits of any town located in such county, where such town now, or hereafter,
imposes a town food and beverage tax.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2021)
§§ 15-234—15-242 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XV. UTILITY RECEIPTS TAX
§ 15-243 TAX IMPOSED.
   For each year beginning September 1 following the effective date of this
article and continuing each and every year thereafter, there is hereby levied
upon any telephone or telegraph company, in accord with the provisions of VA
Code Title 58.1, Chapter 26, Article 2, 1950, as amended, for the privilege of
doing business within the county, a license tax equal to 0.5% of the gross
receipts of such business accruing to such company or corporation from such
business in the county.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2000)
§ 15-244 ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION.
   The following provisions shall be applicable to the hereinabove described
tax.
   (A)   Gross receipts of any such corporation or company shall be ascertained
as December 31 of each year and the tax for the current calendar year shall be
based on receipts for the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   The license tax hereinabove levied shall be assessed on January 1 of
each calendar year thereafter, beginning with and including January 1, 2000.
   (C)   The license tax assessed shall be due and payable to the County
Treasurer on or before July 1 following the date on which the taxes are
assessed.
   (D)   Any company or corporation failing to pay the tax into the County
Treasurer on or before July 1 shall incur a penalty thereof of 5%, which shall
be added to the amount of taxes due from such company or corporation.
   (E)   In addition to the penalty hereinabove stated, interest at the rate of
10% annum from July 2 of the year in which said taxes are due shall be
collected upon the principal and penalties of any such taxes then remaining
unpaid.
   (F)   This article shall be effective for the tax year beginning January 1,
2000 and for each tax year thereafter. The taxes due hereunder for the 2000 tax
year shall apply to gross receipts received from September 1, 2000 through
December 31, 2000.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2000)
CHAPTER 16: TRAFFIC
Section
   
16-1   Motor Vehicle Code
§ 16-1 MOTOR VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The Motor Vehicle Code, incorporating by reference VA Code Title 18.2,
Chapter 7, Article 2 (§§ 18.2-266 et seq.) and Title 46.2, as amended, by the
Acts of General Assembly, including punishment therefore as a misdemeanor, be,
and the same is hereby adopted by reference. The Motor Vehicle Code is adopted
as the Motor Vehicle Code of county.
   (B)   Specifically, VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2, as amended,
operating a motor vehicle under the influence of intoxicants, or under the
influence of any combination of drugs and authorizing the procedure relating to
blood analyses to determine the content of a subject’s blood is incorporated
and adopted by reference.
   (C)   Words and phrases used and contained in this section shall have the
meaning ascribed to them by VA Code § 46.2-100, except where the context
clearly requires a different meaning.
   (D)   The provisions of this section applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles, regardless of ownership, subject to
such specific exceptions as are set forth in this section, if any.
   (E)   Pursuant to VA Code Title 1, Chapter 2.1 and § 46.2-1313, 1950, as
amended, the provisions contained in VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2
(§§ 18.2-266 et seq.) and Title 46.2, 1950, as amended, including all
procedural, substantive and penalty provisions relating to the operation of
vehicles in this commonwealth are adopted, incorporated in this section by
reference, made a part of this section as fully as if set forth herein, and are
made applicable within the county. The incorporation by reference of these
statutes shall not apply to those provisions, the violation of which
constitutes a felony or those provisions which are expressly inapplicable to
the county.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the county to violate, or
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of VA Code Title 18.2,
Chapter 7, Article 2 (§§ 18.2-266 et seq.) and Title 46.2, 1950, as amended,
which are adopted by this section.
   (G)   This section incorporating by reference statutes of the commonwealth
shall be deemed amended and deemed to include future amendments of the statutes
of the commonwealth as same are amended, from time to time, it being the intent
of the Board of Supervisors that this section include future amendments to the
state statutes incorporated herein. The ordinance shall be numbered by adding a
prefix of LCC to the corresponding commonwealth statue (such, as the ordinance
prohibiting reckless driving general rule, shall be LCC VA Code § 46.2-852).
   (H)   To the extent a portion of this adoption by reference is invalid, the
invalid portion shall be served and the remainder shall be effective.
(Ord. 01-049, passed 9-18-2001)
CHAPTER 17: ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
Section
Article I. In General
   
17-1   Purpose
   
17-2   Enactment and authority
   
17-3   Short title
   
17-4   Territorial jurisdiction
   
17-5   Incorporated areas
   
17-6   Definitions
   
17-7   Conflict with other laws
   
17-8   Severability
   
17-9—17-18   Reserved
Article II. Addressing Map Book
   
17-19   Official road name map book
   
17-20   Maintenance and storage
   
17-21—17-29   Reserved
Article III. Numbering System
   
17-30   Uniformity of the system
   
17-31   Road naming criteria
   
17-32   Numbering method
   
17-33   Dead-end roads
   
17-34   Beginning address number
   
17-35—17-43   Reserved
Article IV. Addressing System
   
17-44   Method of assigning a number
   
17-45   Corner lots
   
17-46   Road name of address
   
17-47   Requirements for road naming and numbering
   
17-48   Duplex and multi-family dwellings
   
17-49   Assigning of unit designators
   
17-50   Mobile homes
   
17-51   Recreational or resort communities
   
17-52   Addressable structures with alley vehicle main access
   
17-53   Address assignment after the initial E-911 road naming and addressing
process
   
17-54—17-62   Reserved
Article V. Posting Requirements for Addressable Structures
   
17-63   Time constraints
   
17-64   Number specifications
   
17-65   Posting locations
   
17-66   Maintenance of addressable structure numbers
   
17-67—17-75   Reserved
Article VI. Road Naming
   
17-76   Approval of private road names
   
17-77   Road naming procedure
   
17-78   Road naming regulations
   
17-79   Road naming suggestions
   
17-80   Road segments
   
17-81   Off-set intersections and split routes
   
17-82   Impasses
   
17-83   Road name change moratorium
   
17-84   Road name change petition
   
17-85   Road name adoption after the initial E-911 road naming process
   
17-86—17-94   Reserved
Article VII. Amendments
   
17-95   General
   
17-96   Public notification requirements
   
17-97   Letter of notification
   
17-98   Protesting a petition or proposal of amendment
   
17-99   Application for amendment
   
17-100—17-108   Reserved
Article VIII. Legal Status Provision
   
17-109   Violations; enforcement; penalties
   
17-110—17-118   Reserved
Article IX.  Violations and Enforcement
   
17-119   Posting requirements violations
   
17-120   Posting addressable structure numbers
   
17-121   Notification of violation
   
17-122   Legal prosecution
ARTICLE I. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
§ 17-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the county addressing and road naming ordinance is to protect
the safety and welfare of the general public through the orderly assignment of
addresses to facilitate the location of individual dwellings and businesses by
emergency response personnel.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-2 ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby established and adopted a detailed, permanent and uniform
addressing system, pursuant to authority of VA Code § 15.2-2019, empowering the
local government to name roads.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-3 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Road Naming and Addressing Ordinance of
Lee County, Virginia” and may be referred to as this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-4 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable for all of the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-5 INCORPORATED AREAS.
   Any incorporated area within the county that is being provided emergency
dispatch services by the county’s Communications/E-911 Center, is requested to
adhere to the road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter,
and which may require the adoption of a compatible ordinance by its governing
board.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-6 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURE. Any structure that is a primary place of living,
working, playing or worshiping.
   ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address,
as assigned by the E-911 Coordinator or his or her designee, in accordance with
the official road name map book of the county.
   ADDRESSING POINT OF ORIGIN. The end of a named road designated for the start
of addressable structure numbers.
   COMMUNICATIONS/E-911 CENTER. The public safety answering point at the county
that is responsible for answering E-911 calls.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot or parcel on which is located, or which is arranged
or equipped for the accommodation of, two or more manufactured homes for
dwelling use with spaces for such available for rent or lease.
   OFFICIAL ROAD NAME MAP BOOK. Map book adopted by the Board of Supervisors
denoting the names of each named road in the county.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The Board of Supervisors or its designee.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a governmental entity or
agency through the use of public funds.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of public funds.
   STREET ADDRESS. An unique identifier for each addressable structure within
the county. The minimum adequate street address shall be defined as the
assigned addressable structure number and the officially adopted road name.
Where required by this chapter, the STREET ADDRESS shall also include the
assigned unit designator.
   UNIT DESIGNATOR. The portion of the street address used to distinguish
individual units within the same addressable structure.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-7 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   All other ordinances or parts of ordinance not specifically in
conflict herewith are hereby continued in force and effect, but all such
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are higher or more restrictive
than those imposed by any other applicable law or regulation, such higher or
more restrictive provisions shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-8 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or provision of
this chapter be declared unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the ordinance in
its entirety or of any part thereof other than that so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-9—17-18 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. ADDRESSING MAP BOOK
§ 17-19 OFFICIAL ROAD NAME MAP BOOK.
   (A)   The road name map book shall be entitled “Official Road Name Map Book,
Lee County, Virginia.”
   (B)   The effective date of said map book shall be entered here upon
approval of the map book by the Board of Supervisors upon completion of the
road naming process. Said map book shall hereby be adopted as the official road
name map book of the county.
   (C)   All county addresses assigned shall be assigned in accordance with
this map book.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-20 MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE.
   The official road name map book shall be kept on file with the County E-911
Coordinator. This map book shall be maintained and updated digitally with a
master hard copy in print at all times.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-21—17-29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 17-30 UNIFORMITY OF THE SYSTEM.
   A main road point of origin linear addressing scheme utilizing U.S. Highway
58 will be used. Addresses on U.S. Highway 58 will begin where U.S. Highway 58
enters the county in the west, starting with an address of 100. Addresses will
generally flow away from U.S. Highway 58. All roads that are officially
designated on the addressing map book, whether public or private, shall be
numbered uniformly and consecutively along the roadway centerline. Numbers
shall be assigned along the entirety of all named roads.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-31 ROAD NAMING CRITERIA.
   (A)   All public roads shall be named, have road name signs installed and
all addressable structures shall be numbered.
   (B)   Private roads shall be named, have road name signs installed and all
addressable structures shall be numbered, if:
      (1)   Three or more addressable structures exist on the private road; or
      (2)   The private road is longer than 1,000 feet and has at least one
addressable structure along the road.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-32 NUMBERING METHOD.
   (A)   A set of numbers consisting of a three-, four- or five-digit natural
number, called an addressable structure number, shall be assigned at the rate
of 1,000 addresses per mile; resulting in an address pair every 10.56 feet; 500
addresses per side of road, per mile.
   (B)   Odd addressable structure numbers shall be assigned to the left side
of the road moving away from the addressing point of origin on the said road.
Even addressable structure numbers shall be assigned to the right side of the
road moving away from the addressing point of origin on the said road.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-33 DEAD-END ROADS.
   (A)   Address numbers on all dead-end roads shall begin with the point of
address number origin at the intersecting road and increase towards the dead-
end.
   (B)   Address numbers on cul-de-sacs shall begin with the point of address
number origin at the intersecting road and increase towards the cul-de-sac
circle. When entering the cu-de-sac circle, addresses will continue to increase
counterclockwise, bearing to the right, around the cul-de-sac circle.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-34 BEGINNING ADDRESS NUMBER.
   Each road’s point of origin shall begin with the number 100.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-35—17-43 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 17-44 METHOD OF ASSIGNING A NUMBER.
   (A)   An even and an odd number will be available for addressing for every
10.56 feet of road frontage throughout the county. There will be 1,000 possible
addresses per mile; 500 per side of road.
   (B)   The address number will be assigned where the addressable structure’s
driveway intersects the road from which the addressable structure will be
addressed.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-45 CORNER LOTS.
   Addressable structures on corner lots shall be assigned an addressable
structure number where the addressable structure’s driveway intersects a road.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-46 ROAD NAME OF ADDRESS.
   The road name of an address shall be the name of the road from which the
addressable structure is numbered.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-47 REQUIREMENTS OF ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING.
   If development of a private road or addressable structures along the private
road meets or exceeds the minimum addressable structure or length regulations
(as outlined in §
17-31), said road shall be named and numbered, and addressable structures
readdressed according to the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-48 DUPLEX AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   One addressable structure number shall be assigned to each addressable
structure whose units share a common roof. Each unit within the addressable
structure shall be assigned a unit designator. Allowed unit designators include
apartment numbers for apartments and numbers for commercial buildings. The unit
designator shall be a number and shall not include alphabetic characters,
except as stated in §
17-49.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-49 ASSIGNING OF UNIT DESIGNATORS.
   Residential unit designators shall be as follows: ground level floor numbers
- #101, #102, #103 and the like, second floor numbers - #201, #202, #203 and
the like. All floor levels are to follow this scheme. Underground floor
designators shall follow the same scheme with the exception of having a “U” for
a prefix, for example #U101, #U102 and the like. This section specifically
applies to multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-50 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Mobile homes shall be assigned individual street addresses if not
located within a mobile home development.
   (B)   A mobile home development will receive a single address. Manufactured
housing or mobile homes within mobile home developments will receive lot
numbers. Mobile homes within a mobile home development will have an address
such as: 1345 Spring Road, Lot 1.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-51 RECREATIONAL OR RESORT COMMUNITIES.
   Resort communities or recreational developments that have established
dwelling sites with electrical power hook-ups, or municipal sewage hook-ups, or
phone hook-ups shall be assigned individual street addresses.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-52 ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURES WITH ALLEY VEHICLE MAIN ACCESS.
   Addressable structures with vehicle access from an alley will be addressed
from the road the addressable structure faces. The digital map database of
structures will contain attribute data denoting a vehicle entrance other than
the road from which the structure is addressed.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-53 ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT AFTER THE INITIAL E-911 ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
PROCESS.
   Future addresses shall be assigned by utilizing the following procedure:
   (A)   A resident receives a building permit;
   (B)   The Building Inspector gives the E-911 Coordinator a copy of the
building permit;
   (C)   The E-911 Coordinator assigns an address appropriately; and
   (D)   The E-911 Coordinator informs the resident of their new address in
writing and provides notification to other county departments as needed.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-54—17-62 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURES
§ 17-63 TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   Within 90 days after written notification of the assignment of or change of
an addressable structure number, the owner of said addressable structure shall
post the assigned addressable structure number in compliance with the
requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-64 NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS.
   All addressable structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable
material. The color shall contrast with the color scheme of the addressable
structure, and if mounted on glass, shall contrast with the background and be
clearly visible. The minimum number size for residential addressable structures
or units shall be four inches in height. The minimum size for all other
addressable structure numbers shall be six inches in height. In all cases, a
number larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does
not provide adequate identification.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-65 POSTING LOCATIONS.
   All numerical identifications must be easily identifiable without
obstruction of view. Any dwelling or business located more than 100 feet from
the roadway and/or not clearly visible from the roadway shall be required to
have numerical posting at both the entrance or driveway and located in close
proximity to the front door or entranceway. A minimum of five feet in posting
height will be required for all dwelling or business identification in close
proximity to the driveway entrance. The post height of three feet will be
required for all entrances that require numerical posting. A mailbox is
acceptable if it is located at the entranceway to the property.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-66 MAINTENANCE OF ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the owner
shall maintain the addressable structure number at all times in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter. Addressable structure numbers and unit
designators, as viewed from the road, shall not be obstructed from view.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-67—17-75 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. ROAD NAMING
§ 17-76 APPROVAL OF ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall have authority to approve public and
private roads requiring road names.
   (B)   Road names will be approved when the initial road naming process is
complete and an official road name map is presented to and adopted by the
Board.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-77 INITIAL ROAD NAMING PROCEDURE.
   Roads will be named by utilizing the following procedure:
   (A)   Road naming meetings will be advertised and open to the public;
   (B)   Public road naming meetings will be held at familiar and local
locations. No more than one meeting will be held per voting precinct (some
precinct meetings may be combined);
   (C)   After each road naming meeting, citizens that did not attend the
meeting within that (those) precinct(s) will have an additional ten days to
submit their road name suggestions in writing or in person at the County
Administrator’s Office. After the ten-day deadline, citizens may no longer
submit road name suggestions;
   (D)   Up to three road name suggestions per person, per eligible road are
permissible;
   (E)   Road name suggestions will be evaluated and chosen for each road by
the Board of Supervisors. Roads that did not receive a public road name
suggestion will be named to the best ability of the Board of Supervisors;
   (F)   Road name maps depicting the new road names will be on display for 15
days after completion of all road naming meetings and assignment of all
proposed road names at the following locations:
      (1)   County courthouse;
      (2)   County public library (Pennington Gap); and
      (3)   Rose Hill Community Library.
   (G)   A public hearing will be advertised and held for the approval of the
new road names.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-78 ROAD NAMING REGULATIONS.
   The following road name regulations must be followed when naming roads:
   (A)   Existing, documented road names, if not duplicated elsewhere in the
county, take precedence in every scenario. The Board of Supervisors may suggest
an existing (pre-E-911 addressing and mapping project) road name change if the
current road name does not conform to this chapter;
   (B)   Names must be pleasant sounding, easy to read, non-offensive and add
prestige to the community;
   (C)   Duplicate and/or sound-alike road names are prohibited;
   (D)   The county will assign a road name suffix at their discretion;
residents may not suggest a road name suffix. The following are suffix
definitions.
      (1)   Public county roads (not incorporated):
         (a)   HWY: any federal or state highway;
         (b)   RD: any secondary road;
         (c)   LP: any secondary road that begins and ends on the same road;
and
         (d)   PKWY: special scenic route or park drive.
      (2)   All private, non-incorporated roads: TRL or DR - all named, private
roads.
      (3)   Suggested public incorporated roads: the following are suffix
suggestions for all incorporated roads. The incorporated entity has the
authority to adopt the road name and suffix of their choosing. The county
recommends the incorporated entity use the following guidelines as a mechanism
for standardizing road suffixes throughout the county within incorporated
entities:
         (a)   ST: road that generally, but not always, runs in a north/south
direction;
         (b)   AVE: road that generally, but not always, runs in an east/west
direction;
         (c)   CIR: road that begins and ends on the same road;
         (d)   PL: cul-de-sac or permanent dead-end road; and
         (e)   LN: all name, private roads.
   (E)   Pre- and post- directionals are prohibited. Existing directionals
within incorporated entities may be necessary to prevent duplicate addresses.
Example:
      105 N MAIN ST and 105 S MAIN ST.
   (F)   Numeric digits and spelled-out numbers in conjunction with non-numeric
words are prohibited, except when used with a designator such as st, nd rd, th.
Example:
      TWO HORSE RD is prohibited.
      2ND ST is permissible.
   (G)   Road names may not be more than 20 letters in length. Spaces in multi-
word road names qualify as a letter of length. This excludes the suffix that
will be assigned by the county.
   (H)   Proper, personal names are not permitted, with the exception that
historical or other notable individuals may be honored in naming of a public
road. Non-conforming proper, personal names adopted in the initial road naming
phase shall be allowed to continue (grandfathered). Names of rivers, mountains
and the like are permissible if the name of the river, mountain and the like
has been otherwise officially adopted. Example:
      (1)   POWELL MOUNTAIN RD is permissible;
      (2)   JIM JONES RD is not permissible;
      (3)   JONES RD is not permissible;
      (4)   JIM RD is not permissible; and
      (5)   DANIEL BOONE RD is permissible.
   (I)   Where duplicate road names exist or arise during the road naming
process, the road name shall be given to the road that affects the most number
of addressable structures.
   (J)   Any character besides a letter of the English alphabet or space is
prohibited in a road name (such as, ampersand, hyphen and period).
   (K)   Road names that could possibly also be suffixes or directionals are
prohibited. Example:
      (1)   BENDY ROAD TRL is prohibited; and
      (2)   NORTH RUN RD is prohibited.
   (L)   Fractions are prohibited. Example: 5-1/2 AVE is prohibited.
   (M)   The word “and” is prohibited. Example: LOG AND COAL RD is prohibited.
   (N) A road name suggestion may only be offered by a resident that owns a
parcel adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which has legal access from, the road
for which the suggestion is being made.
   (O)   U.S. and state highways naming procedure:
      (1)   U.S. and state highways will be named;
      (2)   Any U.S. or state highway will have the same name throughout the
entirety of the said U.S. or state highway; and
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors will be responsible for assigning a name
to each U.S. and state highway in the county.
   (P)   (1)   Words in any street name must be spelled out; no abbreviations
are allowed, except for the road name suffix which will be assigned by the
county.
      (2)   Example: BRANCH MTN RD is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-79 ROAD NAMING SUGGESTIONS.
   The following road name suggestions should be considered when naming roads:
   (A)   Commonly recognized road names that are not documented, but well
known, should be considered;
   (B)   Historical or geographic characteristics should be considered; and
   (C)   If an area does not have a common name or theme, attempt to identify a
theme for several roads (such as, birds, trees and the like).
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-80 ROAD SEGMENTS.
   Each road shall bear the same name and uniform numbering along the entirety
of the road. Segments of roads shall not be allowed to have different or
separate names.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-81 OFF-SET INTERSECTIONS AND SPLIT ROUTES.
   Split routes, also known as dog-leg of off-set intersections, shall be
treated as separate roads with different names and numbering to preserve the
integrity and continuity of the number system.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-82 IMPASSES.
   Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be assigned
different names and numbering to each portion of the road on either side of the
impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-83 ROAD NAME CHANGE MORATORIUM.
   For the period of time between road name adoption by the Board of
Supervisors and two years after the first, a live enhanced 911 call is received
by the county’s Communications/E-911 Center, no road names adopted during the
road naming process described herein may change by means of public petition.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-84 ROAD NAME CHANGE PETITION.
   After a period of two years after the first, live enhanced 911 call is
received by the county public safety answering point, a citizen or group of
citizens must meet the following criteria and may use the following road name
change petition procedure to petition a road name.
   (A)   A road name change petition may only be offered by a resident that
owns a parcel adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which has legal access from,
the road for which the petition is being made.
   (B)   Roads with less than ten parcels must have a complete parcel owner
consensus in favor of what the proposed road name will be.
   (C)   Roads with ten or more parcels must have at least three-fourths parcel
owner majority in favor of what the proposed road name will be.
   (D)   The petition must contain the names and signatures of all parcel
owners on roads with less than ten parcels or three-fourths of the parcel
owners on roads with ten or more parcels.
   (E)   The petition must be accompanied by a $100 petition submission fee.
   (F)   The petition must include the current road name, up to three proposed
road names, and why the petitioner(s) feels the road name should be changed.
   (G)   The petition will be open for public discussion at a public hearing. A
decision will be made by the Board of Supervisors whether or not to change the
road name.
   (H)   If approval is denied, the Board of Supervisors, or its designee,
shall provide a written statement of the reason(s) for non-approval.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-85 ROAD NAME ADOPTION AFTER THE INITIAL E-911 ROAD NAMING PROCESS.
   (A)   Future roads shall be named when they are:
      (1)   Public;
      (2)   Private and longer than 1,000 feet with one addressable structure
along the road; or
      (3)   Private with three or more addressable structures along the private
road.
   (B)   Any future road shall be named by the following procedure when:
      (1)   (a)   A private road is created or extended to more than 1,000 feet
in length on which only one addressable structure exists;
         (b)   New road naming guidelines:
            1.   The owner of the addressable structure may, within ten
business days after notification by the E-911 Coordinator, submit up to three
road name suggestions to the E-911 Coordinator by mail or in person. The
person’s name should be printed legibly on the suggestion. Failure to provide
suggestions within the time allowed shall authorize the E-911 Coordinator to
assign a random, pleasant sounding, easy to read, non-offensive name to the
road;
            2.   Road name suggestions must comply with this chapter;
            3.   The E-911 Coordinator will assign the road name suffix; and
            4.   No public hearing is necessary; the road name becomes
official.
      (2)   An event has occurred to an existing private unnamed road or public
road that requires readdressing residents.
         (a)   Examples:
            1.   Addition of addressable structures on private road less than
1,000 feet in length so that three or more addressable structures result on the
private road; and
            2.   A public road is re-routed, extended and the like.
         (b)   New road naming guidelines:
            1.   When the new road qualifies for a name, each parcel owner
adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which has legal access from, the new road
may, within ten business days after notification by the E-911 Coordinator,
submit up to three road name suggestions to the E-911 Coordinator by mail or in
person. The persons name should be printed legibly on the suggestion. Failure
to provide suggestions within the time allowed shall authorize the E-911
Coordinator to assign a random, pleasant sounding, easy to read, non-offensive
name to the road;
            2.   Road name suggestions must comply with this chapter;
            3.   The E-911 Coordinator will assign the road name suffix;
            4.   The E-911 Coordinator will select the name deemed most
acceptable from the submitted suggestions;
            5.   The E-911 Coordinator will submit the road name suggestion to
the Board of Supervisors with a letter confirming that the new road name is in
compliance with this chapter;
            6.   The road name becomes official when adopted by the Board of
Supervisors after a duly held public hearing; and
            7.   If each parcel owner adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which
has legal access from, the new road sign, a statement in agreement with the
road name selected by the E-911 Coordinator, subsections (B)(2)(b)5. and (B)(2)
(b)6. above may be omitted and the road name becomes official.
      (3)   (a)   A private auction or land sale will occur which may result in
the split of existing parcels and new roads.
         (b)   New road naming guidelines:
            1.   If a new road is built, it must first either be public,
private more than 1,000 feet in length, or private with three or more
addressable structures’ parcels adjacent to the new road before the new road
qualifies for a name;
            2.   Road names that were never officially previously adopted are
void and subject to change by the county as prescribed in this chapter;
            3.   When the new road qualifies for a name, each parcel owner
adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which has legal access from, the new road
may, within ten business days after notification by the E-911 Coordinator,
submit up to three road name suggestions to the E-911 Coordinator by mail or in
person. The person’s name should be printed legibly on the suggestion. Failure
to provide suggestions within the time allowed shall authorize the E-911
Coordinator to assign a random, pleasant sounding, easy to read, non-offensive
name to the road;
            4.   Road name suggestions must comply with this chapter;
            5.   The E-911 Coordinator will assign the road name suffix;
            6.   The E-911 Coordinator will chose the name deemed most
acceptable from the submitted suggestions;
            7.   The E-911 Coordinator will submit the road name suggestion to
the Board of Supervisors with a letter confirming that the new road name is in
compliance with this chapter;
            8.   The road name becomes official when adopted by the Board of
Supervisors after a duly held public hearing; and
            9.   If each parcel owner adjacent to, or who owns a parcel which
has legal access from, the new road sign a statement in agreement with the road
name selected by the E-911 Coordinator, subsections (B)(3)(b)5. and (B)(3)(b)6.
may be omitted and the road name becomes official.
      (4)   (a)   An official developer’s platted subdivision is being
approved.
         (b)   New road naming procedure:
            1.   Road names considered for adoption must meet the road naming
requirements in this chapter;
            2.   The proposed road names must be approved for compliance with
this chapter by the E-911 Coordinator;
            3.   The E-911 Coordinator will assign the road name suffix;
            4.   A signed letter of compliance of all road names by the E-911
Coordinator must be submitted to the Community Development Director before the
Planning Commission approves the official developer’s platted subdivision
proposal; and
            5.   Road names become official when the platted subdivision map is
approved by the Board of Supervisors after a duly held public hearing.
      (5)   (a)   A new public road is being built on which no addressable
structures exist.
         (b)   New road naming guidelines:
            1.   The Board of Supervisors will assign the name of any new
public road;
            2.   The proposed road name must be approved for compliance with
this chapter by the E-911 Coordinator;
            3.   The E-911 Coordinator will assign the road name suffix;
            4.   A signed letter of compliance of all road names will be
submitted to the Board of Supervisors; and
            5.   The road name(s) become official when adopted by the Board of
Supervisors after a duly held public hearing.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-86—17-94 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. AMENDMENTS
§ 17-95 GENERAL.
   The Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition, after public notice and a hearing as provided by this chapter, amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal the addressing regulations and
assignments.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-96 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Board of Supervisors shall
conduct a public hearing on the proposal. A notice of the public hearing shall
be advertised once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the
first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the appointed
date of the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-97 LETTER OF NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Whenever there is a proposal for a change in the addressing system
involving any portion of an address, the land owner of that parcel’s address as
shown on the county tax listing and the land owners of all the parcels abutting
that parcel as shown on the county tax listing, shall be mailed a notice of the
proposed change in the addressing system.
   (B)   The notice shall be mailed by first class mail to the last address
listed of the land owners according to the county tax abstracts.
   (C)   The person or persons responsible for mailing such notices shall
provide written notification to the Board of Supervisors attesting to the
fulfillment of this task.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-98 PROTESTING A PETITION OR PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT.
   No protest against any change in, or amendment to, the road naming and
addressing ordinance, regulations, proposals or the addressing system, shall be
valid or effective unless it is in the form of a written petition. The petition
shall bear the names and signatures of the opposing property owners and shall
affirm and state the nature of protest to the proposal.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-99 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   Applications for an amendment to this chapter shall be filed with the E-911
Coordinator. The E-911 Coordinator shall be responsible for presenting the
application to the County Board of Supervisors. Each application shall be
signed, be in a duplicated form and shall contain the following:
   (A)   The applicant’s name and address in full;
   (B)   In the case of a text amendment, it shall set forth the new text to be
added and the existing text to be deleted and any other text changes that will
have to be made as a result of the effect on the remaining articles, sections,
definitions, diagrams or attachments; and
   (C)   (1)   If the proposed amendment will change the addressing map book, a
copy of the addressing map book page shall be marked to indicate the impact of
the proposed amendment to the existing map book page and shall be presented
with application for amendment.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held by the Board of Supervisors before
the adoption of any proposed amendments to this chapter. When the Board of
Supervisors shall have denied any application for the change of a portion or
matter of this chapter, it shall not thereafter accept any other application of
the same change involving that portion or matter of the ordinance until the
expiration of 12 months from the date of such previous denial.
      (3)   Before any action shall be taken on an amendment request, the party
or parties proposing or recommending said amendment shall deposit the required
fee of $50 with the E-911 Coordinator at the time the petition is filed to
cover publication and other miscellaneous cost of said change.
      (4)   Under no condition shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded
for failure of said amendment to be adopted. However, in the event an
application is withdrawn prior to the time it is ordered advertised for hearing
by the E-911 Coordinator, three-fourths of the fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-100—17-108 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. LEGAL STATUS PROVISION
§ 17-109 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The following actions are unlawful.
      (1)   Intentional road name, road name sign, address or address display
sign defamation.
         (a)   For any person to use or display a different address or portion
thereof, except as provided by this chapter;
         (b)   For any person to name or designate the name of any private
road, street, drive, cartway, easement, right-of-way, access area or any other
thoroughfare, except as provided by this chapter;
         (c)   For any person to establish or erect any road sign that is the
same color as the road name sign design(s) adopted by the county; and
         (d)   For any person to intentionally destroy, mar, deface or steal
any county road name sign.
      (2)   Concealment or confusion.
         (a)   To cover or conceal or to permit the sight obstruction of the
structure numbers required to be displayed by this chapter;
         (b)   To post other numbers that would be confusing. All old numbers
on structures shall be removed when the county has assigned a new structure
number; and
         (c)   To provide a structure address to any telephone company, utility
company or government office that has not been identified and approved by
County E-911 as being a valid address in an attempt to obtain telecommunication
or electrical services. Telephone companies serving the county shall verify
with county E-911 the address for any customers attempting to secure
residential or commercial telecommunication services prior to supplying such
service.
   (B)   Any other violations of a requirement of this chapter.
      (1)   Whenever the County Administrator, or his or her duly authorized
agent, has reason to believe there has been or there exists a violation of this
chapter, he or she shall give written notice of such violation to the person
failing to comply, and order said person to take corrective measures within 14
calendar days from the date of the notification. If such person fails to comply
with the duly issued order, the County Administrator, or his or his agent,
shall initiate necessary actions to terminate the violation through criminal
enforcement including but not limited to injunctive relief.
      (2)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a Class 4
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $250. Subsequent to the 14-
calendar day period following notification of violation, each day of violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other
such lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
      (4)   When enforcing the Uniform Statewide Building Code (USBC), being VA
Code Title 36, Chapter 6, the Building Official and any assistant, has the
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   All law enforcement officers in the commonwealth with the authority
to issue state uniform summons shall have authority to enforce this chapter.
      (6)   All fines and penalties levied in violation of this chapter shall
be paid over to the County Treasurer from the General District Court or Circuit
Court, as applicable, and deposited in the county general fund, as provided by
law.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§§ 17-110—17-118 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 17-119 POSTING REQUIREMENTS VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to comply with the posting requirements of §§
17-63 through 17-75 constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-120 POSTING ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following procedure:
   (A)   Initial notification of violation, in writing by first class mail, to
last known address of the person to be notified;
   (B)   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation may be issued;
   (C)   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning citation,
a second citation including a fine of $25 may be issued; and
   (D)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-121 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Notification of violation shall:
   (A)   Be issued by the Board of Supervisors or its designee;
   (B)   Be in writing, first class mail directed to the name and address of
the owner of the addressable structure; and
   (C)   Must set forth the action necessary for the offender to be in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 17-122 LEGAL PROSECUTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other such
lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 18: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
18-1   Purpose
   
18-2   Declaration of emergency
   
18-3—18-11   Reserved
Article II. Contingency Plans
   
18-12   Advisory level
   
18-13   Contingency Plan No. 1 - mandatory
   
18-14   Contingency Plan No. 2 - severe
   
18-15   Contingency Plan No. 3 - emergency
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 18-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide planned contingency methods of
limiting the use of water during water shortage situations and to provide the
County Public Service Authority and its water users with notification of the
plan well in advance, so that PSA customers may have opportunity to make their
own contingency plan, and to provide, by ordinance, a means of enforcement of
such actions thereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
§ 18-2 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of the County Public Service Authority and the PSA
Engineer will consult with the chairperson of the PSA to determine if a special
called meeting should be called according the by-laws of the PSA, to declare a
water emergency. Upon declaration of a water emergency condition, one of the
categories of contingency plans outlined below will be put in effect. The plan
put in effect will be determined by the seriousness of the emergency condition
declared.
      (2)   The declaration may be within only certain systems operated by the
PSA or within all systems operated by the PSA, as determined by the need. A
water emergency is deemed imminent when the total raw water source for the
system or systems reaches a 60-day supply. In the case where water is provided
to the PSA system or systems by another water purveyor, an emergency shall be
deemed imminent when such water purveyor declares an emergency within their
system.
   (B)   The number of days of supply remaining in the water system or systems
shall be determined by the Director and Engineer, who shall gather all
pertinent facts and report their findings to the PSA Board of Directors.
   (C)   The Director will make notification of the emergency through the media
(radio, television and newspapers) and such other means as are reasonably
calculated to make the public aware of the condition.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
§§ 18-3—18-11 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. CONTINGENCY PLANS
§ 18-12 ADVISORY LEVEL.
   Upon the determination that a limited water supply is available, the Public
Service Authority, or, when authorized by said body, the Director thereof, may
disseminate information throughout the waterworks system service area advising
that the water supply has been depressed and requesting customers to
voluntarily reduce water demand through the following actions:
   (A)   Reduce or eliminate the use of city water to wash down sidewalks,
walkways, driveways, parking lots, service station aprons, tennis courts, other
hard surfaced areas, buildings, and structures, except as required for safety
concerns;
   (B)   Reduce the use of PSA water to wash automobiles, trucks, trailers and
any other type of mobile equipment, except in facilities operating with an
alternate water source or with a water recycling system; and
   (C)   Reduce the use of PSA water for watering of shrubbery, trees, lawns,
grass, plants and other vegetation, except when using an alternate water
source, recycled water or a watering container not exceeding three gallons in
capacity. Any such watering should be limited to the hours between 8:00 p.m.
and 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
§ 18-13 CONTINGENCY PLAN NO. 1 - MANDATORY.
   (A)   Upon declaration of the emergency, all car washing, street washing,
watering of lawns, gardens and the like, building or window washing, and
swimming pool operation will be ceased immediately.
   (B)   All commercial, industrial, manufacturing or processing facilities
shall immediately reduce water consumption to 80% of the average monthly water
usage as determined by the previous two billings showing on the PSA water
books. A written plan of operation showing the curtailment shall be immediately
submitted by the facility to the Director upon receipt of notice to do so.
   (C)   Upon declaration of the emergency, a surcharge will be placed on all
water consumption at a rate of $5 per 1,000 gallons above the 2,000 gallons per
month minimum, immediately after the declaration of the emergency. However, the
minimum billing amount of 2,000 gallons of water shall be exempt from said
surcharge. The Director will see that all meters are read as soon as possible
after declaration of emergency and after the emergency is over to provide water
consumption figures for use in billing. Further, at the end of said emergency,
the Director shall see that meters are read in the same order in which they
were read at the beginning of said emergency.
   (D)   Violations of the provisions in Contingency Plan No. 1 shall be a
Class 4 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
§ 18-14 CONTINGENCY PLAN NO. 2 - SEVERE.
   When the amount of the raw water source reaches a 30 days’ supply, or in the
case where water is provided to the PSA system or systems by another water
purveyor, such water purveyor declares a Contingency Plan No. 2 emergency
within their system, the following additional limitations are imposed, and each
affected person/business will be notified by certified mail by the Director.
   (A)   Bottling plants, industrial and manufacturing or processing
facilities. Production using PSA supplied water will be strictly limited to 50%
of average monthly water usage as determined by the previous two billings
showing on the PSA water books. A written plan of operation showing operation
schedules necessary to reach this curtailment will be submitted to the Director
upon receipt of notice to do so.
   (B)   Food outlets and restaurants. Hours of operation limited to eight
hours/day and maximum of 40 hours/week. Plan of operating hours will be filed
with the Director.
   (C)   Schools, hospitals and nursing homes. Required to use all disposable
paper goods possible in preparation and serving of all meals. Notice to the
Director is required as pertains to the plan of action taken.
   (D)   Beauty shops, barber shops, health spas, laundries and pet shops.
Hours of operation limited to 32 hours/week maximum. Plan of operating hours
will be filed with the Director to allow checks on operation.
   (E)   Violations.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the notification, the plan of action described
above must be filed within 48 hours. Violation of plan filing deadline will be
closed immediately until plan is submitted.
      (2)   Violation of the provisions in Contingency Plan No. 2 shall be a
Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
§ 18-15 CONTINGENCY PLAN NO. 3 - EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When the amount of raw water source water reaches a 15 days’ supply,
or in the case where water is provided to the PSA system or systems by another
water purveyor, such water purveyor declares a Contingency Plan No. 3 emergency
within their system, the following additional limitations are imposed.
      (1)   Bottling plants, industrial and manufacturing or processing
facilities. Production using town water prohibited.
      (2)   Food outlets and restaurants. Hours of operation limited to four
hours/day and maximum of 20 hours/week. Plan of operating hours will be filed
with the Director to allow checks on operation.
      (3)   Beauty shops, barber shops, health spas, laundries and pet shops.
Hours of operation limited to 16 hours/week maximum. Plan of operating hours
will be filed with the Director to allow checks on operation.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions in Contingency Plan No. 3 shall be a Class
3 misdemeanor.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, water service may be suspended to any
person who continues to violate the provisions of such a declaration or any
other regulations promulgated hereunder during a water supply emergency. If
such water service is suspended by operation of this chapter, the person shall
pay a reconnection fee and all outstanding charges before service is restored.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
APPENDIX A: ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
1-1   Adopted by reference
§ 1-1 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s zoning ordinance is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full. A copy of the zoning ordinance can be found in the office of the Board
of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2014)
APPENDIX B: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
Section
   
1-1   Adopted by reference
§ 1-1 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s subdivision ordinance is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full. A copy of the subdivision ordinance can be found in the office of
the Board of Supervisors.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO VIRGINIA CODE
VA Code Section Code Section
VA Code Section                             Code Section
Subtitle I, Chapter 1                       11-1
Title 1, Chapter 2.1                        1-2,
                                            16-1
1-217                                       1-3
Title 2.2                                   2-1
2.2-4302.2                                  12-7
2.2-4345                                    12-12,
                                            12-23
Title 2.2, Chapter 4, Article 6             12-24
                                            Ch. 12,
Title 2.2, Chapter 43, Articles 1 through 6 12-4,
                                            12-6
3.2-2600                                    3-1
3.2-6500                                    3-33,
                                            3-50
                                            3-1,
3.2-6503                                    3-21,
                                            3-24
3.2-6504                                    3-33
3.2-6534(1) and (2)                         3-11
3.2-6540                                    3-40
3.2-6540.1                                  3-40
                                            3-3,
3.2-6546                                    3-23,
                                            3-31
3.2-6546(D)                                 3-33
3.2-6552                                    3-40
3.2-6555                                    3-1
3.2-6556                                    3-21
3.2-6558                                    3-1
3.2-6562                                    3-21,
                                            3-22
3.2-6570                                    3-33
3.2-6570(A)(iii) or (B)(ii)                 3-33
3.2-6571                                    3-33
3.2-6574(B)                                 3-42
3.2-6574(B)(2)                              3-1
3.2-6585                                    3-51
Title 3.2, Chapter 65                       Ch. 3
Title 4.1, Chapter 1                        11-1
4.1-100                                     15-233
Title 5.1                                   4-1,
                                            4-3
5.1-1 et seq.                               Ch. 4
5.1-31                                      4-1
5.1-31 et seq.                              4-16
9.1-101                                     3-30
Title 9.1, Chapter 2                        2-56
10.1-600 et seq.                            Ch. 8
10.1-604 et seq.                            7-2
10.1-1100 et seq.                           7-2
10.1-1163(B)                                7-2
10.1-1400 through 10.1-1457                 14-11
10.1-1408.1                                 14-38
10.1-1408.1 et seq.                         Ch. 14
10.1-1414 et seq.                           Ch. 14
10.1-1418.1                                 14-59
10.1-1424                                   14-66
Title 10.1, Chapter 14, Article 1 through 8 14-13
Title 10.1, Chapter 14, Article 2           Ch. 14
11-35 et seq.                               12-4
Title 12.1, Chapter 3                       1-11
15.1-11.02                                  Ch. 14
15.1-292                                    Ch. 13
15.1-317 et seq.                            Ch. 13
Title 15.1, Chapter 9, Article 1            1-10
15.2-901                                    14-59
15.2-906                                    5-2
15.2-926                                    11-2
15.2-926.1                                  3-56
15.2-1211                                   6-11
15.2-2019                                   17-2
15.2-2280                                   8-1
15.2-2510                                   15-222
15.2-4900 et seq.                           2-24
Title 15.2, Subtitle 2                      1-7,
                                            1-8
Title 15.2, Chapter 9, Article II           14-32
Title 15.2, Chapter 11                      14-85
Title 15.2, Chapter 13                      2-37
Title 15.2, Chapter 15                      2-1,
                                            2-39
Title 15.2, Chapter 16                      2-1
Title 15.2, Chapter 21, Article 3           2-12
Title 15.2, Chapter 64                      2-71
15.2-6406                                   2-71
Title 15.2, Subtitle II                     Ch. 13,
                                            Ch. 15
16.1-69.48:1                                3-12
17.1-275.7                                  3-12
18.2-9                                      1-10
18.2-11                                     1-10
18.2-266 et seq.                            16-1
Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2            16-1
                                            3-21,
19.2-260 et seq.                            3-22,
                                            3-33
Title 24.2                                  Ch. 6
24.2-304.1 through 24.2-310.1               6-11
24.2-712                                    6-35
Title 29.1                                  3-40
32.1-45.2                                   15-196
32.1-163 et seq.                            Ch. 13
Title 33.2, Chapter 8                       14-63
35.1-1                                      15-233
36-97 et seq.                               5-13
36-105                                      5-14,
                                            5-15
36-106                                      5-12
                                            8-39,
Title 36, Chapter 6                         8-66,
                                            17-109
40.1-100                                    2-57
40.1-103                                    2-57
42.1-33 et seq.                             Ch. 9
Title 45.2                                  7-2
Title 46.2                                  16-1
46.2-100                                    10-12,
                                            16-1
46.2-739                                    10-20
46.2-752(A)                                 10-18
46.2-752(C)                                 10-22
46.2-752(E)                                 10-26
46.2-752(G)                                 10-23
46.2-852                                    16-1
46.2-1313                                   16-1
51.5-40.1                                   3-6
51.5-60                                     3-53
51.5-111                                    3-53
Title 52, Subtitle II                       2-40
54.1-400 et seq.                            7-2
54.1-2200                                   7-2
Title 55.1, Chapter 28                      3-27
56-265.1 et seq.                            15-217
56-594                                      15-195,
                                            15-207
58.1-1 et seq.                              Ch. 15
58.1-15                                     15-86
Title 58.1, Chapter 35.1                    15-5,
                                            15-5.1
58.1-210                                    15-84
58.1-600 et seq.                            15-49,
                                            15-233
58.1-603                                    15-49
58.1-604                                    15-49
58.1-605                                    15-49 -
                                            15-51
58.1-609                                    15-52
58.1-609.3(18)                              15-10
58.1-622                                    15-50
58.1-628                                    15-50,
                                            15-51
58.1-814                                    15-127
58.1-1200 through 58.1-1217                 15-85
58.1-1201                                   15-83
58.1-1204                                   15-84
58.1-1205                                   15-83
58.1-1207                                   15-85
58.1-1211                                   15-84,
                                            15-85
58.1-1216                                   15-86
58.1-1718                                   15-115
58.1-1821                                   15-179
58.1-1822                                   15-179
Title 58.1, Chapter 26, Article 2           15-243
58.1-2626                                   15-207
58.1-2660                                   15-207
58.1, Chapter 29                            15-196
58.1-2901                                   15-207
58.1-2902                                   15-207
58.1-2905                                   15-207
58.1-3000 et seq.                           Ch. 15
58.1-3210                                   Ch. 15,
                                            15-21
58.1-3212                                   15-18
58.1-3213(A),(D)                            15-19
58.1-3213(E)                                15-19
58.1-3213(F)                                15-17
58.1-3215                                   15-23
58.1-3217                                   15-15,
                                            15-19
58.1-3414(F),(G)                            15-196
58.1-3500 et seq.                           15-7
58.1-3505                                   15-4
58.1-3523                                   15-5
Title 58.1, Chapter 37                      15-139,
                                            15-152
58.1-3700 et seq.                           Ch. 10
58.1-3703                                   15-37
                                            Ch. 15,
58.1-3703.1                                 15-139,
                                            15-152,
                                            15-184
                                            15-140,
58.1-3712                                   15-152,
                                            15-155
                                            15-140,
                                            15-152,
58.1-3713                                   15-153,
                                            15-155,
                                            15-173,
                                            15-174
58.1-3713.3                                 15-140,
                                            15-152 
                                            15-140,
58.1-3713.4                                 15-152,
                                            15-155
58.1-3720                                   10-34,
                                            10-38
58.1-3721                                   10-34
58.1-3722                                   10-39,
                                            10-40
58.1-3723                                   10-35
58.1-3728                                   10-1
58.1-3731                                   15-207
58.1-3740                                   15-141
58.1-3740 et seq.                           15-139,
                                            15-140
58.1-3741(A)                                15-142
58.1-3741(B)                                15-142
Title 58.1, Chapter 37.1                    15-139 
58.1-3800                                   15-127
58.1-3801                                   15-128
58.1-3805                                   15-115
58.1-3806                                   15-116
58.1-3812 et seq.                           15-207
58.1-3813                                   15-196
                                            15-64,
58.1-3814                                   15-196,
                                            15-207
58.1-3819                                   15-98,
                                            15-102
Title 58.1, Chapter 39                      15-139,
                                            15-152
Title 58.1, Chapter 39, Article 3           5-2 
Title 58.1, Chapter 39, Article 4           5-2
58.1-3903                                   15-177
                                            15-1 -
58.1-3916                                   15-3,
                                            15-168
58.1-3940                                   15-177
58.1-3980                                   15-12
58.1-3984                                   15-177,
                                            15-180
62.1-44.15:28                               7-3
                                            7-3,
62.1-44.15:52                               7-4,
                                            7-6
62.1-44.15:53                               7-3
62.1-44.15:54                               7-3
62.1-44.15:55                               7-6,
                                            7-7
62.1-44.15:55(E)                            7-4
                                            7-4,
62.1-44.15:56                               7-6,
                                            7-7
62.1-44.15:63(A)                            7-7
Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article 2.4        7-1
                                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                1-1
1-2                1-2
1-3                1-3
1-4                1-4
1-5                1-5
1-6                1-6
1-7                1-7
1-8                1-8
1-9                1-9
1-10               1-10
1-11               1-11
2-1                2-1
2-12               2-12
2-13               2-13
2-24               2-24
2-25               2-25
2-36               2-36
2-37               2-37
2-38               2-38
2-39               2-39
2-40               2-40
2-41               2-41
2-42               2-42
2-43               2-43
2-44               2-44
2-45               2-45
4-11               4-11
4-12               4-12
4-13               4-13
4-14               4-14
4-15               4-15
4-16               4-16
5-1                5-1
5-12               5-12
5-13               5-13
5-14               5-14
5-15               5-15
5-16               5-16
10-1               10-1
10-2               10-12
10-3               10-13
10-14              10-14
10-15              10-15
10-16              10-16
10-17              10-17
10-18              10-18
10-19              10-19
10-20              10-20
10-21              10-21
10-22              10-22
10-24              10-23
10-25              10-24
10-26              10-25
10-27              10-26
10-28              10-27
10-34              10-34
10-35              10-35
10-36              10-36
10-37              10-37
10-38              10-38
10-39              10-39
10-40              10-40
10-41              10-41
10-42              10-42
11-1               11-1
12-1               12-1
12-2               12-2
12-3               12-3
12-4               12-4
12-5               12-5
12-6               12-6
12-7               12-7
12-8               12-8
12-9               12-9
12-10              12-10
12-11              12-11
12-12              12-12
12-13              12-13
12-14              12-14
12-15              12-15
12-16              12-16
12-17              12-17
12-18              12-18
12-19              12-19
12-20              12-20
12-21              12-21
12-22              12-22
12-23              12-23
12-24              12-24
14-11              14-11
14-12              14-12
14-13              14-13
14-14              14-14
14-15              14-15
14-16              14-16
14-17              14-17
14-18              14-18
14-19              14-19
14-20              14-20
14-21              14-21
14-27              14-27
14-28              14-28
14-29              14-29
14-30              14-30
14-31              14-31
14-32              14-32
14-38              14-38
14-39              14-39
14-40              14-40
14-41              14-41
14-42              14-42
14-43              14-43
14-44              14-44
14-45              14-45
14-46              14-46
14-47              14-47
14-48              14-48
14-49              14-49
14-50              14-50
14-51              14-51
14-57              14-57
14-58              14-58
14-59              14-59
14-60              14-60
14-61              14-61
14-62              14-62
14-63              14-63
14-64              14-64
14-65              14-65
14-66              14-66
14-67              14-67
14-68              14-68
14-69              14-69
14-70              14-70
14-71              14-71
14-72              14-72
14-73              14-73
14-74              14-74
14-75              14-75
14-76              14-76
14-77              14-77
14-78              14-78
14-79              14-79
14-80              14-80
14-81              14-81
14-82              14-82
14-83              14-83
14-84              14-84
14-85              14-85
15-1               15-1
15-2               15-2
15-3               15-3
15-4               15-4
15-15              15-15
15-16              15-16
15-17              15-17
15-18              15-18
15-19              15-19
15-20              15-20
15-21              15-21
15-22              15-22
15-23              15-23
15-24              15-24
15-49              15-49
15-50              15-50
15-51              15-51
15-52              15-52
15-63              15-63
15-64              15-64
15-65              15-65
15-66              15-66
15-67              15-67
15-68              15-68
15-69              15-69
15-70              15-70
15-71              15-71
15-72              15-72
15-83              15-83
15-84              15-84
15-85              15-85
15-86              15-86
15-97              15-97
15-98              15-98
15-99              15-99
15-100             15-100
15-101             15-101
15-102             15-102
15-103             15-103
15-104             15-104
15-115             15-115
15-116             15-116
15-127             15-127
15-128             15-128
15-129             15-129
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      8-1-1960    15-115
—      1-4-1961    15-116,
                     15-129
05-056   11-17-2005  3-56
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      6-15-1938   10-1
—      7-7-1948    11-1
—      3-4-1959    15-129
—      5-4-1966    15-49,
                     15-51
                     4-11,
—      6-29-1966   4-13 -
                     4-16
—      6-4-1969    11-1
—      6-30-1971   2-24,
                     2-25
                     2-37,
                     2-39,
                     2-40,
—      9-4-1974    2-42,
                     5-1,
                     5-13 -
                     5-16
                     2-38,
—      9-4-1979    2-41,
                     2-43 -
                     2-45
—      6-4-1980    15-83 -
                     15-86
—      10-8-1980   15-1 -
                     15-3
                     10-12 -
—      5-13-1981   10-22,
                     10-24 -
                     10-27
—      11-15-1981  15-52
                     12-1 -
                     12-3,
—      3-2-1983    12-5 -
                     12-17,
                     12-19 -
                     12-24
—      8-3-1983    15-4
                     14-57 -
—      9-7-1984    14-75,
                     14-77 -
                     14-85
—      4-1-1985    15-63 -
                     15-72
—      7-12-1985   15-97 -
                     15-104
—      1-1-1986    10-34 -
                     10-42
—      1-10-1986   15-3
—      6-29-1989   10-18,
                     15-64
—      7-14-1989   12-4
—      8-25-1989   14-59
—      11-13-1989  2-12,
                     2-13
—      2-9-1990    2-1
—      9-14-1990   1-11
                     14-11 -
                     14-21,
—      11-9-1990   14-27 -
                     14-32,
                     14-38 -
                     14-51
—      11-15-1996  15-35 -
                     15-38
—      4-30-1998   15-12
—      7-18-2000   14-60
—      8-15-2000   15-243,
                     15-244
00–047 10-24-2000  15-195 -
                     15-197
01-049   9-18-2001   16-1
                     13-1 -
                     13-9,
                     13-19,
                     13-20,
                     13-30 -
                     13-33,
                     13-43 -
                     13-53,
—      3-19-2002   13-63 -
                     13-70,
                     13-80 -
                     13-84,
                     13-94 -
                     13-98,
                     13-108 -
                     13-110,
                     13-120 -
                     13-126
02-037   6-18-2002   2-3
—      9-17-2002   5-15
02-057   10-29-2002  15-207
—      10-19-2004  15-217 -
                     15-223
05-056   11-17-2005  3-56
—      12-20-2005  15-5 -
                     15-5.3
                     18-1,
—      11-20-2007  18-2,
                     18-12 -
                     18-15
216-10   2-16-2010   14-59
                     8-1 -
                     8-6,
                     8-16,
                     8-26 -
11-001   1-18-2011   8-29,
                     8-39 -
                     8-46,
                     8-56,
                     8-66
—      6-2-2011    6-11,
                     6-12
—      3-20-2012   15-15 -
                     15-24
—      6-19-2012   5-2
—      7-17-2012   2-56
                     6-18 -
—      3-19-2013   6-23,
                     6-30 -
                     6-36
                     15-139 -
                     15-142,
—      6-18-2013   15-152 -
                     15-155,
                     15-165 -
                     15-185
—      1-21-2014   App. A, 1-1
—      1-20-2015   7-1 -
                     7-8
                     17-1 -
                     17-8,
                     17-19,
                     17-20,
                     17-30 -
                     17-34,
                     17-44 -
                     17-53,
—      1-20-2015   17-63 -
                     17-66,
                     17-76 -
                     17-85,
                     17-95 -
                     17-99,
                     17-109,
                     17-119 -
                     17-122
                     3-1 -
                     3-14,
                     3-20 -
                     3-27,
16-001   5-17-2016   3-30 -
                     3-33,
                     3-40 -
                     3-47,
                     3-50 -
                     3-55
—      10-17-2017  2-67 -
                     2-71
18-001   1-19-2018   3-27
18-002   9-18-2018   2-57
—      2-19-2019   6-35
—      3-19-2019   15-6 -
                     15-9
—      9-17-2019   2-25
—      12-17-2019  10-16 -
                     10-18
—      12-17-2019  15-2,
                     15-3
—      2-18-2020   15-11
—      4-21-2020   4-1 -
                     4-4
—      5-19-2020   2-4
20-001   6-16-2020   11-2
—      7-21-2020   6-36
—      3-16-2021   2-2
—      7-20-2021   15-233
21-00    7-20-2021   15-10
                    
 
