NORTHAMPTON COUNTY, VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-30 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 7-8-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio * 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.13   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.16   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code,”
for which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted.
      (2)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD. The County Board of Supervisors.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The local government adopting this code of ordinances.
      LOCALITY. The area within the boundaries of the locality as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term LOCALITY when used in this code may also be used to refer
to the governing body of the locality, and its authorized representatives.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this local government unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Virginia.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect upon adoption, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.13 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway right-of-ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.16 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the legislative body that, when adopting this
code of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and
statutes adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to provisions of this code that impose
criminal or traffic penalties.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see VA Code § 1-13.39:2
   Traffic laws; authority to adopt by reference, see VA Code § 46.2-1313
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the locality for which another penalty is not specifically
provided shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and
punished as set forth in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the locality or any
rule or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the locality, under
authority duly vested in such officer or agency, it is provided that a
violation of any provision thereof shall constitute a Class 1, 2, 3 or 4
misdemeanor, such violation shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Class 1 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $2,500, and by
confinement in jail for not more than 12 months, either or both;
      (2)   Class 2 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $1,000, and by
confinement in jail for not more than six months, either or both;
      (3)   Class 3 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $500; and
      (4)   Class 4 misdemeanor: By a fine of not more than $250.
   (C)   The imposition of any penalty, pursuant to this or any other provision
of this code, shall not prohibit the locality from seeking equitable relief in
any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin the violation of any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the locality.
   (D)   Each day any violation of this code or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation referred to in this section shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense, except where otherwise provided.
   (E)   The penalties imposed under this section shall not exceed those
penalties prescribed by state law for like offenses.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for violation of ordinances, VA Code, §§ 15.2-1429; 15-2-1432
   Penalties for misdemeanors, VA Code § 18.2-11
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
   
31.   COUNTY POLICIES
   
32.   ELECTIONS
   
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
   
30.01   Joint Industrial Development Authority
   
30.02   Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board
   
30.03   Safety Program personnel
   
30.04   Biennial County Supervisor elections
   
30.05   Eastern Shore of Virginia Public Service Authority
§ 30.01 JOINT INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate political subdivision of the
Commonwealth of Virginia with such public and corporate powers as are set forth
in the Industrial Development and Revenue Bond Act, VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter
49 of 1950 as amended, including such powers as may hereinafter be set forth
from time to time in said Act.
   (B)   The name of the separate political subdivision of the Commonwealth
created by this section shall be the "Economic Development Authority of
Northampton County and Towns."
   (C)   The Authority shall be governed by a board of seven directors in which
all powers of the Authority shall be vested. Said Board of Directors shall be
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County, the Town Council
of Cape Charles, the Town Council of Cheriton, the Town Council of Exmore and
the Town Councils of the other participating incorporated towns of Northampton
County as follows:
      (1)   Initially, the Town Council of Cape Charles appointed two directors
and the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County appointed five directors as
set out below. On the first occasion hereafter upon which the term of office of
a Director appointed by Northampton County expires, the Town Council of
Cheriton shall have the right to appoint a Director for a four- year term.
Subsequently, as terms expire, and at such times as this section is amended by
the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County and the Town Councils of Cape
Charles, Cheriton, and Exmore and adopted by the Town Councils of the Towns of
Belle Haven, Eastville, or Nassawadox so that one or more of those towns has
joined the Authority, the Town Council of each town joining the Authority
pursuant to the provisions of the Act and of this section, as then amended and
adopted by Northampton County, the Towns of Cape Charles, Cheriton and Exmore,
and any other incorporated town in Northampton County, shall have the option of
appointing one director to the Authority. It is the intention of this provision
to create the possibility for each incorporated town with all or part of its
jurisdiction within Northampton County to eventually appoint one Director to
the Authority. As appointments are allocated to towns choosing to participate
in the Authority, the county shall relinquish the first three appointments to
such towns other than Cape Charles which pursuant to the Act and the provisions
of this section as then amended, join the Authority, the Town of Cape Charles
shall relinquish the fourth appointment to such town, and the county shall
relinquish the fifth appointment to such town.
      (2)   Initial appointments which were for terms beginning April 1, 1995,
were as follows:
         (a)   One-year term - one Northampton County;
         (b)   One-year term - one Town of Cape Charles;
         (c)   Two-year term - one Northampton County;
         (d)   Two-year term - one Town of Cape Charles;
         (e)   Three-year term - two Northampton County; and
         (f)   Four-year term - one Northampton County.
      (3)   Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four years, except
appointments to fill vacancies which shall be for the unexpired terms. Should
any town fail or decline to make an appointment within 30 days of its right to
do so, the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County shall make such
appointment.
      (4)   Qualifications for appointments as members of the Board of
Directors shall be as set out at VA Code § 15.2-4904. A member of the Board of
Directors, in addition to reimbursement for his or her necessary expenses for
travel and otherwise incurred in the performance of official duties, shall be
paid $10 for each regular, special or committee meeting attended by the member
and for instances in which the member of the Board serves as official
representative of the Authority not to exceed $10 per month.
   (D)   The County of Northampton, the Towns of Cape Charles, Cheriton, and
Exmore, and such other towns as are participating in the Authority as provided
in this section may, from time to time, provide operational funding for the
Authority. Such funding shall be at a level agreed to by the Board of
Supervisors of Northampton County and the Town Councils of Cape Charles,
Cheriton, Exmore and of any other town participating in the Authority pursuant
to this section. Unless otherwise agreed, when and if the governing bodies have
reached agreement as to the appropriate level of funding, each participating
town shall provide a percentage of the total funding agreed upon which is equal
to the percentage of the population of Northampton County which lives in such
town based upon the most recent decennial census. Northampton County shall
provide the balance of the funding not provided by the Towns of Cape Charles,
Cheriton, Exmore and other participating towns according to the foregoing
formula. Any net earnings as that term is used at VA Code § 15.2-4913 shall be
distributed according to the foregoing formula.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2000; Am. Ord. passed 8-11-2020)
§ 30.02 CHESAPEAKE BAY REGION CIGARETTE TAX BOARD.
   (A)   Name and duration. The Board shall be called the Chesapeake Bay Region
Cigarette Tax Board. Its duration shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions
of division (H) hereof.
   (B)   Membership and voting powers. The Board shall be composed of one
representative from each jurisdiction hereinbefore named or later added with
consent of the Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board. Said representative
may designate an alternate to attend meetings and vote in his or her place;
however, each jurisdiction shall be entitled to only one vote. Action of the
Board shall be by majority vote.
   (C)   Officers and meetings. Each year, the Board shall elect a Chairman,
Vice-Chairman and Secretary/Treasurer, who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board. The Officers of the Board shall be chosen from the jurisdictional
representatives. Said officers shall be empowered to sign in the name of the
Board on all legal documents, including bank deposits and withdrawals. The
Board shall meet from time to time as deemed necessary by the Chairman.
   (D)   Powers of the Board. The Board shall be delegated the following
powers:
      (1)   Assessment, collection and disbursement of the cigarette tax for
each participating jurisdiction;
      (2)   Audit of the sale or use of cigarettes within each participating
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Provision of information for criminal prosecution by the affected
participating jurisdictions;
      (4)   Provide guidance and oversight to the designated Administrative/
Fiscal Agent;
      (5)   Management of a general operating fund to ensure proper funding of
Board operations on an ongoing basis;
      (6)   Designation of a depository bank or banks;
      (7)   To hold and convey personal property. The Board shall have no power
to hold or convey real property;
      (8)   To enter into contracts;
      (9)   Any other powers granted to the Board by the respective local
ordinances and the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended.
   (E)   Liability insurance. The Board shall maintain and have authority to
secure insurance coverage as deemed appropriate. General liability insurance
shall be maintained through a commercial policy, in limits of not less than
$500,000. Any liability in excess of the amounts of insurance coverage will be
shared by the members of the Board proportionately based upon each
jurisdiction's share of the number of taxable packs of cigarettes reported in
the 12 months preceding the incident which gave rise to the liability, as
compared to the taxable packs of cigarettes reported during that same time
period in all the participating jurisdictions.
   (F)   Operational provisions. The Northern Neck Planning District Commission
(NNPDC) is designated as the administrative/fiscal agent. Normal routine duties
of the Board in administration and supervision of the Cigarette Tax Ordinances
shall be delegated to the NNPDC. Actions and decisions of the NNPDC shall bind
the Board unless patently wrongful or the result of willful misconduct, but the
Board may at anytime overrule a decision or action by the NNPDC subject to
lawful rights of third parties. The duties of the Administrative/Fiscal Agent
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Preparation of annual administrative cost estimates;
      (2)   As authorized by the Board, employment of or contracting for staff
assistance including providing employee benefits, and, equipment and supplies.
      (3)   Preparation of reports as the Board may require;
      (4)   (a)   Authorization of disbursements from Board accounts including,
but not limited to, disbursements to the participating jurisdictions.
         (b)   Each member jurisdiction will be charged a fee of 5% of the tax
revenue to cover the NNPDC cost to act as administrative/fiscal agent as
described above. In the event that the NNPDC costs exceed the amount collected
from the 5% fee, each jurisdiction will be charged its pro-rata share of that
amount based on its tax revenues as a percentage of the total tax revenues from
all member jurisdictions collected.
   (G)   Collection of cigarette tax. The cigarette tax shall be assessed and
collected on the basis of the "reporting method" according to the respective
ordinances and according to the rules, regulations and procedures adopted by
the Board.
   (H)   Disbursement of receipts, management of funds. 
      (1)   Disbursements shall be made to each participating jurisdiction on a
monthly basis. Prior to disbursement to jurisdictions, the 5% administrative
fee shall be deducted from total revenues and allocated to the jurisdictions
proportionately based upon the number of taxable packs of cigarettes reported
within the jurisdiction during the month as compared to the total number of
taxable packs of cigarettes reported in all the participating jurisdictions.
The disbursement to each participating jurisdiction shall be determined by the
tax rate of the jurisdiction multiplied by the taxable packs of cigarettes
reported within the jurisdiction, plus interest and penalties, plus the
jurisdiction's proportional share of all other revenues, less discounts and
proportional expenses.
      (2)   All monies shall be deposited in the name of the Chesapeake Bay
Region Cigarette Tax Board. All checks drawn on Board accounts shall require
signature by the NNPDC Executive Director and a Board Officer.
   (I)   Termination.
      (1)   In the event any participating jurisdiction decides, by ordinance,
to terminate its participation in the Board, notice to the Board shall be given
60 days prior to its date of termination. The terminating jurisdiction shall
receive within 30 days of its date of termination its share of total revenues
less proportionate expenses, operating fund, and depreciated value of physical
property used by the Board. The representative of such terminating jurisdiction
shall not serve on the Board beyond the termination date.
      (2)   In the event the number of jurisdictions which desire to continue
to participate in the Board is less than two in number, the Board shall be
dissolved and shall cease to exist. In such event, the Board shall liquidate
all assets and disburse to each jurisdiction participating at the time each
such jurisdiction's share of the liquidated assets and all proceeds and monies
held. Such distribution shall be based upon each jurisdiction's proportionate
share of the number of taxable packs of cigarettes reported in the preceding 12
months as compared to the taxable packs of cigarettes reported during that same
time period in all the jurisdictions participating in the Board at the time the
Board is dissolved.
   (J)   Implementation. Each jurisdiction shall by ordinance signify its
desire to be a member of the Board and its acceptance of the provisions of this
Agreement.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
See also:
   Northampton County Cigarette Tax, §§
33.200 et seq.
§ 30.03 SAFETY PROGRAM PERSONNEL.
   The active personnel of Cape Charles Rescue Service, Inc., Cape Charles
Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., Cheriton Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., Community
Fire Company, Inc., Eastville Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., Northampton Fire &
Rescue Service, Inc., Northampton County Department of Emergency Medical
services and any law enforcement officer of the county, thereof, are hereby
recognized as an integral part of the official safety program of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1973; Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2011)
§ 30.04 BIENNIAL COUNTY SUPERVISOR ELECTIONS.
   Beginning with the election in November of 2009, members of the County Board
of Supervisors shall be elected biennially for staggered four-year terms with
three members being elected at that time followed by the remaining two members
in November 2011.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013)
§ 30.05 EASTERN SHORE OF VIRGINIA PUBLIC SERVICE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Eastern Shore of Virginia Public Service Authority (the
"Authority") consents to the joinder of the incorporated Towns of Cape Charles,
Cheriton, Nassawadox and Exmore as members of the Authority.
   (B)   Paragraph (2) of the Articles of Incorporation for the Eastern Shore
of Virginia Public Service Authority is hereby rescinded, and the following
language shall be substituted therefor:
      2.   The address of the Authority's principal office shall be 5229 The
Hornes, Eastville, Virginia 23347, and the mailing address of the Authority's
principal office shall be Post Office Box 690, Eastville, Virginia 23347.
   (C)   Paragraph (4) of the Articles of Incorporation for the Eastern Shore
of Virginia Public Service Authority is hereby rescinded, and the following
language shall be substituted therefor:
      4.   The powers of the Authority shall be exercised by nine (9) Authority
Board members, all of whom shall be appointed in the following manner: One (1)
Authority Board member shall be appointed by the town council of each of the
four (4) member towns (Towns of Cape Charles, Cheriton, Nassawadox & Exmore),
and five (5) At- Large Authority Board members shall be appointed by the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors, which appointees may or may not be
members of the respective governing bodies.
         Authority Board members shall serve staggered initial terms, which
have been by draw, as set our below:
         5 members: 4 year terms
         5 members: 2 year terms
         Initial terms shall commence upon the issuance of a certificate by the
State Corporation Commission as provided in Section 15.2-5112 of the Code of
Virginia and shall extend as set forth below. Thereafter, all successive
appointments shall be for terms of four (4) years.
         In the event a vacancy is created by the death, resignation or removal
of any Authority Board member, the appointment to fill such vacancy shall be
for the unexpired portion of the remaining terms and shall be made by the
respective locality where the vacancy occurred.
   (D)   Paragraph (5) of the Articles of Incorporation for the Eastern Shore
of Virginia Public Service Authority is hereby rescinded, and the following
language shall be substituted therefor:
      5.   The purposes for which the Authority are being created are to study,
implement and operate a septage treatment and disposal system, a sewer system,
a water system, a stormwater control system, or any combination of such
systems; and to transfer and operate existing systems; study and construct and
operate expansions of existing systems; and study and construct new systems.
The Authority is further authorized to exercise those powers set forth in the
Virginia Water and Waste Authorities Act which pertain to water and waste
systems.
   (E)   New paragraphs (7) and (8) are to be added to the Articles of
Incorporation for the Eastern Shore of Virginia Public Service Authority as
follows:
      7.   It is hereby determined that the initial focus of the Authority
shall be:
         a.   Sewer expansion for Exmore and sewer service for Nassawadox,
including Riverside Shore Memorial Hospital, and the surrounding areas of
Northampton County.
         b.   Sewer expansion for Cape Charles and sewer service for Cheriton
and the surrounding areas of Northampton County.
         c.   Conveyance of the existing Exmore, Cape Charles and Bayview sewer
and water systems to the Authority.
      8.   The study and construction of future system expansions or new
systems shall be compatible with the Comprehensive Plan of the participating
localities.
   (F)   The Authority's attorney is hereby authorized and directed to apply to
the State Corporation Commission for this approval of the joinder of the
incorporated Towns of Cape Charles, Nassawadox, and Exmore and for this
amendment to the Authority's Articles of Incorporation.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2010; Am. Ord. passed 5-8-2012)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   (Reserved)
   
31.02   Assessment of processing fees in district and circuit courts;
disbursement of funds collected therefrom
   
31.03   Assessment of fees incident to criminal and traffic cases in district
and circuit courts; disbursement of funds collected therefrom
   
31.04   Disposition of unclaimed personal property
   
31.05   Fee for passing bad checks to local governing bodies
   
31.06   Age requirements for firefighting
   
31.07   Local emergency procedures; COVID-19
§ 31.01 (RESERVED).
§ 31.02 ASSESSMENT OF PROCESSING FEES IN DISTRICT AND CIRCUIT COURTS;
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS COLLECTED THEREFROM.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-1613.1, as amended.
   (B)   There is levied an assessment of $25 as a part of the fees taxed in
each case in the General District Court, Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court
and Circuit Court of Northampton County wherein an individual is admitted to
the Northampton County Jail following conviction.
   (C)   The fee shall be ordered as a part of court costs collected by the
Clerk of the Court in which such conviction is made and, upon collection, shall
be remitted to the County Treasurer.
   (D)   The County Treasurer shall segregate such funds and hold same for
disbursement to the Sheriff’s Office as directed by the Northampton County
Board of Supervisors to defray the costs of processing arrested persons into
the Northampton County Jail.
   (E)   The assessment provided for herein shall be in addition to any other
fees prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2002)
§ 31.03 ASSESSMENT OF FEES INCIDENT TO CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC CASES IN DISTRICT
AND CIRCUIT COURTS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS COLLECTED THEREFROM.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to VA Code § 53.1-120, as amended.
   (B)   There is levied an assessment of $22 as a part of the fees taxed in
each criminal and traffic case in the General District Court, Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court and Circuit Court of Northampton County.
   (C)   The assessment imposed shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court in
which such action is filed and, upon collection, shall be remitted to the
County Treasurer.
   (D)   The County Treasurer shall segregate such funds and hold same for
disbursement as follows:
      (1)   Twenty dollars to the Sheriff’s Office as directed by the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors for the funding of courthouse security;
and
      (2)   Two dollars as directed by the Northampton County Board of
Supervisors for the construction, renovation or maintenance of the courthouse
or jail and for other court-related facilities and to defray increases in the
cost of heating, cooling, electricity and ordinary maintenance.
   (E)   The assessment provided for herein shall be in addition to any other
fees prescribed by law.
   (F)   (1)   This division (F) is enacted pursuant to VA Code § 17.1-279.1,
as amended.
      (2)   There is hereby levied an assessment of $5 as a part of the fees
taxed in each criminal and traffic case in the District Court and Circuit Court
of Northampton County.
      (3)   The assessment imposed hereby shall be collected by the Clerk of
the Court in which such action is filed and, upon collection, shall be remitted
to the County Treasurer.
      (4)   The County Treasurer shall segregate such funds and hold same
subject to disbursements by the governing body to a local law enforcement
agency solely to fund software, hardware and associated equipment costs for the
implementation and maintenance of an electronic summons system.
      (5)   The assessment provided for herein shall be in addition to any
other fees prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1990; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-1992; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2002;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. passed 10-13-2015; Am. Ord. passed 7-14-
2020)
§ 31.04 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to the provisions of VA Code §§ 15.2-1719 and
15.2-1720, as amended, the Northampton County Board of Supervisors may adopt an
ordinance to provide for the disposal of unclaimed personal property in the
possession of the Sheriff by:
      (1)   Public sale in accordance with the provisions of this section; or
by
      (2)   Retention for use by the law enforcement agency of any unclaimed
personal property which has been in the possession of its law enforcement
agencies and unclaimed for a period of more than 60 days.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any personal property belonging to another
which has been acquired by a law enforcement officer pursuant to his duties,
which is not needed in any criminal prosecution, which has not been claimed by
its rightful owner and which the State Treasurer has indicated will be declined
if remitted under the Uniform Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act, VA Code §
55-210.1, as amended.
   (C)   Procedure. Prior to the sale or retention for use by the law
enforcement agency of any unclaimed item, the Sheriff or his duly authorized
agent shall:
      (1)   Make reasonable attempts to notify the rightful owner of the
property;
      (2)   Obtain from the Attorney for the Commonwealth in writing a
statement advising that the item is not needed in any criminal prosecution;
      (3)   Cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county once a week for two successive weeks notice that there will be a public
display and sale of unclaimed personal property. Such property, including
property selected for retention by the law enforcement agency, shall be
described generally in the notice, together with the date, time and place of
the sale and shall be made available for public viewing at the sale.
   (D)   Disposition of proceeds.
      (1)   The Sheriff or his duly authorized agent shall pay from the
proceeds of the sale the costs of advertisement, removal, storage,
investigation as to ownership and liens, and notice of sale. The balance of the
funds shall be held by such officer for the owner and paid to the owner upon
satisfactory proof of ownership.
      (2)   Any unclaimed item retained for use by the law enforcement agency
shall become the property of Northampton County and shall be retained only if
in the opinion of the Sheriff that there is a legitimate use for the property
by the agency and that retention of the item is a more economical alternative
than purchase of a similar or equivalent item.
      (3)   If no claim has been made by the owner for the property or proceeds
of such sale within 60 days of the sale, the remaining funds shall be deposited
in the General Fund of Northampton County and the retained property may be
placed into use by the law enforcement agency. Any such owner shall be entitled
to apply to Northampton County within three years from the date of the sale
and, if timely application is made therefore and satisfactory proof of
ownership of the funds or property is made, Northampton County shall pay the
remaining proceeds of the sale or return the property to the owner without
interest or other charges or compensation.
      (4)   No claim shall be made nor any suit, action, or proceeding be
instituted for the recovery of such funds or property after three years from
the date of the sale.
   (E)   Bicycles and the like. The Sheriff may dispose of any bicycle,
electric power-assisted bicycle or moped that has been in the possession of the
Sheriff’s office or any law enforcement agency of the county, unclaimed, for
more than 30 days by retention of or public sale of the item as provided in
divisions (B), (C) and (D) above or by donation of such items to a charitable
organization in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-1720.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2002)
§ 31.05 FEE FOR PASSING BAD CHECKS TO LOCAL GOVERNING BODIES.
   There is levied a fee of $85 for the uttering, publishing or passing of any
check or draft for payment of taxes or other sums due, which is subsequently
returned for insufficient funds or because there is no account or the account
has been closed.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011)
§ 31.06 AGE REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREFIGHTING.
   (A)   Subject to any restrictions that may be placed by a volunteer fire
company or by the Accomack-Northampton Fireman's Association, any person who is
16 years of age or older, after first obtaining his or her parent's or
guardian's approval, in writing, is authorized to work or participate fully in
all activities of a volunteer fire company, provided such person has obtained
certification under National Fire Protection Association 1001, Level One,
Firefighter Standards, as administrated by the Virginia Department of
FirePrograms, and provided that the volunteer fire company has purchased
insurance which provides coverage for injuries to or the death of such person
in the performance of activities under this section.
   (B)   The certification record and parental/ guardian consent shall be kept
on file in the office of the volunteer fire company for each participant who is
enrolled in a fire company pursuant to this section, and the name of each
participant shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court pursuant to
Section 27-42 of the Code of Virginia of 1959, as amended.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1987)
§ 31.07 LOCAL EMERGENCY PROCEDURES; COVID-19.
   By the Board of Supervisors of the County of Northampton, Virginia:
   (A)   That it hereby confirms and ratifies the Declaration of Local
Emergency made on March 19, 2020, by the Director of Emergency Management.
   (B)   That it understands and confirms that the Declaration of Local
Emergency empowers the Director of Emergency Management with special authority
and duties, said authority and duties being defined by the laws, rules,
regulations and plans of the United States of America, the Commonwealth of
Virginia and the County of Northampton.
   (C)   That it understands and confirms that when, in judgment of this Board
of Supervisors, all needed emergency actions have been taken, appropriate
action to end the declared local emergency will be taken.
   (D)   That the infectious nature of COVID-19 makes it unsafe to assemble a
quorum of this Board in a single location, or to assemble members of the public
in a single location, making it difficult or impossible for this Board and the
county's boards and commissions to conduct meetings in accordance with normal
practices and procedures. In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-1413, 1950, as
amended, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, general or special, the
following emergency procedures are adopted to ensure continuity of government
during the pendency of the emergency and disaster created by COVID-19:
      (1)   That any process, procedure, or matter which requires the physical
presence of the public in a county building that the County Administrator has
declared or in the future declares to be closed to the public is hereby
suspended.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board of Supervisors and other county boards or
commissions may be held through electronic communication means without a quorum
of members physically present in a single location, provided that notice of
such meetings is still given in accordance with applicable laws.
      (3)   All rules of procedure adopted by the Board of Supervisors are
hereby suspended.
      (4)   All such county meetings may be held without permitting members of
the public to be physically present in a central location or in the same
physical location as any of the board or commission members, so long as
alternative arrangements for public access to such meetings are made. Such
alternative public access may be electronic, including but not limited to
audio, telephonic, or video broadcast.
      (5)   For any matter requiring a public hearing by law, public comment
will be solicited and received via written means prior to the vote on such
matter. Public comments may also be solicited and, if so solicited, received,
via electronic and/or telephonic means if possible and practical. All such
comments will be provided to the members of the body and made a part of the
record of such meeting.
   (E)   That the provisions in the aforesaid division (D) shall be in effect
until repealed by this Board, for a period not exceeding six months from the
declaration of a local emergency. Upon repeal or expiration of the aforesaid
division (D), the matters referenced therein shall resume operation in
accordance with normal practices and procedures.
(Ord. passed 3-24-2020)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Election districts
§ 32.01 ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to authority contained in Chapter 1.1
of Title 15.2 and Chapters 4 and 4.2 of Title 24.1 of the 1950 Code of
Virginia.
   (B)   The county shall be divided into five election districts to be named
as set out in the following table. Based upon the tabulation of population from
the 2020 Census, populations of each such election district are as follows:
 
Name of Election District Total Population
District 1                2477
District 2                2474
District 3                2505
District 4                2391
District 5                2477
 
   (C)   The boundaries of the respective election districts and precincts are
as set forth below:
      (1)   Election District Number One. Beginning at the intersection of
Kings Creek and U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence extending West
through Kings Creek to the Chesapeake Bay, thence South along the Chesapeake
Bay to North Channel in the Chesapeake Bay; thence East along the North Channel
to the Atlantic Ocean; thence Northeast along the shoreline of Fisherman's
Island, Smith Island, Myrtle Island, Godwin Island, Ship Shoal Island and Wreck
Island in the Atlantic Ocean to the intersection of Sand Shoal Inlet; thence
West along Sand Shoal Inlet to Sand Shoal Channel; thence West along Sand Shoal
Channel to its intersection with Mockhorn Channel; thence South along Mockhorn
Channel to its intersection with Mill Creek; thence West along Mill Creek to
its intersection with State Route 600 (Seaside Road); thence North along State
Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its intersection with State Route 643 (Plantation
Drive); thence West along State Route 643 (Plantation Drive) to its
intersection with Winchester Lane; thence South along Winchester Lane along the
western boundary of Block 1091 in Census Tract 930302; thence West along the
boundary of Block 1091 in Census Tract 930302 to an intersection with U. S.
Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence North along U. S. Route 13 (Lankford
Highway), to its intersection with the Kings Creek and the point of beginning.
      (2)   Election District Number Two. Beginning at the intersection of
Kings Creek and U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence West through Kings
Creek to its intersection with the Chesapeake Bay; thence extending North to
Old Castle Creek; thence East following Old Castle Creek to its intersection
with U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence North along U. S. Route 13
(Lankford Highway) to its intersection with State Route 648 (Stumptown Road);
thence East along State Route 648 (Stumptown Road) to its intersection with the
right-of-way of Bay Coast Railroad; thence North along the right-of-way of Bay
Coast Railroad to its intersection with the corporate limits of the Town of
Eastville; thence following the corporate limits of the Town of Eastville to
its intersection with State Route 631 (Indiantown Road); thence East along
State Route 631 (Indiantown Road) to its intersection with State Route 600
(Seaside Road); thence North along State Route 600 (Seaside Road) to an
intersecting point with Block 4079 in Census Tract 930200 and Block 4082 in
Census Tract 930200; thence North along the western boundaries of Blocks 4082,
4077 and 4070 in Census Tract 930200 to its intersection with State Route 628
(James Allen Drive); thence East along State Route 628 (James Allen Drive) to
its intersection with Route 600 (Seaside Road); thence South along State Route
600 (Seaside Road) to its intersection with an intersecting point of Blocks
4070 and 4066 in Census Tract 930200; thence following the boundary of Block
4066 in Census Tract 930200 to its intersection with Holt Creek; thence East
along Holt Creek to its intersection with the Atlantic Ocean; thence East in
the Atlantic Ocean to encompass Cobb Island; thence Southward to the terminus
of Cobb Island; thence West and South through Sand Shoal Channel and Mockhorn
Channel to its intersection with Mill Creek; thence following Mill Creek to its
intersection with State Route 600 (Seaside Road); thence North along State
Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its intersection with State Route 643 (Plantation
Drive); thence West along State Route 643 (Plantation Drive) to its
intersection with Winchester Lane; thence South along Winchester Lane following
the eastern boundary of Block 1090 in Census Tract 930302; thence West along
the boundary of Block 1090 in Census Tract 930302 to its intersection with U.
S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence North along U. S. Route 13 to its
intersection with Kings Creek and the point of beginning.
      (3)   Election District Number Three.  Beginning at the intersection of
State Route 625 (Sylvan Scene Drive) and State Route 618 (Bayside Road); thence
North along State Route 618 (Bayside Road) to its intersection with State Route
618 (Johnsontown Road); thence North along State Route 618 (Johnsontown Road)
to its intersection with State Route 618 (Bayside Road); thence along State
Route 618 (Bayside Road) to its intersection with State Route 606 (Rogers
Drive); thence West on State Route 606 (Rogers Drive) to its intersection with
State Route 610 (Wardtown Road); thence North-Northwest on State Route 610
(Wardtown Road) to its intersection with State Route 183 (Occohannock Neck
Road); thence East along State Route 183 (Occohannock Neck Road) to its
intersection with State Route 652 (Broadwater Road); thence following State
Route 652 (Broadwater Road) to its intersection with the eastern boundary of
Block 3023 in Census Tract 930100; then following the boundary of Block 3023 in
Census Tract 930100 to its intersection with the corporate limits of the Town
of Exmore; thence following the corporate limits of the Town of Exmore along
the boundaries of Blocks 2001, 2002, 2005, and 2013 in Census Tract 930100 to
its intersection with U. S. Route 13; thence North on U. S. Route 13 following
the corporate limits of the Town of Exmore North and East to its intersection
with State Route 604 (Oakland Drive); thence East to the intersection with
State Route 600 (Seaside Road); thence North on State Route 600 (Seaside Road)
to an intersecting point of Blocks 4010 and 4005 in Census Tract 930100 and
following the boundary of Block 4005 in Census Tract 930100 to the Northampton/
Accomack County line; thence East along the County line to its intersection
with Parting Creek; then south along Parting Creek through various inlets,
South and East to encompass Hog Island in the Atlantic Ocean; thence following
the perimeter of Hog Island to its terminus; thence West through the Atlantic
Ocean to the Great Machipongo Inlet; thence through the Great Machipongo Inlet
to its intersection with Ramshorn Crabbing Marsh; thence through Ramshorn
Crabbing Marsh to its intersection with Castle Ridge Creek; thence through
Castle Ridge Creek to its intersection with Red Bank Creek; thence through Red
Bank Creek to its intersection with State Route 617 (Red Bank Road); thence
West along State Route 617 (Red Bank Road) to its intersection with State Route
600 (Seaside Road); thence South along State Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its
intersection with State Route 622 (Treherneville Drive); thence West along
State Route 622 (Treherneville Drive) to the intersecting points of Blocks
4028, 4026, 4024 and 4022 in Census Tract 930200; thence South the eastern
boundary of Block 4026 in Census Tract 930200 to its intersection with State
Route 625 (Sylvan Scene Drive); thence west along State Route 625 (Sylvan Scene
Drive) to its intersection with State Route 618 (Bayside Road) and the point of
beginning.
      (4)   Election District Number Four. Beginning at the mouth of Old Castle
Creek; thence West through Old Castle Creek to its intersection with the
Chesapeake Bay; thence North in the Chesapeake Bay to its intersection with
Nassawadox Creek; thence East through the headwaters of Nassawadox Creek to its
intersection with State Route 610 (Wardtown Road); thence South along State
Route 610 (Wardtown Road) to its intersection with State Route 606 (Rogers
Drive); thence East along State Route 606 (Rogers Drive) to its intersection
with State Route 618 (Bayside Road); thence South along State Route 618
(Bayside Road) to its intersection with State Route 618 (Johnsontown Road);
thence South along State Route 618 (Johnsontown Road) to its intersection with
State Route 618 (Bayside Road); thence South along State Route 618 (Bayside
Road) to its intersection with State Route 625 (Sylvan Scene Drive); thence
East along State Route 625 (Sylvan Scene Drive) to its intersection with the
western boundary of Block 4028 in Census Tract 930200; thence North along the
boundary of Block 4028 in Census Tract 930200 to its intersection with State
Route 622 (Treherneville Drive); thence East along State Route 622
(Treherneville Drive) to its intersection with State Route 600 (Seaside Road);
thence North along State Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its intersection with
State Route 617 (Red Bank Road); thence East along State Route 617 (Red Bank
Road) to its intersection with Red Bank Creek; thence East along Red Bank Creek
to Castle Ridge Creek; thence East and South along Castle Ridge Creek to its
intersection with Ramshorn Crabbing Marsh; thence South along Ramshorn Crabbing
Marsh to its intersection with the mouth of Holt Creek and the Eastern boundary
of Block 4069 in Census Tract 930200; thence following the boundary of Block
4069 in Census Tract 930200 South and West to its intersection with State Route
600 (Seaside Road); thence North along State Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its
intersection with State Route 628 (James Allen Drive); thence West along State
Route 628 (James Allen Drive) to the northwest corner of Block 4070 in Census
Tract 930200; thence Southward along the boundaries of Block 4070, 4077, and
4082 in Census Tract 930200 to its intersection with State Route 600 (Seaside
Road); thence following State Route 600 (Seaside Road) South to its
intersection with State Route 631 (Indiantown Road); thence West along State
Route 631 (Indiantown Road) to the corporate limits of the Town of Eastville;
thence along the corporate limits of the Town of Eastville to the Bay Coast
Railroad right-of-way; thence following the Bay Coast Railroad right-of-way
south to its intersection with Stumptown Road; thence West along Stumptown Road
to its intersection with U S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway); thence South along
U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway) to its intersection with Old Castle Creek;
thence West along Old Castle Creek to the point of beginning.
      (5)   Election District Number Five. Beginning at the intersection of U.
S. Route 13 and the Northampton/Accomack County line; thence West along said
County line to Occohannock Creek; thence following Occohannock Creek West to
the Chesapeake Bay; thence South along the Chesapeake Bay to the mouth of
Nassawadox Creek; thence East to the headwaters of Nassawadox Creek and
following the headwaters to its intersection with State Route 606 (Wardtown
Road); thence North following State Route 606 (Wardtown Road) to its
intersection with State Route 183 (Occohannock Neck Road); thence East along
State Route 183 (Occohannock Neck Road) to its intersection with State Route
652 (Broadwater Road); thence following State Route 652 (Broadwater Road) to
its intersection with Block 3023 in Census Tract 930100; thence following the
boundary of Block 3023 in Census Tract 930100 to its intersection with the
corporate limits of the Town of Exmore; thence following the corporate limits
of the Town of Exmore South and East along Blocks 2001, 2002, 2005, and 2013 in
Census Tract 930100 to its intersection with U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway);
thence North on U. S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway) and Eastward following the
corporate limits of the Town of Exmore along State Route 604 (Oakland Drive) to
its intersection with State Route 600 (Seaside Road); thence North along State
Route 600 (Seaside Road) to its intersection with Block 4005 in Census Tract
930100; thence West and North along the eastern boundary of Block 4005 in
Census Tract 930100 to the Northampton/Accomack County line; thence West along
the County line to the point of beginning.
   (D)   A map of Northampton County delineating the boundaries of the
respective election districts is attached hereto and incorporated herein.
   (E)   Each election district shall consist of one precinct, the boundaries
of which are the same as set forth above for the district boundaries.
   (F)   The polling place for each district is as set forth below:
      (1)   District 1 – Trinity United Methodist Church Fellowship Hall (410
Tazewell Avenue).
      (2)   District 2 - Cheriton United Methodist Church Fellowship Hall
(21309 South Bayside Road).
      (3)   District 3 – Northampton Fire & Rescue Station (10239 Pine Avenue).
      (4)   District 4 – Johnson's United Methodist Church Social Hall (11175
Bayside Road).
      (5)   District 5 – Exmore Fire Station (3356 Main Street).
   (G)   The General Registrar for Northampton County shall notify by mail no
later than fifteen days prior to the next general, special or primary election
all registered voters whose election district is changed by this section. The
General Registrar for Northampton County shall cause notice of the change in
election district boundaries to be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in Northampton County once a week for two successive weeks prior to
the next general, special or primary election.
   (H)   There shall be one supervisor elected from each election district.
   (I)   This section shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its
adoption; provided, however, that the several election districts of Northampton
County with boundary lines and designations thereof as constituted and known on
the day before this section becomes effective shall continue to be represented
as such on the Board of Supervisors, the County School Board, and other boards
appointed by election district shall continue to be represented as such for the
remainder of the current term of such individual appointed or elected thereto
or until the earlier vacancy in such office, whichever shall first occur.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. passed 1-11-2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-14-
2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2007; Am. Ord. passed 5-10-2011; Am. Ord. passed 9-
26-2011; Am. Ord. passed 9-26-2011; Am. Ord. passed 7-8-2014; Am. Ord. passed
7-10-2018; Am. Ord. passed 11-23-2021)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   County sales tax
   
33.002   Additional sales tax; use of revenues for construction or renovation
of schools
   
33.003   Release of lien on portion of real estate upon payment of taxes
   
33.004   Rates of taxation for certain tangible personal property
   
33.005   Proration of personal property tax
   
33.006   Bank franchise tax
   
33.007   Failure to file certain tax returns
   
33.008   License tax upon motor vehicles
   
33.009   Penalties and fees imposed on delinquent taxpayers to cover
administrative costs and reasonable attorney’s fees associated with collection
of delinquent taxes
   
33.010   Biennial reassessment of real estate
   
33.011   Nassawadox Creek Service District
   
33.012   Delinquent real estate taxes issued before special use permits,
variances, rezoning or other land use permits
   
33.013   County recordation tax
   
33.014   Property tax order of payment
   
33.015   Community Revitalization Fund
   
33.016   Due date of real estate taxes; when same deemed delinquent; penalty
for failure to pay taxes when due; interest
Exemptions
   
33.025   Exempting from taxation certain household goods and personal effects
   
33.026   Exempting from taxation certain classes of farm animals, grains and
fees used for the nurture of farm animals
   
33.027   Exemption from taxation of real estate of certain elderly or
handicapped persons
   
33.028   Tax exemption for rehabilitated residential structures
   
33.029   Randy Custis Memorial Fund; exemption
   
33.030   Real estate tax abatement program
   
33.031   Real estate tax exemption for rehabilitated commercial and industrial
structures
   
33.032   Exempting from taxation certain non-profit organizations
Tax on Purchases of Utility Services
   
33.040   Definitions
   
33.041   Imposition; rate; collection
   
33.042   Collection; remission; report of collections
   
33.043   Seller’s records
   
33.044   Exceptions
   
33.045   Failure to pay tax imposed
License Tax on Certain Public Utility and Service Companies
   
33.060   Definitions
   
33.061   Administration
   
33.062   Telephone and telegraph companies
   
33.063   Heat, light, power and gas companies
   
33.064   Conflicts
Transient Occupancy Tax
   
33.075   Definitions
   
33.076   Tax levy and rate
   
33.077   Use of funds
   
33.078   Exceptions
   
33.079   Collection procedure
   
33.080   Reports and remittance of tax
   
33.081   Interest and penalties
   
33.082   Failure or refusal to collect and report tax
   
33.083   Records to be kept by person liable for collection and payment of tax
   
33.084   Tax immediately due and payable upon cessation of business
Tax on Consumers of Local Telephone Services for Establishment
and Maintenance of Enhanced 911 Emergency Telephone System
   
33.095   Findings, purpose and authority
   
33.096   Definitions
   
33.097   Levy of tax
   
33.098   Collection of tax and records
   
33.099   Use of revenue
Tax on Food and Beverages Sold in Restaurants
   
33.115   Definitions
   
33.116   Administration and enforcement
   
33.117   Tax levied; amount
   
33.118   Exemptions
   
33.119   Application of tax to tips and service charges
   
33.120   Payment and collection of tax
   
33.121   Registration of sellers; reports and remittances of tax
   
33.122   Duty of Commissioner of Revenue
   
33.123   Duty of Treasurer
   
33.124   Duty of seller going out of business
   
33.125   Penalty and interest for late remittance; violations
   
33.126   Procedure upon failure to collection, report and the like
   
33.127   Advertising payment or absorption of tax prohibited
   
33.128   Compensation for collection
Mobile Local Telecommunication Tax
   
33.140   Authority
   
33.141   Definitions
   
33.142   Tax imposed
   
33.143   Duty of County Treasurer
   
33.144   Duty of service provider
   
33.145   Exemption from tax
   
33.146   Consumer credit
   
33.147   Service provider’s records
   
33.148   Violations
Implementation of 2004-2005 Changes
to the Personal Property Tax Relief Act of 1998
   
33.180   Purpose; definitions; relation to ordinances
   
33.181   Method of computing and reflecting tax relief
   
33.182   Allocation of relief among taxpayers
   
33.183   Transitional provisions
Northampton County Cigarette Tax
   
33.200   Cigarette tax title
   
33.201   Definitions
   
33.202   Levy and rate
   
33.203   Methods of collection
   
33.204   Registered agents
   
33.205   Requirements for retail dealers
   
33.206   Presumption of illegality; seizure of contraband goods, sealing/
seizing of machines
   
33.207   Illegal acts
   
33.208   Authorization to join the Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board
   
33.209   Powers of the Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board
   
33.210   Jeopardy assessment
   
33.211   Erroneous assessment: notices and hearings in event of sealing of
vending machines or seizure of contraband property
   
33.212   Disposal of seized property
   
33.213   Extensions
   
33.214   Each violation a separate offense
   See also:
      Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board, §
30.02
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 COUNTY SALES TAX.
   General retail sales tax for the county. Pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-605, as
amended from time to time, a local general sales tax at the rate of 1% to
provide revenue for the General Fund for the County of Northampton is levied.
The tax shall be added to the rate of the state sales tax imposed by the Code
of Virginia, as amended from time to time. It shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of the Code of Virginia, all the amendments thereto, and
the rules and regulations published with respect thereto.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1966; Am. Ord. passed - -1981; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.002 ADDITIONAL SALES TAX; USE OF REVENUES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR RENOVATION
OF SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Sales tax. In addition to the sales tax authorized by §
33.001, there is hereby levied an additional general retail sales tax, at a
rate of 1%, to provide revenue solely for the construction or renovation of
schools.
   (B)   Use tax. In addition to the use tax authorized by VA Code § 58.1-606,
there is hereby levied an additional use tax, at a rate of 1%, to provide
revenue solely for the construction or renovation of schools.
   (C)   Collection. The additional general retail sales tax and additional use
tax imposed pursuant to this section shall be administered and collected by the
State Tax Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of VA Code §§ 58.1-
605.1 and 58.1-606.1, as amended from time to time.
   (D)   Effective date. The additional sales tax and additional use tax shall
become effective on the first day of the month, at least 120 days after the
adoption of this section.
   (E)   Certification. A certified copy of this section shall be forwarded to
the Tax Commissioner of the Commonwealth within five days of its enactment.
   (F)   Expiration. This additional sales tax shall expire January 15, 2040.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 33.003 RELEASE OF LIEN ON PORTION OF REAL ESTATE UPON PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of VA Code § 58.1-
3226.1, as amended.
   (B)   When a person, firm or corporation purchases or acquires a portion of
a tract of real estate, such person, firm or corporation may apply to the
Commissioner of the Revenue of Northampton County to determine the amount of
any tax or assessment that is properly chargeable against such portion of real
estate. Upon receipt of such application the Commissioner of the Revenue shall
proceed to make such determination and certify same to the County Treasurer.
   (C)   The County Treasurer shall release such portion of real estate from
any lien for delinquent taxes, upon receipt of payment for the total amount of
taxes and penalty and interest due on such portion of real estate.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 33.004 RATES OF TAXATION FOR CERTAIN TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Personal property in Northampton County set out in this section which
is subject to taxation by Northampton County is classified into the following
categories and taxed at the rates set out.
      (1)   Farm machinery and farm implements as set out in VA Code § 58.1-
3505. The tax rate on such property shall be $2.60 per $100 of assessed value.
      (2)   Machinery and tools as provided in VA Code § 58.1-3507. This
classification shall include but is not limited to boats and equipment used
primarily in the commercial harvesting of seafood. The tax rate on such
property shall be $2.16 per $100 of assessed value.
      (3)   Tangible personal property used in a research and development
business. The tax rate on such property shall be $4.28 per $100 of assessed
value.
      (4)   Aircraft having a maximum passenger seating capacity of no more
than 50 which are owned and operated by scheduled air carriers operating under
certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the State
Corporation Commission or the Civil Aeronautics Board. The tax rate on such
property shall be $4.28 per $100 of assessed value.
      (5)   Heavy construction machinery, including, but not limited to land
movers, bulldozers, front-end loaders, graders, packets, power shovels, cranes,
pile drivers, forest harvesting equipment and ditch and other types of diggers.
The tax rate on such property shall be $2.75 per $100 of assessed value.
      (6)   Computer hardware used by businesses primarily engaged in providing
data processing services to other nonrelated or nonaffiliated businesses. The
tax rate on such property shall be $2.75 per $100 of assessed value.
   (B)   The tax rates set out above shall be effective for the 1992 tax year
and for subsequent years until changed by the Board of Supervisors of
Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1992)
§ 33.005 PRORATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   There shall be a personal property tax at a rate established each year
by the Board of Supervisors on motor vehicles and trailers, (hereafter referred
to in this section as "taxable property") which have a situs within the county
on January 1 of each year ("the tax day") and which acquire a situs within the
county on or after January 2 of each year. Such tax shall be prorated on a
monthly basis. For purposes of proration, a period of more than one-half of a
month shall be counted as a full month and a period less than one-half of a
month shall not be counted. All taxable property shall be assessed as of
January 1 of each year if it has a situs within the county as of that date or
as of the date it acquires a situs in the county. The situs date shall be
determined in accordance with the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   When any person sells or otherwise transfers title to a motor vehicle
or trailer with a situs in the county after the tax day or date upon which it
acquires a situs, the tax shall be relieved, prorated on a monthly basis, and
the appropriate amount of tax already paid shall be (i) refunded or (ii)
credited against the tax due on any motor vehicle or trailer owned by the
taxpayer during the same tax year by the County Treasurer. Such refund shall be
made within 30 days of the date such tax is relieved. No refund of less than $5
shall be issued to a taxpayer, unless specifically requested by the taxpayer.
No refund shall be made if the motor vehicle or trailer acquires a situs within
the Commonwealth in a nonprorating locality.
   (C)   When any person, after the tax day, acquires a motor vehicle or
trailer with a situs in the county, the tax shall be assessed on the motor
vehicle or trailer for the portion of the tax year during which the new owner
owns the motor vehicle or trailer and it has a situs within the county.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who moves from a nonprorating locality to a prorating
locality in a single tax year shall be entitled to a property tax credit in the
prorating jurisdiction if:
         (a)   The person was liable for personal property taxes on a motor
vehicle and has paid those taxes to a nonprorating locality; and
         (b)   The owner replaces for any reason the original vehicle upon
which taxes are due to the nonprorating locality for the same tax year.
      (2)   The prorating locality shall provide a credit against the total tax
due on the replacement vehicle in an amount equal to the tax paid to the
nonprorating locality for the period of time commencing with the disposition of
the original vehicle and continuing through the close of the tax year in which
the owner incurred tax liability to the nonprorating locality for the original
vehicle.
   (E)   Any person who fails to pay personal property taxes on or before the
date due shall incur a penalty as provided in §
33.999, shall be subject to payment of interest, administrative fees and
attorneys fees as provided in §
33.009 hereof.
   (F)   The Treasurer of Northampton County may, on or after December 15 of
each year, bill all personal property taxes assessed for a portion of the tax
year less than the full year which have not been otherwise billed. Taxes so
billed shall be due no later than 30 days after the date of the tax bill.
(Ord. passed 4-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 10-13-1998; Am. Ord. passed 1-25-1999;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.006 BANK FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BANK. As defined in VA Code § 58.1-1201.
      NET CAPITAL. A bank’s net capital computed pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-
1205.
   (B)   Imposition of county bank franchise tax.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of VA Code Title 58.1, there is imposed
upon each bank located outside any incorporated town but otherwise within the
boundaries of this county a tax on net capital equaling 80% of the state rate
of taxation set forth in VA Code § 58.1-1204, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   In the event that any bank located within the boundaries of this
county but outside any incorporated town located herein and is not the
principal office but is a branch extension or affiliate of the principal
office, the tax upon such branch shall be apportioned as provided by VA Code §
58.1-1211.
   (C)   Filing of return and payment of tax.
      (1)   On or after January 1 of each year, but not later than March 1 of
any such year, all banks whose principal offices are located within this county
but outside any incorporated town herein shall prepare and file with the
Commissioner of the Revenue a return as provided by VA Code § 58.1-1207 in
duplicate, which shall set forth the tax on net capital computed pursuant to VA
Code Title 58.1, Chapter 12. The Commissioner of the Revenue shall certify such
returns and transmit such certified copy to the State Department of Taxation.
      (2)   In the event that the principal office of a bank is located outside
the boundaries of this county or within this county, in addition to the filing
requirements set forth above, any bank conducting such branch business shall
file with the Commissioner of the Revenue of this county a copy of the real
estate deduction, apportionment and other items which are required by VA Code
§§ 58.1-1211, 58.1-1212 and 58.1-1213.
      (3)   Each bank, on or before June 1 of each year, shall pay into the
Treasurer’s office of this county all taxes imposed pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to comply. Any bank which shall fail or neglect to
comply with any provisions of this section shall be subject to a penalty of 5%
of the tax due.
(Ord. passed 4-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.007 FAILURE TO FILE CERTAIN TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   The annual tax return of tangible personal property, machinery and
tools and merchant’s capital and business equipment in the county shall be
filed on forms as prescribed by the Commissioner of the Revenue, not later than
May 1 of each year.
   (B)   Failure to file as required the return referred to in division (A) of
this section shall, if such return reports or should report machinery and tools
or merchant’s capital and business equipment, result in a penalty of 10% of the
tax assessable on such return or $10, whichever is greater; provided, however,
that the penalty shall in no case exceed the amount of the tax assessable. Such
penalty for failure to file a return, when so assessed, shall become a part of
the tax.
   (C)   The Commissioner of the Revenue shall waive the penalty provided for
herein if the failure to file the return was in no way the fault of the
taxpayer or was the fault of the Commissioner of the Revenue or the Treasurer
as the case may be.
(Ord. passed 11-6-2000)
§ 33.008 LICENSE TAX UPON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to authority contained in VA Code §
46.2-752, as amended.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby assessed and levied a license tax fee of $33 per
year upon motor vehicles normally garaged, stored or parked in Northampton
County and used upon the public roadways of Northampton County, Virginia, which
the motor vehicle is not otherwise exempted hereby; provided, however, that the
amount of such license tax fee shall not be greater than the amount of the
license tax imposed by the Commonwealth on any such motor vehicle.
      (2)   There is hereby assessed and levied a license tax fee of $18 per
year upon every trailer, including but not limited to boat trailers, utility
trailers, horse trailers, camper trailers, and homemade trailers, normally
garaged, stored or parked in Northampton County and used upon the public
roadways of Northampton County, Virginia, which said trailer is not otherwise
exempted hereby; provided, however, that the amount of such license tax fee
shall not be greater than the amount of the license tax imposed by the
Commonwealth on such trailer.
      (3)   License tax fees assessed as described in divisions (B)(1) and (2)
of this section are non-refundable and not transferable from one vehicle to
another.
   (C)   The imposition of this license fee and tax shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Motor vehicles of owners who are required to pay a similar license
fee and tax imposed by a county, city or town not located in Northampton
County, provided that the owner is a resident of the other county, city or
town.
      (2)   Motor vehicles owned by a nonresident of Northampton County and
used exclusively for pleasure or personal transportation and not for hire or
for the conduct of any business or occupation other than that set forth in
division (C)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Motor vehicles owned by a nonresident of Northampton County and
used for transporting into and within Northampton County, for sale in person or
by the employees of the owner, of wood, meats, poultry, fruits, flowers,
vegetables, milk, butter, cream or eggs produced or grown by such owner, and
not purchased by the owner for sale.
      (4)   Motor vehicles owned by an officer or employee of the Commonwealth
of Virginia who is a nonresident of Northampton County and who uses the vehicle
owned by him or her in the performance of his or her duties for the
Commonwealth under an agreement for such use.
      (5)   Motor vehicles kept by a dealer or manufacturer for sale or for
sales demonstration.
      (6)   Motor vehicles operated by a common carrier of persons or property
operating between cities and towns in this Commonwealth and not in intracity
transportation or between cities and towns on the one hand and points and
places without cities and towns on the other and not in intracity
transportation.
      (7)   Motor vehicles, trailers, or semi-trailers which are inoperable and
unlicensed pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-734.
      (8)   Motor vehicles which are daily rental vehicles, as defined in VA
Code § 58.1-2401, the rental of which is subject to the tax imposed by VA Code
§ 58.1-2402 A.4.
      (9)   Motor vehicles owned and used personally by either:
         (a)   Any veteran who holds a current state motor vehicle registration
card establishing that he or she has received a disabled veteran’s exemption
from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles and has been issued a disabled
veteran’s motor vehicle license plate as prescribed in VA Code § 46.2-739; or
         (b)   Qualified disabled veteran (limit of one vehicle) pursuant to VA
Code § 58.1-3506A(19) and B.
Satisfactory evidence that all personal property taxes owed upon such motor
vehicle have been paid in a timely manner must be provided to the County
Treasurer prior to exemption of any motor vehicle license tax under this
division.
      (10)   Vehicles owned solely by members of the county’s volunteer fire
departments and volunteer rescue squads as defined under an incentive-based
performance measurement program as adopted by the Northampton County Board of
Supervisors. No member shall be exempted from the payment of the license tax
for more than one vehicle.
      (11)   Vehicles issued antique license plates in accordance with VA Code
§ 46.2-730.
   (D)   If any incorporated town located in Northampton County imposes license
fees and taxes under VA Code § 46.2-752, upon motor vehicles of owners resident
in such town, then the owner of any such vehicles subject to such fees and
taxes shall be entitled, upon such owner displaying evidence that he or she has
paid the amount of such fees and taxes, to receive a credit on the license fees
or taxes imposed by Northampton County under this section to the extent of the
fees or taxes he or she has paid to such incorporated town.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the license year shall extend from
January 1, beginning with the year 2009, and extend through December 31 of the
next succeeding calendar year.
   (F)   After a motor vehicle or trailer has been assessed for personal
property tax purposes by the Commissioner of the Revenue, or registered with
and assessed by the Commissioner of the Revenue for personal property tax
purposes, the County Treasurer shall mail the taxpayer a bill for the license
fee for the current and each subsequent year. The license tax fee shall be
listed as a separate item on each year’s annual and supplemental personal
property tax bills, which payment shall be due on or before December 5 or as
indicated on the tax bill. Failure to pay the license tax fee by December 5, or
by whatever date is indicated on the tax bill, will result in a penalty fee of
$5 per motor vehicle or trailer.
   (G)   The revenue derived from the tax levied hereunder shall be paid into
the General Revenue Fund of Northampton County and applied to general county
purposes.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled or designed for
self-propulsion, together with trailers and semi-trailers.
      OWNER. A person who holds a legal title of a vehicle.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-11-2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011;
Am. Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 33.009 PENALTIES AND FEES IMPOSED ON DELINQUENT TAXPAYERS TO COVER
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS AND REASONABLE ATTORNEY’S FEES ASSOCIATED WITH COLLECTION
OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   (A)   Penalty for delinquent payment.
      (1)   The penalty for failure to pay a tax or installation when due shall
be 10% of the tax past due on such property or the sum of $10, whichever is
greater; provided, however, that the penalty shall in no case exceed the amount
of tax due.
      (2)   Penalty for failure to pay any tax may be assessed on the day after
the tax or first installment is due.
      (3)   No penalty for failure to pay any tax shall be imposed for any
assessment made later than two weeks prior to the day on which the taxes are
due, if the assessment is made thereafter through the fault of a local
official, and if the assessment is paid within two weeks after the notice
thereof is mailed.
   (B)   Administrative costs and fees.
      (1)   Administrative costs in addition to all taxes and penalties, shall
be imposed at the rate of $30 for taxes or other charges collected 30 days
after final notice of delinquency but before any judgment, and $35 for taxes
collected subsequent to judgment. If the collection activity is to collect on a
nuisance abatement lien, the fee for administrative costs shall be $150 or 25%
of the cost, whichever is less; however, in no event shall the fee be less than
$25. Such administrative costs shall be in addition to all penalties and
interest.
      (2)   Attorney's or collection agency's fees shall be 20% of the
delinquent taxes or other charges so collected. Attorney's or collection agency
fees shall be added if the matter has been given to an attorney or collection
agency for collection.
      (3)   No tax assessment or tax bill shall be deemed delinquent and
subject to the imposition of administrative costs and collection fees during
the pendency of any administrative appeal under VA Code § 58.1-3980, so long as
the appeal is filed within 90 days of the date of assessment and 30 days after
the date of the final determination of the appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-14-2003; Am. Ord. passed 7-16-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.010 BIENNIAL REASSESSMENT OF REAL ESTATE.
   The next biennial reassessment shall take effect January 1, 2026. The
Commissioner of the Revenue's Office shall be directed by the Board of
Supervisors to commence this process forthwith, and the same shall be
instructed to continue with this biennial process in the future unless
otherwise directed by the Board.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2025)
§ 33.011 NASSAWADOX CREEK SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Name of service district. The service district to be created hereunder
shall be known as "Nassawadox Creek Service District."
   (B)   Boundaries of service district. The Nassawadox Creek Service District
shall encompass all those properties having frontage along Nassawadox Creek,
including its tributaries, such as, but not limited to, Warehouse Creek and
Church Creek.
   (C)   Purpose of service district. Due to severe shoaling at the mouth of
Nassawadox Creek, watermen no longer have free access to the channel. Shoaling
has seriously limited existing operations, restricting commercial fishing and
shellfish industries. Smaller vessels still using the creek must time tides to
access the channel. Vessels must travel to Cape Charles or Accomack County for
fuel. Accordingly, the Board of Supervisors finds that it is necessary and
desirable to dredge certain portions of Nassawadox Creek. The purpose of the
Nassawadox Creek Service District shall be to serve as a means by which the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors can assess and collect funds from
property owners who will directly benefit from the dredging of Nassawadox Creek
in order to fund the county’s portion of the cost of the dredging of Nassawadox
Creek.
   (D)   Proposed plan for the service district. Prior to any dredging, a study
of Nassawadox Creek will be made to determine the optimum places to dredge and
appropriate sites to dispose of the dredge spoil. The U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers will provide the initial dredging of Nassawdox Creek. The Corps will
also provide periodic maintenance dredging (no more than every six years) of
Nassawadox Creek once the initial dredging is completed. The area to be dredged
will be approximately six feet deep; 60 feet wide; and 2,000 feet long. Dredged
material will be used in an environmentally beneficial way to mitigate erosion
on nearby beaches. The channel will be marked by the U.S. Coast Guard following
completion of construction.
   (E)   Benefits to be expected.
      (1)   Residents within the Nassawadox Creek Service District can expect
to enjoy increased access to the Chesapeake due to the dredging.
      (2)   Commercial watermen/aquaculturalists will be able to pursue their
industry with freer access to the channel through reduction of shoaling as
detailed in the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Dredging will provide safer, less restricted navigation for shallow
draft residential/commercial vessels.
      (4)   Real property values as well as local economy and tax base will be
positively affected. The dredging will reduce adverse effects to the ecosystems
in the creek. The dredging will provide fuel sources in the Nassawadox Creek,
eliminating the necessity of traveling to Cape Charles and Accomack County
facilities.
      (5)   Dredging will encourage homeowners to house watercraft vessels in
the creek.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2002)
§ 33.012 DELINQUENT REAL ESTATE TAXES ISSUED BEFORE SPECIAL USE PERMITS,
VARIANCES, REZONING OR OTHER LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority contained in VA Code § 15.2-2286, as amended,
the Northampton County Board of Supervisors adopts this section.
   (B)   No administrative officer or employee of Northampton County shall
accept or approve an application by the owner of the subject property, the
owner's agent, or any entity in which the owner holds an ownership interest
greater than 50% for a special exception, special use permit, variance,
rezoning or other land disturbing permit, including building permits and
erosion and sediment control permits, or prior to the issuance of final
approval, until and unless the applicant has provided satisfactory evidence
that any delinquent real estate taxes, nuisance charges, stormwater management
utility fees, and any other charges that constitute a lien on the subject
property, that are owed to the Northampton County and have been properly
assessed against the subject property, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2003; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 33.013 COUNTY RECORDATION TAX.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the county shall impose a county
recordation tax an amount equal to one-third of the amount of the state
recordation tax collectable for the state on the first recordation of each
taxable instrument; provided, no tax shall be imposed under this section upon
any instrument in which the state recordation tax is $0.50 specifically; and
provided further, that where a deed or other instrument conveys, covers or
relates to property located partly in the county and partly in another county
or city, or in other counties or cities, the tax imposed under the authority of
this section shall be computed only with respect to the property located in the
county.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county collecting the tax
imposed under this section the Clerk shall be compensated out of the treasury
of the county. For his services in collecting the tax imposed under this
section the Clerk shall be compensated out of the treasury of the county in the
amount of 5% of the county recordation tax imposed upon each instrument taxable
under division (A) recorded in his office. Such compensation shall be paid out
of the county treasury.
   (C)   By the Board of Supervisors of the county, there is hereby imposed a
county tax on the probate of every will or grant of administration by the
Circuit Court of the county or by the Clerk thereof, in an amount equal to one-
third the amount of the state tax on such probate of a will or grant of
administration. Pursuant to VA Code §§ 58.1-1718 and 58.1-3805, a $25 fee shall
be charged on the recordation of a list of heirs pursuant to VA Code § 64.1-134
or an affidavit pursuant to VA Code § 64.1-135 unless a will had been probated
for the decedent or there has been a grant of administration on the decedent's
estate. The tax and fee provided for herein shall be in addition to any other
fees prescribed by law.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county collecting the tax
imposed under division (C) shall pay the same into the Treasurer of the county.
For his or her services in collecting the tax imposed by this section, the
Clerk shall be compensated out of the treasury in the amount of 5% of the
county probate or grant of administration tax imposed under this section. Such
compensation shall be paid out of the county treasury.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 8-9-2011)
§ 33.014 PROPERTY TAX ORDER OF PAYMENT.
   All payments of local levies received shall be credited first against the
most delinquent local account, the collection of which is not subject to a
defense of an applicable statute of limitations.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Am. Ord. passed 11-15- 2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.015 COMMUNITY REVITALIZATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. There is hereby created a community
revitalization fund as authorized by VA Code § 15.2-958.5 for the purpose of
preventing neighborhood deterioration in the county. The Fund shall utilize
money appropriated by the Board of Supervisors as it shall deem necessary and
proper.
   (B)   Use of funds. The Revitalization Fund may be used to:
      (1)   Make loans or grants to nonprofit organizations, for-profit
companies, and government agencies for the construction, renovation, or
demolition of residential structures in the county;
      (2)   Fund infrastructure improvements; and
      (3)   Acquire blighted structures.
   (C)   Administration. The County Administrator is authorized to develop
grant and loan revitalization programs including establishing:
      (1)   Qualifying income guidelines for participants if needed and deemed
appropriate;
      (2)   Community health and housing standards to determine need for
revitalization; and
      (3)   Criteria for participation by nonprofit organizations, for-profit
companies, and government agencies. The programs will be administered and
implemented by the Northampton County Joint Economic Development Authority.
   (D)   Approval of Fund programs. The County Administrator shall present each
revitalization program to the Board of Supervisors for approval and
appropriation of funds, if necessary, prior to implementation of the program.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2025)
§ 33.016 DUE DATE OF REAL ESTATE TAXES; WHEN SAME DEEMED DELINQUENT; PENALTY
FOR FAILURE TO PAY TAXES WHEN DUE; INTEREST.
   (A)   All taxes assessed on real estate within the territorial boundaries of
the county subject to taxation for county purposes under the Constitution and
the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, shall be due and payable to the
County Treasurer, without discount, on or before December 5 of the year in
which assessed.
   (B)   Penalties and interest, administrative cost, attorney's and collection
fees.
      (1)   Penalties. To all real estate taxes that may be delinquent, there
shall be added as of the date of delinquency and collected as a part thereof
penalties as provided in §
33.009.
      (2)   Interest. In addition to such penalties, interest shall be imposed
on such delinquent taxes including penalties from the first day following the
day such tax installment is due at the rate of 10% per year; and thereafter at
the rate 10% or the rate of interest established from time to time pursuant to
section 6621 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Effective date. The effective date of this ordinance shall be April
28, 2015.
(Ord. passed 4-27-2015)
EXEMPTIONS
§ 33.025 EXEMPTING FROM TAXATION CERTAIN HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND PERSONAL EFFECTS.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to authority contained in
VA Code § 58.1-3504, as amended.
   (B)   Exemption. Those certain classes of household goods and personal
effects specified in VA Code § 58.1-3504, as amended, are exempted in whole
from taxation.
(Ord. passed 2-12-1979)
§ 33.026 EXEMPTING FROM TAXATION CERTAIN CLASSES OF FARM ANIMALS, GRAINS AND
FEES USED FOR THE NURTURE OF FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to authority contained in
VA Code § 58.1-3504, as amended.
   (B)   Exempt classes. The following classes are exempt in whole from
taxation as farm animals, grain and feeds used for the nurture of farm animals,
farm machinery and farm implements:
      (1)   Horses, mules and other kindred animals;
      (2)   Cattle;
      (3)   Sheep and goats;
      (4)   Hogs;
      (5)   Poultry; and
      (6)   Grains and other feeds used for the nurture of farm animals.
   (C)   Non-exempt classes. Nothing contained herein is intended to exempt
from local taxation farm machinery and farm implements.
(Ord. passed 2-12-1979)
§ 33.027 EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION OF REAL ESTATE OF CERTAIN ELDERLY OR
HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMISSIONER OF THE REVENUE. Commissioner of the Revenue of the County of
Northampton, Virginia or any of his duly authorized deputies or agents.
      DWELLING. The full-time residence of the person or persons seeking the
exemption.
      ELIGIBLE PERSON.
         (a)   A person who is at least age 65 or permanently and totally
disabled. Under this section, real property owned and occupied as the sole
dwelling of an eligible person includes real property:
            1.   Held by the eligible person alone or in conjunction with his
spouse as tenant or tenants for life or joint lives,
            2.   Held in a revocable inter vivos trust over which the eligible
person or the eligible person and his spouse hold the power of revocation, or
            3.   Held in an irrevocable trust under which an eligible person
alone or in conjunction with his spouse possesses a life estate or an estate
for joint lives or enjoys a continuing right of use or support.
         (b)   The term ELIGIBLE PERSON does not include any interest held
under a leasehold or term of years.
      EXEMPTION. Exemption from the county real estate tax according to the
provisions of this section.
      NET COMBINED FINANCIAL WORTH. All assets of the owners of the dwelling
who reside therein, and of the spouse of any such owners, including equitable
interests, excluding the value of the dwelling and the land in an amount not to
exceed one acre upon which it is situated. For determination of value of real
estate properties, the fair market value shall be used.
      PERMANENTLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED. Unable to engage in any substantial
gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment or deformity which can be expected to result in death or can be
expected to last for the duration of such person’s life.
      PROPERTY. Real property.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year, from January 1 through December 31,
inclusive, for which exemption is sought.
      TOTAL COMBINED INCOME . Total income from all sources of the owners of
the dwelling residing therein and of any relative of the owners who reside in
the dwelling, except for those relatives living in the dwelling and providing
bona fide caregiving services to the owner whether such relatives are
compensated or not. However, if a person has already qualified for exemption
under this section, and if the person can prove by clear and convincing
evidence that after so qualifying the person’s physical or mental health has
deteriorated to the point that the only alternative to permanently residing in
a hospital, nursing home, convalescent home or other facility for physical or
mental care is to have a relative move in and provide care for the person, and
if a relative does then move in for that purpose, then none of the relative’s
income shall be counted towards the income limit.
      TREASURER or COUNTY TREASURER. Treasurer of the County of Northampton,
Virginia, or any of his duly authorized deputies or agents.
   (B)   Administration. The exemption shall be administered by the Commission
of the Revenue or his authorized delegate according to the general provisions
contained in this section. The Commissioner is authorized and empowered to
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations, including the requirements
of answers under oath, as may be reasonably necessary to determine
qualifications for exemption. The Commissioner may require reproduction of
certified tax returns and appraisal reports to establish income and financial
worth.
   (C)   Eligibility for exemption. Exemption shall be granted to persons
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   The title to the property for which exemption is sought is held or
partially held, on December 31, immediately proceeding the taxable year by the
person or persons seeking the exemption. If the ownership of the property for
which application for exemption is made is not held solely by the applicant or
jointly with the applicant’s spouse, then the amount of the tax exemption
hereunder shall be in proportion to the applicant’s ownership interest in the
subject real property, as the ownership interest may appear;
      (2)   The head of the household occupying the dwelling and owning title
or partial title hereto is 65 years or older on December 31 of the year,
immediately proceeding the taxable year. Such dwelling must be occupied as the
sole dwelling of the person or persons seeking the exemption;
      (3)   The total combined income of the owners during the year immediately
preceding the taxable year shall be determined by the Commissioner of the
Revenue to be an amount not to exceed $57,500. Total combined income shall
include income from all sources of the owners, spouses, and of the owners
relatives living in the dwelling for which exemption is claimed; provided,
however, that the first $3,450 of annual income of the owners’ relatives living
in the dwelling other than the spouse’s shall be excluded in computing total
combined income;
      (4)   The net combined financial worth as of December 31 of the year
immediately preceding the taxable year of the owners and of the spouse of any
owner shall be determined by the Commissioner of the Revenue to be an amount
not to exceed $115,000. Net combined financial worth shall include the value of
all assets, including equitable interest of the owners and the spouse of any
owner, excluding the fair market value of the dwelling and the land, not to
exceed one acre, upon which it is situated and for which exemption is claimed;
      (5)   The levies against the property seeking relief be current and that
the levy for the year the relief is granted be paid timely.
   (D)   Application for exemption.
       (1)   Annually after January 1, and before April 15 of the taxable year,
the person or persons claiming exemption shall file with the Commissioner of
the Revenue, on forms supplied by such Commissioner of the Revenue, an
affidavit under oath and subject to the penalties of perjury, setting forth the
location and assessed value of the property and the names of all the related
persons occupying such real estate; the total combined income of the persons as
specified in division (C)(3) above; and the net combined financial worth of the
persons as specified in division (C)(3) above. If such person is under 65 years
of age, such form shall have attached thereto a confirmation by the Social
Security Administration, the Veterans’ Administration, or the Railroad
Retirement Board, or if such person is not eligible for certification by any of
these agencies, a sworn affidavit by two medical doctors licensed to practice
medicine in the Commonwealth, to the effect that such person is permanently and
totally disabled, as herein defined. The affidavit of at least one of such
doctors shall be based upon a physical examination of such person by said
doctor. For Tax Year 2022, there shall be a second application window between
July 27, 2022 and August 31, 2022 to be considered using the higher exemption
levels adopted by the Board of Supervisors on July 26, 2022. Applications
received during the first Tax Year 2022 window (January 1, 2022 - February 28,
2022), shall be considered using the most recently-adopted exemption levels.
For Tax Year 2025, the application deadline shall be May 30, 2025.
      (2)   The affidavit of one of the doctors may be based upon medical
information contained in the records of the Civil Services Commission which is
relevant to the standards for determining permanent and total disability as
herein defined. The Commissioner of the Revenue shall also make such further
inquiry of persons seeking exemption requiring answers under oath as may be
reasonably necessary to determine qualifications therefor, including
qualifications as permanently and totally disabled. The Commissioner of the
Revenue is authorized to require the reproduction of certified tax returns to
establish the income or financial worth of any applicant for exemption from tax
hereunder.
      (3)   If, after audit and investigation, the Commissioner of the Revenue
determines that the person or persons are qualified for exemption he or she
shall so certify the same, and shall determine the percentage of exemption
allowable and issue non-negotiable exemption certificates in the amount of the
exemption determined to be applicable to the claimant’s real estate tax
liability.
      (4)   Such exemption certificate shall apply only to the tax year for
which issued. The person or persons to whom an exemption certificate has been
issued shall, on or before the past due date established for payment of such
real estate tax, present such exemption certificate to the Treasurer, together
with payment of the difference between such exemption and the full amount of
the tax payment due on the property for which the exemption was issued. Any
exemption certificate not presented in settlement of such taxes on or before
the date specified for payment shall be null and void and unusable thereafter
and the Commissioner of the Revenue may not reissue a certificate for such tax
year.
      (5)   An exemption certificate may be renewed by the Commissioner of
Revenue annually for two years, provided the person holding the exemption files
an affidavit, under oath and subject to the penalties of perjury, that no
information contained it the last preceding affidavit or written statement has
changed.
   (E)   Exempt schedule.
      (1)   Where the person or persons seeking exemption conforms to the
standards and does not exceed the limitations contained herein, the real estate
tax exemption shall be as shown on the following schedule:
 
                               Total Combined Income From All
Total Combined Income From All Sources (14.98% or 15% rounded > Tax Exemption
Sources (Current)              to mirror SS. Adj. from 2023 -
                               2025) (Proposed)
$0 - $20,000                   $0 - $23,000                     90%
$20,001 - $30,000              $23,001 - $34,500                80%
$30,001 - $40,000              $34,501 - $46,000                60%
$40,001 - $50,000              $46,001 - $57,500                40%
 
      (2)   Provided, however, that the maximum annual exemption on any one
property shall not exceed $1,150.
   (F)   Additional provisions.
      (1)   The fact that persons who are otherwise qualified for tax exemption
are residing in hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent homes or other
facilities for physical or mental care for extended periods of time shall not
be construed to mean that the real estate for which the exemption is sought
does not continue to be the sole dwelling of such person/ persons during such
extended periods of other residence so long as such real estate is not used by
or leased to others for consideration.
      (2)   Changes in respect to income, financial worth, ownership of
property or other factors occurring during the taxable year for which the
affidavit is filed and having the effect of exceeding or violating the
limitations and conditions provided in this section shall nullify any exemption
for the then current tax year immediately following.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a mobile home shall be real estate if
the owner’s intention that it be permanently affixed is shown by the facts
that:
         (a)   It is located on land belonging in whole or in part to the owner
of the mobile home, his spouse, parent or child, and is connected to permanent
water and sewer lines or facilities; or
         (b)   Whether or not it is located on land belonging to persons
described in subsection (a), it rests on a permanent foundation, and consists
of two or more mobile units which are connected in such a manner that they
cannot be towed together on a highway or consists of a mobile unit and other
connected rooms or additions which must be removed before the mobile unit can
be towed on a highway.
(Ord. passed 5-23-2001; Am. Ord. passed 8-20-2003; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-05;
Am. Ord. passed 1-11-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-
2013; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Am. Ord. passed 7-26-2022; Am. Ord. passed 2-
25-2025)
§ 33.028 TAX EXEMPTION FOR REHABILITATED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section,
unless another meaning shall clearly appear from the text.
      QUALIFIED STRUCTURE. Any residential structure not less than 15 years of
age. Such structure may be for either single-family or multi-family use.
Replacement structures may exceed the total square footage of the replaced
structures by no more than 30%.
      SUBSTANTIALLY REHABILITATED RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. Any residential real
estate upon which there is an existing structure not less than 15 years of age
which has been improved so as to increase the assessed value of the structure
by no less than 60%.
   (B)   Amount of exemption.
      (1)   The partial exemption for substantially rehabilitated residential
real estate shall be an amount equal to the increase in assessed value
resulting from the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement of the structure.
      (2)   The exemption shall commence on January 1 of the year following
completion of the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement and shall run with
the real estate for a period of ten years. No further exemption shall be
granted for increases in assessed value caused by the rehabilitation
improvements as determined by subsequent general reassessments for any other
assessments made during the ten years.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as to permit the
Commissioner of the Revenue to list upon the land book any reduced value due to
the exemption herein provided.
      (4)   Work must be completed within two years from the date of this
application. No exemption shall be granted if more than two years elapse
between the date of the preliminary appraisal and the date that the
Commissioner of the Revenue is notified in writing of the work completion.
      (5)   That all tax levies on the property seeking the exemption be
current and that the levy for the year/years that the relief is granted be paid
timely.
   (C)   Application procedure. The procedure for the application and creation
of exemptions under this section shall be as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to the commencement of any construction, remodeling,
reconstruction, rehabilitation or other like work on a qualified structure, the
owner shall file with the Commissioner of Revenue an application on a form
approved by the Commissioner of Revenue. This application shall be filed prior
to January 1 of the year for which the exemption is claimed.
         (b)   A fee of $125 shall be paid to the county for processing the
application.
      (2)   (a)   Upon the receipt of a completed application and satisfactory
evidence that the applicant has obtained the necessary county building or other
permits, the Commissioner of Revenue or the designated agent shall visit,
inspect and photograph the qualified structure and make an assessment of the
building’s value prior to rehabilitation.
         (b)   Such inspection shall be at a reasonable time to be arranged
with the applicant.
   (D)   Historic properties. Where rehabilitation is achieved through
demolition and replacement of an existing structure, the exemption provided
herein shall not apply when any structure demolished is a registered Virginia
landmark or is determined by the Department of Historic Resources to contribute
to the significance of a registered historic district.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 1-11-06)
§ 33.029 RANDY CUSTIS MEMORIAL FUND; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The Randy Custis Memorial Fund (Fund) has 501(C) tax exemption.
   (B)   The Fund does not serve alcohol.
   (C)   The Fund is a 100% volunteer organization. There are no paid staff or
directors.
   (D)   The Fund provides services for the common good of the public by
providing a safe facility for the Shore’s youth to participate in baseball,
softball, football and other sports.
   (E)   The Fund is open to all of the youth of the Shore and does not
discriminate on the basis of religious conviction, race, color, sex or national
origin.
   (F)   There would be little or no impact to the locality and its taxpayers
of exempting the property of the Fund.
   (G)   The Fund is exempt as a “Public Park and Playground.”
   (H)   The properties of the Randy Custis Memorial Fund so affected by this
section are as follows:
      (1)   Tax Map 021 A1-((02))-00-035A;
      (2)   Tax Map 021A2-((0A))-00-079; and
      (3)   Tax Map 021 A2-((13))-00-000E.
   (I)   This section shall take effect upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2003)
§ 33.030 REAL ESTATE TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the real estate tax abatement program
(hereinafter, "the program") is to provide a financial incentive for a citizen,
who owns property on which a derelict building stands, to improve the
appearance of said property by either demolishing or renovating the derelict
building.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DERELICT BUILDING. A residential or nonresidential building or structure,
whether or not construction has been completed, that might endanger the
public's health, safety, or welfare and which, for a continuous period of six
months, has been:
         (a)   Vacant;
         (b)   Boarded up in accordance with the building code; and
         (c)   Not lawfully connected to electric service from a utility
service provider or not lawfully connected to any required water or sewer
service from a utility service provider.
   (C)   Procedure for participation.
      (1)   Prior to commencement of a plan to demolish or renovate a derelict
building, at the request of a property owner, the commissioner of revenue shall
make an assessment of the property in its current derelict condition.
      (2)   On the building permit application, the owner shall declare the
costs of demolition or the costs of materials and labor to complete the
renovation.
      (3)   Upon the additional request of the property owner after demolition
or renovation of the derelict building, the Commissioner of Revenue shall
determine the fair market value of the demolition costs, or the fair market
value of the renovation improvements, and shall reflect such costs or value in
the real estate tax assessment records.
   (D)   Abatement of tax. The real estate tax on an amount equal to the costs
of demolition or an amount equal to the increase in the fair market value of
the renovations shall be abated for 15 years, such abatement being transferable
with the property.
   (E)   Exclusions. The abatement of taxes for demolition shall not apply if
the structure demolished is a registered Virginia landmark or is determined by
the Department of Historic Resources to contribute to the significance of a
registered historic district.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
Cross reference:
   Demolition of derelict buildings, see §
94.03
§ 33.031 REAL ESTATE TAX EXEMPTION FOR REHABILITATED COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section,
unless another meaning shall clearly appear from the text.
      QUALIFIED STRUCTURE. Any commercial or industrial structure not less than
20 years of age, or 15 years of age if the structure is located in an area
designated as an enterprise zone by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
      SUBSTANTIALLY REHABILITATED COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL REAL ESTATE. Any
commercial or industrial real estate upon which there is an existing structure
not less than 20 years of age or 15 years of age which has been improved so as
to increase the assessed value of the structure by no less than 60%.
   (B)   Amount of exemption.
      (1)   The exemption for substantially rehabilitated commercial or
industrial real estate shall be an amount equal to the dollar amount increase
in assessed value resulting from the rehabilitation of the qualified structure
as determined by the Commissioner of Revenue. This exemption shall only be
applicable to any subsequent assessment or reassessment and shall commence on
January 1 of the year following completion of the rehabilitation.
      (2)   The exemption provided above shall run with the real estate for a
period of ten years. No further exemption shall be granted for increases in
assessed value caused by the rehabilitation improvements as determined by
subsequent general reassessments for any other assessments made during the ten
years.
      (3)   Work should be completed within two years from the date of this
application. However, the Commissioner of the Revenue, at his/her discretion,
shall be empowered to grant not more than two one-year extensions based on the
circumstances for each particular application. No exemption shall be granted if
more than four years elapse between the date of the preliminary appraisal and
the date that the Commissioner of the Revenue is notified in writing of the
work completion. If the applicant disagrees with the Commissioner of the
Revenue's decision to deny an extension, they may appeal the denial to the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors.
      (4)   That all tax levies on the property seeking the exemption be
current and that the levy for the year/years that the relief is granted be paid
timely.
   (C)   Application procedure. The procedure for the application and creation
of exemptions under this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   Prior to the commencement of any construction, remodeling,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, or other like work on a qualified structure,
the owner shall file with the Commissioner of Revenue an application on a form
approved by the Commissioner of Revenue. This application shall be filed prior
to January 1 of the year for which the exemption is claimed. A fee of $250
shall be paid to the county for processing the application.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of a completed application and satisfactory
evidence that the applicant has obtained the necessary county building or other
permits, the Commissioner of Revenue or the designated agent shall visit,
inspect, and photograph the qualified structure and make an assessment of the
building's value prior to rehabilitation. Such inspection shall be at a
reasonable time to be arranged with the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-9-2001; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 1-11-2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2024)
§ 33.032 EXEMPTING FROM TAXATION CERTAIN NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   The following organizations are designated as exempt from county taxation
pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3651 on real and/or personal property as set out
above, nunc pro tunc, with the effective date ot exemption being as follows:
   (A)   Eastern Shore Rural Health System, Inc.: January 1, 2008.
   (B)   Eastern Shore Area Agency on Aging/ Community Action Agency: January
1, 2011.
   (C)   Shore Christian Academy: January 11, 2011.
   (D)   Cape Charles Christian School: May 14, 2010
   (E)   Cape Charles Rosenwald School Restoration Initiative, Inc., January 1,
2019.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2011; Am. Ord. passed 4-12- 2011; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011;
Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2012; Am. Ord. passed 9-10-2019)
TAX ON PURCHASES OF UTILITY SERVICES
§ 33.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL USER. The owner or tenant of property used for
commercial, industrial and all purposes other than residential, including
apartment buildings, who pay for utility service for said property.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations, and
combinations of individuals of whatever form and character.
   PURCHASER. Every person who purchases a utility service.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. The owner or tenant of private residential property who
pays for utility service in or for the property.
   SELLER. Every person, whether a public service corporation or otherwise, who
sells or furnishes a utility service.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Electrical service, and gas service, furnished within the
County of Northampton.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.041 IMPOSITION; RATE; COLLECTION.
   (A)   There is imposed and levied by the county, upon each purchaser of a
utility service, with the exception of electrical service, a tax in the amount
of 20% of the charge, exclusive of any federal tax thereon, made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to each utility service, which tax in every
case shall be collected by the seller from the purchaser and shall be paid by
the purchaser to the seller for the use of the County of Northampton at the
time the purchase price or payment for such charge shall become due and payable
under the agreement between the purchaser and the seller; provided, however,
that in case any monthly bill of a residential user shall exceed $15, no tax
shall be computed on such excess, and in case any monthly bill of a commercial
user shall exceed $100, no tax shall be computed on such excess. In case bills
are submitted by any seller for two months service, no tax shall be computed on
so much of said bill as shall exceed $30 for a residential user or $200 for a
commercial or industrial user. Bills shall be considered monthly bills if
submitted 12 times per year for periods of approximately one month each.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of VA Code § 58.1-3814, all taxes on
consumers of utility services provided by electric utility suppliers are to be
based on kilowatt hours (kwh) delivered, including customer charges.
   (C)   Effective with the first bill for electric energy rendered for meter
readings on or after January 1, 2001, the rate of tax on the electric energy
delivered to an ultimate consumer shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential customer: $0.015 per kilowatt hour (kwh), plus a
minimum tax of $1.40 per month with a maximum tax of $3 per month;
      (2)   Commercial customer: $0.015 per kilowatt hour (kwh) plus a minimum
tax of $1 per month with a maximum tax of $20 per month;
      (3)   Industrial customers: $0.015 per kilowatt hour (kwh) plus a minimum
tax of $1 per month with a maximum charges of $20 per month.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-2000; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.042 COLLECTION; REMISSION; REPORT OF COLLECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agency for the county to collect from the purchaser, for the use of the
county, the tax imposed and levied by §
33.041 at the time of collecting the purchase price charged for a utility
service. The taxes collected during each calendar month shall be reported by
each seller to the Commissioner of the Revenue and each seller shall remit the
amount of tax shown by said report to have been collected to the County
Treasurer on or before the last day of the first calendar month thereafter,
together with the name and address of any purchaser who has refused to pay his
tax. The required reports shall be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner
of the Revenue. The tax levied or imposed under this section with respect to
the purchase of any utility service shall become effective on charges first
appearing on bills rendered on September 1,1980 and thereafter.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.043 SELLER’S RECORDS.
   (A)   Each seller shall keep complete records showing all purchases in the
county, which records shall show the price charged against each purchaser with
respect to each purchase, the date thereof and the date of payment thereof and
the amount of tax imposed hereunder.
   (B)   Such records shall be kept open for inspection by the duly authorized
agents of the county at reasonable times, and the duly authorized agents of the
county shall have the right, power and authority to make transcripts thereof
during such times as they may desire.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 33.044 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions as to governmental agencies. The United States of America,
the State of Virginia, and the political subdivisions, boards, commissions and
authorities thereof are exempted from the payment of the tax imposed and levied
by this section with respect to the purchase of utility services used by such
governmental agencies.
   (B)   Exceptions as to sales of electric utility services for resale. The
tax imposed and levied by § 33.041 shall not apply to sales of electricity
service for resale.
   (C)   Exceptions as to sales of bottled gas. The tax imposed and levied by §
33.041 shall not apply to the purchase of bottled gas.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013)
§ 33.045 FAILURE TO PAY TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Any purchaser failing, refusing or neglecting to pay the tax imposed
or levied by §
33.041 and any seller violating the provisions of this subchapter and any
officer, agent or employee of any seller violating the provisions of this
subchapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than $100.
   (B)   Each failure, refusal, neglect or violation and each days continuance
thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1980; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND SERVICE COMPANIES
§ 33.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY. Any corporation. Such term shall include any trustee, receiver,
assignee, or personal representative thereof carrying on or continuing a
business.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The gross receipts of the company from all earnings,
charges, tolls, fees, commissions, brokerage charges and rentals and from all
income whatsoever arising from or growing out of the conduct of the business
during the calendar year immediately preceding the license tax for which the
tax is being computed, without any deduction whatsoever, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1984)
§ 33.061 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Tax year. The license required herein shall be issued and effective on
a fiscal year basis of July 1 through June 30.
   (B)   Basis for computation of tax. The annual license taxes herein imposed
shall be based on the gross receipts of the company for the calendar year
immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the license is to be issued.
   (C)   Duty of Treasurer. It shall be the duty of the County Treasurer to
collect the license taxes imposed herein.
   (D)   Application for license; filing; contents.
      (1)   All companies embraced by this section shall make application for
licenses to the Commissioner of the Revenue at this office in the County Office
Building. The Commissioner of the Revenue shall furnish the necessary forms
which shall be properly filled in with such information as the Commissioner may
require. The Commissioner shall compute, with the Department of Taxation, if
necessary, the amount of the license tax and, after obtaining a copy of the
Treasurer’s receipt described herein, shall issue a license to the applicant.
      (2)   All licenses shall state the amount assessed and paid, the
privilege to be exercised and the period of time for which the license is
valid.
   (E)   Information to be furnished by applicant. Every applicant for a
license to conduct any business under the provisions of this section shall
furnish the Commissioner of the Revenue, on or before February 15 of each year,
in writing, with its correct name and trade name, its correct address, and a
record of gross receipts, verified by oath, for the past calendar year, as well
as such other information as may be required by law on forms prescribed by the
Commissioner of the Revenue. For the initial tax year, such information shall
be furnished on or before October 15, 1984. In the event of a failure or
refusal to file with the Commissioner of the Revenue the information necessary
to enable him to assess a license tax on the basis provided by law, the
Commissioner of the Revenue shall assess such license tax upon the best
information he can obtain, adding thereto the penalty prescribed by law.
   (F)   When license taxes payable. All license taxes imposed by this section,
except as herein otherwise provided, shall become due and payable on or before
July 15 of each license tax year; except that for the initial tax year, same
shall be due and payable on or before October 31, 1984. In all cases where the
company shall begin the business upon which a license tax is imposed under this
section after July 1 of each license tax year, such license tax shall become
due immediately and payment shall be made within 30 days of the time such
company commences business.
   (G)   Penalty for failure to pay license tax when due.
      (1)   There shall be a penalty of 10% of the sum of the tax added to all
license taxes imposed under the provisions of this section that are unpaid on
the due date of July 15 of each license year; or, in the case of any company
first engaging in a business, profession, trade or occupation after January 1
of each license tax year, the penalty shall be added on the thirty-first day
after it first engages in such business, profession, trade or occupation.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty for failure to pay on time, interest
will accrue on the sum of the tax and penalty at the rate of 10% per annum.
Interest will be computed from the first day following the day on which the tax
was payable. Taxes and penalty herein provided shall be assessed and collected
in the manner provided by law for the enforcement of the collection of taxes.
   (H)   Companies liable for license tax to keep records, report of gross
receipts.
      (1)   Every company liable for a license tax under this section which is
based on gross receipts shall keep all records and accounts necessary to
compute and to verify such gross receipts, and the report of such gross
receipts shall be taken from such records. All such records and general books
of account shall be open to inspection and examination by any authorized
representative of the county and shall be maintained for a period of three
years.
      (2)   Each licensee whose license is measured by gross receipts shall
submit to the Commissioner of the Revenue, not later than February 15 of each
year, a report of its gross receipts for the preceding year.
   (I)   Enforcement.
      (1)   In the enforcement of the provisions of this section, the
Commissioner of the Revenue of the county, in addition to the powers herein
specifically granted, shall have all and the same enforcement authority with
respect to county licenses that state law confers upon Commissioners of the
Revenue generally with respect to state licenses. As one of the means of
ascertaining the amount of any license tax due under the provisions of this
section, or of ascertaining any other pertinent information, the Commissioner
of the Revenue may propound interrogatories to each applicant, through its
officers and agents, and may use such other evidence as he may procure. Such
interrogatories shall be answered under oath, and it shall be unlawful for any
applicant for a county license to refuse to answer any such interrogatories.
      (2)   The Commissioner of the Revenue of the county and his deputy or
deputies shall have such duties, authority and power with respect to the
enforcement of the provisions of this section as may be conferred by the Board
of Supervisors.
      (3)   The Commissioner of the Revenue or his duly qualified deputy or
deputies shall have the power to summon any such officer or agent of such
company, by registered letter or otherwise, to appear before him at his office
at a time to be specified in such summons and to answer, under oath, questions
touching the taxpayer’s license tax liability. Failure of such officer or agent
of such company to answer such summons without good cause or failing or
refusing to answer under oath questions touching its tax liability shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable as provided by division (J) of this section. The
Commissioner of the Revenue or his duly qualified deputy or deputies, after the
herein above set out powers of enforcement have been exhausted, shall have the
added power to proceed by warrant to enforce compliance with the provisions of
this section.
   (J)   License rewired; compliance; penalty for violation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any company
to conduct a business included herein without a license as required under the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful and constitute a
misdemeanor for any person or company to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter. Any person or company who is convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this subchapter shall, except where some other penalty is
specifically provided be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Each day any person or company shall continue to violate the
provisions of this subchapter after the due date of any license tax prescribed
in this subchapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (K)   Fiscal year 1984/1985 requirements. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary for the fiscal year 1984-85, all applicants conducting any
business on the effective date hereof, subject to the licensing provisions of
this subchapter shall apply for and provide all information required herein to
the Commissioner of the Revenue for such license no later than October 15,
1984, and shall pay the license tax computed no later than October 31, 1984.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1984)
§ 33.062 TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANIES.
   Every company engaged in the business of providing telephone and telegraph
communications in the county shall pay for the privilege an annual license tax
equal to one-half of one percent of the gross receipts during the next
preceding calendar year from business accruing to such company from such
business in the county; provided, however, charges for long distance telephone
calls shall not be considered receipts of business in the county.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1984)
§ 33.063 HEAT, LIGHT, POWER AND GAS COMPANIES.
   Every company furnishing heat, light, power and gas for domestic, commercial
and industrial consumption in the county shall pay for the privilege an annual
license tax equal to one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of such
business derived from within the county during the next preceding calendar
year, excluding such service furnished to other electric utilities for resale.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1984)
§ 33.064 CONFLICTS.
   Should any part of this subchapter be inconsistent with the provisions of VA
Code §§ 58.1-3812 through 58.1-3816.2, as amended, or other provision of law,
then the provisions of said statutory sections shall control, and any necessary
interpretation of this subchapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of
said sections.
(Ord. passed 8-13-1984)
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 33.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Revenue of the County of Northampton,
Virginia.
   HOTEL. Includes but is not limited to any public or private hotel, inn,
apartment hotel, hostelry, tourist home or house, motel, rooming house or other
lodging place within the county offering lodging for compensation to any
transient as hereafter defined.
   LODGING. Includes but is not limited to any space or room furnished any
transient.
   LODGING RENTAL. The total charge, exclusive of any tax imposed on such
charge, made by any hotel for lodging furnished any transient. If the charge
made by any hotel to a transient includes any charge for services or
accommodations in addition to that of lodging, and/or use of space, then such
portion of the total charge as represents only lodging and/or space rental
shall be distinctly set out and billed to such transient by such hotel as a
separate item.
   PERSON. Includes but is not limited to any individual, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, person acting in a representative capacity, or any
group of individuals acting as a unit.
   PRE-PAYMENT. The payment of the full cost of the rental of lodging subject
to this subchapter, including all taxes and fees of every kind imposed by laws
on each and every transient.
   TRANSIENT. The same individual or same group of individuals who, for a
period of not more than 29 consecutive days, either at his own expense or at
the expense of another, obtains lodging or use of space in any hotel or travel
campground for which lodging or use of space a charge is made.
   TRAVEL CAMPGROUND. Any area, site, lot, field or tract of land offering
spaces for recreational vehicles or campsites for transient dwelling purposes
or temporary dwelling during travel, recreational or vacation uses.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.076 TAX LEVY AND RATE.
   There is levied and imposed, in addition to all other taxes and fees of
every kind imposed by laws on each and every transient, a tax equivalent to 5%
of the total amount paid for lodging rental by or for any such transient to any
hotel or travel campground; provided, that any full pre-payments made and
received prior to July 1, 2007 for lodging rentals subject to this subchapter
between July 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007 shall be levied a tax equivalent to
2% of the total amount paid for the lodging rental.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.077 USE OF FUNDS.
   Transient occupancy tax revenues received pursuant to the Annexation
Agreement between the County of Northampton and the Town of Cape Charles shall
be included in the county's general fund. All other revenues received pursuant
to this subchapter shall be divided according to the following formula:
   (A)    40% of the funds collected shall be allocated to the county's general
fund;
   (B)   Up to 45% of the funds collected shall be allocated as the annual
contribution to the Eastern Shore Tourism Commission from the Northampton
County Board of Supervisors; and
   (C)   The balance of the funds collected shall be allocated as the county’s
allocation towards a Tourism Infrastructure Grant Program as established by the
Board.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012;
Am. Ord. passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.078 EXCEPTIONS.
   No tax shall be payable under this chapter on lodging rental paid to any
hospital, medical clinic, convalescent home or home for the aged.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.079 COLLECTION PROCEDURE.
   Every person receiving any payment for lodging rental with respect to which
a tax is levied under this subchapter shall collect the amount of such tax so
imposed from the transient on whom such tax is levied or from the person paying
for such lodging at the time payment for such lodging is made. The taxes
required to be collected under this section shall be deemed to be held in trust
by the person required to collect such taxes until remitted as required in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.080 REPORTS AND REMITTANCE OF TAX.
   (A)   The person collecting the tax levied under this subchapter shall make
a report upon such forms and setting forth such information as the Commissioner
may prescribe and require. Such report shall show the amount of lodging rental
charges collected, including the collection of full pre-payments which shall be
listed separately, and the tax required to be collected and shall be signed and
delivered to the Commissioner with a remittance of such tax. Such reports and
remittances shall be made quarterly on or before the last day of October,
January, April and July in each year and shall cover the amount of tax
collected during the three months immediately preceding the months in which
such reports and remittances are required. If the remittance is by check or
money order, the same shall be payable to the Treasurer of Northampton County.
   (B)   No later than July 15, 2007, any person who has collected full pre-
payments through June 30, 2007 for lodging rentals between July 1, 2007 and
December 31, 2007 shall file a report upon such forms and setting forth such
information as the Commissioner may prescribe and require. Such report will
show the name of the renter, the date funds pre-paid, the actual or projected
dates of stay of the renter, and the amounts collected.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.081 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   If any person shall fail or refuse to remit to the County Treasurer the tax
required to be collected and paid under this subchapter within the time and in
the amount specified in this subchapter, there shall be added to such tax by
the County Treasurer a penalty in the amount of 10% for the first month the
taxes are past due, and 5% for each month thereafter, up to a maximum of 25% of
the taxes collected but not remitted, and interest thereon at the rate of 10%
per annum, which shall be computed upon the taxes and penalty from the date
such taxes are due and payable.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.082 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX.
   If any person shall fail or refuse to collect the tax imposed under this
subchapter and to make, within the time provided in this subchapter, the
reports and remittances required in this subchapter, the Commissioner shall
proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Commissioner shall
procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base
the assessment of any tax payable by any person who has failed or refused to
collect such tax and to make such report and remittance, he shall proceed to
determine and assess against such person such tax, penalty and interest as
provided for in this subchapter and shall notify such person, by registered
mail sent to his last known place of address, of the amount of such tax,
interest and penalty, and the total amount thereof shall be payable within ten
days from the date of the mailing of such notice.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
§ 33.083 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY PERSON LIABLE FOR COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment
to the county of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and to preserve for
a period of four years such suitable records as may be necessary to determine
and show accurately the amount of such tax as he may have been responsible for
collecting and paying to the county. Such records shall be available for
inspection by the Commissioner at all reasonable times.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
Penalty, see § 33.999
§ 33.084 TAX IMMEDIATELY DUE AND PAYABLE UPON CESSATION OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any person required to collect and remit the tax imposed and levied
by this subchapter shall go out of business, dispose of his business or
otherwise cease to operate his business, all taxes due from such person shall
thereupon be reported and remitted to the Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012)
Penalty, see § 33.999
TAX ON CONSUMERS OF LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICES FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE
OF ENHANCED 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
§ 33.095 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Findings. The Board of Supervisors finds that it is proper and
desirable to establish an E-911 system in Northampton County, Virginia; that
the local telephone service company has central office equipment which will
permit the establishment of such a system; that an E-911 system will be
installed in Northampton County, Virginia; and that it is necessary to impose a
special tax for the purpose of establishing and maintaining such a system.
   (B)   Purpose. This subchapter is enacted to levy a special tax on the
consumers of telephone services for the purpose of providing revenue for the
establishment and maintenance of an E-911 system.
   (C)   (1)   Authority. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority
granted by VA Code § 58.1-3813.1, as amended.
      (2)   Unlawful acts.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any nonexempt purchaser of local
telephone service to willfully refuse, fail or neglect to pay the tax imposed
on or before the due date of the tax as stated on the bill prepared therefor by
the seller.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for seller or any of seller’s officers,
directors, agents and employees to fail or refuse to perform any of those
duties imposed upon such seller under the terms hereof.
         (c)   Each failure, refusal and neglect and each days continuance
thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 33.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY TREASURER. The County Treasurer of Northampton County, Virginia, or
his duly authorized deputy or other representative.
   E-911 SYSTEM. A telephone service which utilizes a computerized system to
automatically route emergency telephone calls placed by dialing the digits
"911" to the proper public safety answering point serving the jurisdiction from
which the emergency telephone call was placed. An E-911 SYSTEM includes
selective routing of telephone calls, automatic telephone number
identification, and automatic location identification performed by computers
and other auxiliary control center communications equipment.
   LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE. Switched local exchange access service.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. A functional division of a public agency which
provides fire fighting, police, medical or other emergency services or a
private entity which provides such services on a voluntary basis.
   PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT. A communications facility operated on a 24
hour basis which first receives E-911 calls from persons in an E-911 service
area and which may, as appropriate, directly dispatch public safety services or
extend, transfer, or relay E-911 calls to appropriate public safety agencies.
   SELLER. Any corporation coming under the provisions of VA Code Title 58.1,
Chapter 26, as amended, which provides local telephone service or services
within Northampton County, Virginia.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 33.097 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   Tax. There is imposed and levied by the County of Northampton upon
every purchaser of local telephone service a special tax in the amount of $2
per month which tax shall be paid by such purchasers to the seller as
collection agent for the said Northampton County.
   (B)   Exemption from tax. The tax imposed by this subchapter shall not apply
to the United States of America, Commonwealth of Virginia, its political
subdivisions and their respective agencies, boards, commissions and
authorities, including public safety agencies.
   (C)   Exception to imposition of tax. The tax imposed by this subchapter
shall not apply to any local telephone service where a periodic bill is not
rendered.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-1998; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-2005)
§ 33.098 COLLECTION OF TAX AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Collection by seller. Each seller shall add to each of its periodic
bills to non-exempt purchasers of telephone service or services the amount of
tax imposed upon such purchaser by this subchapter and to collect from such
purchasers the amount of such tax.
   (B)   Disposition of funds by seller. Each seller shall upon its collection
of such tax segregate same and pay over to the County Treasurer on or before
the last business day of each calendar month all tax monies collected by it in
the calendar month preceding the month of such payment.
   (C)   Records of seller. Each seller shall maintain for a period of three
years records showing all purchases of local telephone service in Northampton
County. The records shall include the dates of bills for local telephone
service and the amount of tax stated on each such bill. Such records shall be
made available by the seller at its local offices for inspection and copying by
the County Treasurer during normal business hours.
   (D)   Notice of failure to pay tax. With each monthly payment of collected
tax monies, the seller shall furnish to the County Treasurer the name, mailing
address and physical residence location of each purchaser who has failed or
refused to pay the tax imposed by this subchapter and whose delinquency has
continued for 60 or more days.
   (E)   Compensation to seller. The seller shall be permitted to deduct from
its payments to the County Treasurer an amount equal to 3% of the tax collected
and accounted for by such seller to compensate for its costs of collection,
remittance and record keeping hereunder. The amount of such deduction shall be
stated in seller’s monthly report of collections and remittance given to the
County Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 33.099 USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   Records of County Treasurer. Upon receipt of tax revenues collected
hereunder, the County Treasurer shall cause such amount to be segregated for
use as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Use of funds collected. All tax revenues collected under this
subchapter shall be first utilized solely for the initial capital, installation
and maintenance costs of the E-911 System.
   (C)   Reduction in tax. When capital and installation costs have been fully
recovered, the rate of tax hereunder shall be reduced to such level as will
thereafter generate only such revenue as is necessary to offset recurring
maintenance costs only.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
TAX ON FOOD AND BEVERAGES SOLD IN RESTAURANTS
§ 33.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEVERAGE. Alcoholic beverages as defined in VA Code § 4.1-100 and non-
alcoholic beverages served as part of a meal.
   CATERER. A person who furnishes meals on the premises of another for
compensation.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Revenue of the County of Northampton,
Virginia.
   MEAL. Any prepared food and drink, including alcoholic beverages, offered or
held out for sale by a restaurant or caterer for the purpose of being consumed
by an individual or group of individuals at one time to satisfy the appetite.
All such food and drink shall be included, whether intended to be consumed on
the seller’s premises or elsewhere, whether designated as breakfast, lunch,
dinner, supper or by some other name, and without regard to the manner, time or
place of service. MEAL shall not mean groceries, food and beverages sold
through vending machines and alcoholic beverages sold in sealed containers for
off premises consumption.
   PURCHASER. Any person who purchases a meal.
   RESTAURANT. Any place or thing in the county from which or in which meals
are sold, including, but not limited to, any place where food is prepared for
service to the public on or off the premises or any place where food is served,
including caterers. Examples of such places include, but are not limited to,
restaurants, lunchrooms, short-order places, cafeterias, coffee shops, cafes,
taverns, bars, public or private clubs, and delicatessens. Excluded from the
definition are nonprofit cafeterias in public schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, boarding houses that do not accommodate transients, cafeterias
operated by industrial plants for employees only, churches, fraternal and
social organizations, and volunteer fire departments and rescue squads which
hold occasional dinners and bazaars of one or two days duration, at which food
prepared in the homes of members or in the kitchen of the church or
organization is offered for sale to the public, and churches which serve meals
for their members as a part of their religious observances.
   SELLER. Any person who sells a meal and any caterer.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the County of Northampton, Virginia, and any of
his duly authorized deputies, assistants, employees or agents.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.116 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Commissioner may issue regulations and forms for the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Treasurer may prescribe the monthly reports to be made with
remittance of the tax due.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.117 TAX LEVIED; AMOUNT.
   In addition to all other taxes and fees of any kind imposed by law, a tax is
levied and imposed on the purchaser of every meal served, sold or delivered in
the county by a restaurant or caterer. The rate of this tax shall be 5% of the
amount paid for the meal and/or beverage. On larger amounts, a fractional cent
of tax due shall be rounded up to the next highest cent.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
§ 33.118 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following classes of transactions involving meals shall not be subject
to tax under this subchapter:
   (A)   Food and beverages sold through vending machines;
   (B)   Food and beverages sold by boardinghouses that do not accommodate
transients;
   (C)   Food and beverages sold by cafeterias operated by industrial plants
for employees only;
   (D)   Food and beverages sold by churches, fraternal, school and social
organizations, and volunteer fire departments and rescue squads at occasional
dinners, bazaars, and other fund raisers of one or two days duration, at which
food prepared in the homes of members or in the kitchen of the church, school
or organization is offered for sale to the public;
   (E)   Food and beverages sold by churches which serve meals for their
members as a regular part of their religious observances;
   (F)   Alcoholic beverages sold in factory sealed containers and purchases
for off-premises consumption;
   (G)   Meals furnished by a hospital, medical clinic, convalescent home,
nursing home, home for the aged, infirm or handicapped or other extended care
facility to patients or residents thereof. Exemption does not include food sold
to the public or employees in the cafeterias of these establishments; these
sales are taxable;
   (H)   Any other sale of a meal which is exempt from taxation under the
Virginia Retail Sales and Use Tax Act (VA Code §§ 58.1-600 et seq.) or under
the administrative rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.119 APPLICATION OF TAX TO TIPS AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Where a purchaser provides a tip for an employee of a seller and the
amount of the tip is wholly in the discretion of the purchaser, the tip is not
subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, whether paid in cash to the
employee or added to the bill and charged to the purchaser’s account; provided,
that in the latter case, the full amount of the tip is turned over to the
employee by the seller.
   (B)   An amount or percentage, whether designated as a tip or a service
charge, that is added to the price of a meal by the seller and is required to
be paid by the purchaser is part of the selling price of the meal and is
subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.120 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   In every case, the tax levied by this subchapter shall be
collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser at the time the charge for
the meal becomes due and payable, whether payment is to be made in cash or on
credit by means of a credit card or otherwise.
      (2)   The seller shall add the tax to the amount charged for the meal and
shall pay the tax collected to the county as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   All amounts collected as taxes under this subchapter shall be deemed
to be held in trust by the seller collecting them for the benefit of the county
until remitted to the county as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.121 REGISTRATION OF SELLERS; REPORTS AND REMITTANCES OF TAX.
   (A)   All persons operating restaurants selling meals shall forthwith
register with the Commissioner of Revenue on forms provided by the Commissioner
for that purpose. Thereafter, persons operating restaurants as defined above
shall make a report to the Commissioner for each calendar month showing the
amount of charges collected for meals sold and the amount of tax collected.
Such reports shall be delivered to the Commissioner on or before the twentieth
day of the calendar month following the month to which the report applies. Each
report shall be accompanied by a remittance of the amount of tax due made
payable to Northampton County.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every seller liable for collection and
remittance of the taxes imposed by this subchapter to preserve for a period of
three years records showing all purchases taxable under this subchapter, the
amount charged to the purchaser for each such purchase, the date thereof, the
taxes collected thereon, and the amount of tax required to be collected
pursuant to this subchapter. The Treasurer shall have the power to examine and
copy such records at reasonable times and without unreasonable interference
with the business of such seller for the purpose of administering and enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Revenue for Northampton County may issue
additional regulations and promulgate forms for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.122 DUTY OF COMMISSIONER OR REVENUE.
   The Commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations for the
interpretation, administration and enforcement of this subchapter. It shall
also be the duty of the Commissioner to ascertain the name of every seller
liable for the collection of the tax imposed by this subchapter who fails,
refuses or neglects to collect such tax or to make the reports and remittances
required by this subchapter. The Commissioner shall have all of the enforcement
powers as authorized by VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 31, Article 1, as amended,
for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.123 DUTY OF TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall have the power and duty of collecting the taxes imposed
and levied hereunder and shall cause the same to be paid into the General
Treasury for the county. The Treasurer shall have all of the enforcement powers
as authorized by VA Code Title 58.1, Chapter 31, Article 2, as amended, for
purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.124 DUTY OF SELLER GOING OUT OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any person required to collect and remit to the county any tax
imposed by this subchapter shall cease to operate or otherwise dispose of its
business, any unpaid tax shall immediately become due and payable and such
person shall immediately make a report of the taxes due and shall remit such
taxes to the county.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.125 PENALTY AND INTEREST FOR LATE REMITTANCE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any person whose duty it is to collect and remit taxes hereunder
shall fail or refuse to make the reports or remit the taxes required by this
subchapter within the time and in the amount required, there shall be added to
the tax by the Treasurer a penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax, as well as
interest on the delinquent amount at the rate of 10% per annum, which interest
shall be computed on the tax and penalty from the date on which they were due
and payable.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of this subchapter or making a false statement with intent to defraud in any
section or report, made pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor or the maximum of such other penalty as may be allowed by law.
Conviction shall not relieve any person from the payment, collection or
remittance of the tax or any penalty and interest as provided in this
subchapter. Each violation or failure shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-12-2004)
§ 33.126 PROCEDURE UPON FAILURE TO COLLECTION, REPORT AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   If any person whose duty it is to do so shall fail or refuse to
collect the tax imposed under this subchapter and make timely report and
remittance thereof, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall proceed in such a
manner as is practicable to obtain facts and information on which to base an
estimate of tax due. As soon as the Commissioner of the Revenue has procured
whatever facts and information may be obtainable upon which to base the
assessment of the tax payable by a person who has failed to collect, report or
remit such tax, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall proceed to determine and
assess against such person the tax, penalty and interest provided in this
subchapter and shall notify the person by registered mail sent to his last
known address of the amount of such tax, penalty and interest. The total amount
thereof shall be payable within ten days after the date such notice is sent.
   (B)   If the purchaser of any meal refuses to pay the tax imposed by this
subchapter, the seller may call upon the Sheriff’s Department for assistance
and the investigating officer may, when probable cause exists, issue the
purchaser a summons returnable to the Northampton County General District Court
as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.127 ADVERTISING PAYMENT OR ABSORPTION OF TAX PROHIBITED.
   No seller shall advertise or hold out to the public in any manner, directly
or indirectly, that all or any part of a tax imposed by this subchapter will be
paid or absorbed by the seller or anyone else, or that the seller or anyone
else will relieve any purchaser of the payment of all or any portion of the tax
due.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
§ 33.128 COMPENSATION FOR COLLECTION.
   For the purpose of compensating sellers for the collection of the tax
imposed by this subchapter, and for the first 12 month period following
adoption and implementation of this subchapter, every seller shall be allowed
5% of the amount of the tax due and accounted for in the form of a deduction on
the seller’s monthly meals tax return, provided that the amount due is not
delinquent at the time of payment. No such deduction shall be allowed for any
month for which payment is past due or any subsequent month while any prior
month’s tax remains delinquent. At the end of the first 12 month period and
thereafter, the seller shall remit to the county the entire tax which is due.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2003)
MOBILE LOCAL TELECOMMUNICATION TAX
§ 33.140 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to authority contained in VA Code § 58.1-3812, as amended, the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors adopts the following provisions.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.141 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATED GROUP. The same meaning ascribed to in VA Code § 58.1-3703(C)
(10), except, for purposes of this subchapter, the word ENTITY shall be
substituted for the word CORPORATION whenever it is used in that section.
   CONSUMER. A person who, individually or through agents, employees, officers,
representatives, or permittees makes a taxable purchase of local
telecommunication services.
   MOBILE LOCAL TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. Any two-way mobile or portable local
telecommunication service, including cellular mobile radio telecommunication
service and specialized mobile radio.
   MOBILE SERVICE CONSUMER. A person having a telephone number for mobile local
telecommunication service who has made a taxable purchase of such service or on
whose behalf another person has made a taxable purchase of such service.
   MOBILE SERVICE PROVIDER. Every person engaged in the business of selling
mobile local telecommunication services to consumers.
   RESIDENTIAL CONSUMER. Shall not include any consumer of mobile local
telecommunication service.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of the telecommunication equipment from which
the telecommunication is originated or at which the telecommunication is
received by a consumer. However, if the service address is not a defined
location, as in the case of mobile telephones, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, service address shall mean the location of the
subscriber’s primary use of the telecommunication equipment within the licensed
service area. A mobile service provider may obtain a signed statement from a
consumer indicating which county, city or town within the licensed service area
is the location of the consumer’s primary use of the telecommunication
equipment. A mobile service provider shall be entitled to rely absolutely on a
consumer’s signed statement and shall remit the taxes collected to the county,
city or town identified by the consumer. In the absence of a signed statement
by a consumer, a mobile service provider shall identify the county, city or
town of the consumer's primary use and shall remit the tax to such county, city
or town based on any other reasonable method, including, without limitation,
the consumer’s billing address, service address, or telephone number within the
licensed service area.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. Every person engaged in the business of selling local
telecommunication services to consumers.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.142 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is imposed and levied by the county upon every consumer of
mobile local telecommunication with a service address within the county a tax
of 10% of the monthly gross charge to the consumer of mobile local
telecommunication; provided, however, that in the event a monthly bill
submitted by the mobile service provider exceeds $30 in gross charges, there
shall be no tax computed on the amount of the bill in excess of $30.
   (B)   All taxes imposed by ordinances in effect prior to the adoption of
this section shall remain valid in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.143 DUTY OF COUNTY TREASURER.
   The County Treasurer shall be charged with the power and duty of collecting
the taxes imposed and levied under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.144 DUTY OF SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every service provider to collect the tax from
the consumer by adding the tax to the monthly gross charge for such services.
The tax shall, when collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart
from the monthly gross charge. Until the consumer pays the tax to the service
provider, the tax shall constitute a debt of the consumer to the county. If any
consumer refuses to pay the tax, the service provider shall notify the county.
After the consumer pays the tax to the service provider the taxes collected
shall be deemed to be held in trust by the service provider until remitted to
the county.
   (B)   A service provider shall remit monthly to the county the amount of the
tax billed during the preceding month to consumers with a service address in
that county.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.145 EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   The United States of America, the state and the political subdivisions,
agencies, boards, commissions and authorities of the United States and the
state, including public safety agencies, are exempted from payment of the tax
imposed and levied by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.146 CONSUMER CREDIT.
   Any consumer shall be entitled to a refund from the county imposing the tax
equal to the amount of any tax the consumer paid to a jurisdiction outside of
the Commonwealth if such tax was legally imposed; however, the amount of credit
or refund shall not exceed the tax paid to the county on such purchase.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.147 SERVICE PROVIDER’S RECORDS.
   Every service provider of local telecommunication shall keep the records
showing all purchasers of service in the county. These records shall show the
dates of the bills for service and the amount of the tax appearing on each
bill. These records shall be kept at the service provider’s office for a period
of three years for inspection by the agents of the county at reasonable times
during normal business hours. The agents shall have the right and authority to
make copies of the records.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
§ 33.148 VIOLATIONS.
   Any consumer who willfully fails, refuses or neglects to pay the tax imposed
by any service provider pursuant to the mandates of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor. Each failure, refusal or neglect and each
day's continuance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2003)
IMPLEMENTATION OF 2004-2005 CHANGES TO THE PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX RELIEF ACT OF
1998
§ 33.180 PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS; RELATION TO ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the implementation of
the changes to the Personal Property Tax Relief Act of 1998 (PPTRA) effected by
legislation adopted during the 2004 Special Session l and the 2005 Regular
Session of the General Assembly of Virginia.
   (B)   Terms used in this subchapter that have defined meanings set forth in
PPTRA shall have the same meanings as set forth in VA Code § 58.1-3523, as
amended.
   (C)   To the extent that the provisions of this subchapter conflict with any
prior ordinance or provision to the County Code, this subchapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 33.181 METHOD OF COMPUTING AND REFLECTING TAX RELIEF.
   (A)   For tax years commencing in 2006, the county adopts the provisions of
Item 503.E of the 2005 Appropriations Act, providing for the computation of tax
relief as a specific dollar amount to be offset against the total taxes that
would otherwise be due but for PPTRA and the reporting of such specific dollar
relief on the tax bill.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors shall, by resolution, set the percentage of
tax relief at such a level that it is anticipated fully to exhaust PPTRA relief
funds provided to the county by the commonwealth.
   (C)   Personal property tax bills shall set forth on their face the specific
dollar amount of relief credited with respect to each qualifying vehicle,
together with an explanation of the general manner in which relief is
allocated.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 33.182 ALLOCATION OF RELIEF AMONG TAXPAYERS.
   (A)   Allocation of PPTRA relief shall be provided in accordance with the
general provisions of this section, as implemented by the specific provisions
of the county's annual budget relating to PPTRA relief.
   (B)   Relief shall be allocated in such a manner as to eliminate personal
property taxation of each qualifying vehicle with an assessed value of $1,000
or less.
   (C)   Relief with respect to qualifying vehicles with assessed values of
more than $1,000 shall be provided at a percentage, annually fixed and applied
to the first $20,000 in value of each such qualifying vehicle, that is
estimated fully to utilize all available state PPTRA relief. The percentage
shall be established annually as a part of the adopted budget for the county.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 33.183 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority conferred in Item 503.D of the 2005
Appropriations Act, the County Treasurer is authorized to issue a supplemental
personal property tax bill, in the amount of 100%of the tax due without regard
to any former entitlement to state PPTRA relief, plus applicable penalties and
interest, to any taxpayer whose taxes with respect to a qualifying vehicle for
tax year 2005 or any prior tax year remain unpaid on September 1, 2006, or such
date as state funds for reimbursement of the state share of such bill have
become unavailable, whichever earlier occurs.
   (B)   Penalty and interest with respect to bills issued pursuant to division
(A) of this section shall be computed on the entire amount of tax owed.
Interest shall be computed at the rate provided in VA Code § 58.1-3916, from
the original due date of the tax.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
NORTHAMPTON COUNTY CIGARETTE TAX
§ 33.200 CIGARETTE TAX TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Northampton
County Cigarette Tax Ordinance.”
   (B)   The County of Northampton hereby imposes a tax upon the sale of
cigarettes in the County of Northampton, and within the corporate limits of the
Towns of Cape Charles, Cheriton, Nassawadox, Exmore and Belle Haven, within the
county, but not within the corporate limits of the Town of Eastville, as hereby
set forth and under the terms and conditions herein.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022; Am. Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 33.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this subchapter, except in those
instances where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ADMINISTRATOR. The individual employed by the Board to administer the
enforcement of this subchapter, or his designated agents or appointees.
   BOARD or CBRCTB.  The Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board.
   CARTON. Any container, regardless of material used in its construction, in
which packages of cigarettes are placed.
   CIGARETTE. Means and includes any roll of any size or shape for smoking,
whether filtered or unfiltered, with or without a mouthpiece, made wholly or
partly of cut, shredded or crimped tobacco or other plant or substitute for
tobacco, whether the same is flavored, adulterated or mixed with another
ingredient, if the wrapper or cover is made of any material other than leaf
tobacco or homogenized leaf tobacco, regardless of whether the roll is labeled
or sold as a cigarette or by any other name.
   CIGARETTE MACHINE OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership or corporation
engaged in the sale of packages of cigarettes from vending machines.
   COUNTY. Northampton County, Virginia.
   DEALER. Dealer means and includes every manufacturer's representative,
wholesaler, retailer, cigarette machine operator, public warehouseman or other
person who shall sell, receive, store, possess, distribute, or transport
cigarettes within or into the county.
   PACKAGE. Means and includes any container, regardless of the material used
in its construction, in which separate cigarettes are placed without such
cigarettes being placed into any container within the package. Packages are
those containers of cigarettes from which they are consumed by their ultimate
user. Ordinarily, a package contains 20 cigarettes; however, PACKAGE includes
those containers in which fewer or more than 20 cigarettes are placed.
   PERSON. Means and includes any individual, firm, unincorporated association,
company, corporation, joint stock company, group, agency, syndicate, trust or
trustee, receiver, fiduciary, partnership, and conservator. The word PERSON as
applied to a partnership, unincorporated association or other joint venture
means the partners or members thereof, and as applied to a corporation,
includes all the officers and directors thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Means and includes any place where cigarettes are sold,
placed, stored, offered for sale, or displayed for sale or where cigarettes are
brought or kept for the purpose of sale, consumption or distribution, including
vending machines, by a dealer within the county.
   REGISTERED AGENT. Means and includes every dealer and other person who shall
be required to report and collect the tax on cigarettes under the provisions of
this subchapter.
   RETAIL DEALER. Means and includes every person who, in the usual course of
business, purchases or receives cigarettes from any source whatsoever for the
purpose of sale within the county to the ultimate consumer; or any person who,
in the usual course of business, owns, leases or otherwise operates within his
own place of business, one or more cigarette vending machines for the purpose
of sale within the county of cigarettes to the ultimate consumer; or any person
who, in any manner, buys, sells, stores, transfers or deals in cigarettes for
the purpose of sale within the county to the ultimate consumer, who is not
licensed as a wholesaler or vending machine operator.
   SALE or SELL. Means and includes every act or transaction, regardless of the
method or means employed, including barter, exchange or the use of vending
machines or other mechanical devices or a criminal or tortious act whereby
either ownership or possession, or both, of any cigarettes shall be transferred
within the county from a dealer as herein defined to any other person for a
consideration.
   STAMP. A small, gummed piece of paper or decal used to evidence provision
for payment of the tax as authorized by the Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax
Board, required to be affixed to every package of cigarettes sold, distributed,
or used within the county.
   STORE or STORAGE. Means and includes the keeping or retention of cigarettes
in this county for any purpose except sale in the regular course of business.
   TOBACCO REVENUE AGENT. Means persons authorized by CBRCTB to act on its
behalf in enforcement of this subchapter.
   USE. Means and includes the exercise of any right or power over any
cigarettes or packages of cigarettes incident to the ownership or possession of
those cigarettes or packages of cigarettes including any transaction where
possession is given or received or otherwise transferred, other than a sale.
   USER. Any person who exercises any right or power over any cigarettes or
packages of cigarettes subject to the provisions of this subchapter incident to
the ownership or possession of those cigarettes or packages of cigarettes or
any transaction where possession is given or received or otherwise transferred,
other than a sale.
   WHOLESALE DEALERS. Any individual, partnership, or corporation engaged in
the sale of packages of cigarettes for resale into or within the county.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.202 LEVY AND RATE.
   In addition to all other taxes of every kind now or hereafter imposed by
law, there is hereby levied and imposed by the county upon every person who
sells or uses cigarettes within the county an excise tax at a rate of forty
cents ($0.40) for each package containing twenty cigarettes and two cents
($0.02) for each cigarette contained in packages of fewer or more than 20
cigarettes sold or used within the county. The tax shall be paid and collected
in the manner and at the time hereinafter prescribed; provided, that the tax
payable for each cigarette or cigarette package sold or used within the county
shall be paid but once.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.203 METHODS OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be evidenced by the use of a
tax stamp and shall be paid by each dealer or other person liable for the tax.
The stamps shall be affixed in such a manner that their removal will require
continued application of water or steam. Each dealer or other person liable for
the tax is hereby required, and it shall be his duty, to collect, pay the tax
and report on a monthly basis all packages of cigarettes on forms prescribed
for this purpose by the Board, including the following:
      (1)   The quantity of CBRCTB-stamped cigarettes sold or delivered to:
         (a)   Each registered agent appointed by the Board for which no tax
was collected;
         (b)   Each manufacturer's representative; and
         (c)   Each separate person and place of business during the preceding
calendar or fiscal month; and
      (2)   The quantity of CBRCTB stamps on hand, both affixed and unaffixed
on the first and the last day of the preceding calendar month and the quantity
of CBRCTB stamps or CBRCTB stamped cigarettes received during the preceding
calendar month; and
      (3)   The quantity of cigarettes on hand to which the CBRCTB stamp had
not been affixed on the first and last day of the preceding calendar or fiscal
month and the quantity of cigarettes received during the preceding calendar or
fiscal month to which the CBRCTB stamp had not been affixed; and
      (4)   Such further information as the Administrator for the Board may
require for the proper administration and enforcement of this subchapter for
the determination of the exact number of cigarettes in the possession of each
dealer or user.
   (B)   Each dealer or other person liable for the tax shall file such reports
with the Board and pay the tax due to the Board prior to the monthly due date
to be established by the Board and shall furnish copies of all cigarette tax
reports submitted to the Virginia Department of Taxation.
   (C)   When, upon examination and audit of any invoices, records, books,
cancelled checks or other memoranda touching on the purchase, sale, receipt,
storage or possession of tobacco products taxed herein, any dealer or other
person liable for the tax is unable to furnish evidence to the Board of
sufficient tax payments and stamp purchases to cover cigarettes which were
sold, used, stored, received, purchased or possessed by such person, the prima
facie presumption shall arise that such cigarettes were received, sold, used,
stored, purchased or possessed by such person without the proper tax having
been paid. The Board shall, from the results of such examination and audit
based upon such direct or indirect information available, assess the tax due,
impose a penalty of 10% and may impose interest of ¾% per month of the gross
tax due.
   (D)   When any dealer or other person liable for the tax files a false or
fraudulent report or fails to file a report or fails to perform any act or
performs any act to evade payment of the tax, the Board shall administratively
assess the tax due and impose a penalty not to exceed 50% of the tax due and
interest of ¾% per month of the gross tax due.
   (E)   The dealer or other person liable for the tax shall be notified by
certified mail of such deficiency and such tax, penalty and interest assessed
shall be due and payable within ten days after notice of such deficiency has
been issued. Every dealer or other person liable for the tax shall examine each
package of cigarettes to ensure that the CBRCTB stamp has been affixed thereto
prior to offering them for sale.
   (F)   Any dealer or other person liable for the tax who shall receive
cigarettes not bearing the CBRCTB stamp shall, within receipt of such
cigarettes, commence and with all reasonable diligence continue to affix the
CBRCTB stamp to each and every package of cigarettes until all unstamped
packages of cigarettes have been stamped and before offering such cigarettes
for sale. Any dealer or other person liable for the tax who has notified the
Board that he is engaged in interstate or intrastate business shall be
permitted to set aside such part of his stock as may be legally kept for the
conduct of such interstate or intrastate business (that is, cigarettes held for
sale outside the jurisdiction of the Board) without affixing the stamps
required by this subchapter. Any such interstate or intrastate stock shall be
kept entirely separate and apart from the CBRCTB-stamped stock, in such a
manner as to prevent the commingling of the interstate or intrastate stock with
the CBRCTB stock. Any dealer or other person liable for the tax found to have
had untaxed cigarettes which have been lost, whether by negligence, theft or
any other unaccountable loss, shall be liable for and shall pay the tax due
thereon.
   (G)   It shall also be the duty of each dealer or other person liable for
the tax to maintain and keep for a period of three years, not including the
current calendar year, records of all cigarettes received, sold, stored,
possessed, transferred or handled by such person in any manner whatsoever,
whether the same were stamped or unstamped, to make all such records available
for audit, inspection and examination at all reasonable times, as well as the
means, facilities and opportunity for making such audit, inspection or
examination upon demand of the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.204 REGISTERED AGENTS.
   (A)   Any dealer or other person liable for the tax who shall sell, use,
store, possess, distribute or transport cigarettes within or into the county
shall first make application to the Board to qualify as a registered agent. The
application form shall require such information as the Board deems necessary
for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. Applications shall
be subject to yearly Registration Fees for all Wholesale Dealers and all
Cigarette Machine Operators. Applicants shall provide a surety bond to the
Board in the amount of 150% of the applicant's average monthly tax liability.
Such bonds shall be issued by a surety company authorized to do business in the
Commonwealth of Virginia. Such bond shall be so written that, on timely payment
of the premium thereon, it shall continue in force from year to year. Any
applicant whose place of business is outside the area subject to enforcement by
the Board shall automatically, by filing virtue of filing of the application,
be deemed to submit to the Board's legal jurisdiction and appoint the
Administrator for the Board as agent for any service of lawful process, unless
the applicant designates an attorney with offices within the county upon which
lawful process is to be served. Upon receipt of properly completed application
forms and the required surety bond, the Board shall determine whether the
applicant qualifies to be a registered agent. The Board will issue to qualified
applicants a yearly registered agent permit to enable such agent to purchase,
sell, use, store, possess, distribute or transport within or into the county,
CBRCTB-stamped cigarettes.
   (B)   By submitting an application, registered agents obligate themselves to
the reporting and payment requirements placed upon them by this subchapter and
the rules and regulations as from time to time may be promulgated by the Board.
   (C)   When any registered agent's monthly report and payment of the tax is
not received within the dates prescribed, the Board shall impose a late
reporting penalty of 10% of the gross tax due or $10 whichever is greater, but
in no event more than $1,000.
   (D)   The Board also may require such registered agent to provide proof that
he has complied with all applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia to
legally conduct such business and to file financial statements showing all
assets and liabilities.
   (E)   The Board may revoke or suspend any registered agent's permit due to
failure to file tax reports in a timely manner, non-payment of taxes due, or if
the cigarette tax surety bond should become impaired for any reason.
   (F)   All money collected as cigarette taxes under this subchapter shall be
deemed to be held in trust by the dealer collecting the same until remitted to
the Board.
   (G)   Registered agents must account for all CBRCTB authorized tax stamps
purchased. Periodic audits may be conducted to determine any unaccounted
variance between the number of stamps purchased and the number of stamps
reported, and an assessment will be made for all unaccounted stamps. Any
assessment of registered agents located outside the jurisdictions of the Board
will be based upon the average sales of packages of cigarettes by jurisdiction
during the audit period. For registered agents located within the jurisdictions
of the Board, any assessment will be based upon the tax rate of the
jurisdiction in which they are located. In addition, there will be a penalty
for non-reporting of 10% of the gross tax due.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.205 REQUIREMENTS FOR RETAIL DEALERS.
   (A)   Retail dealers who shall sell, offer for sale, store, possess,
distribute, purchase, receive or transport cigarettes for the purpose of sale
within the county shall purchase cigarettes only from registered agents. Retail
dealers shall provide the registered agent with the business trade name and
physical address where the cigarettes will be placed for sale to the public.
Cigarettes purchased for personal use cannot be brought into a business for
resale. Only properly registered and licensed retail stores may sell cigarettes
to the public. To be properly registered and licensed, a retail store must
first have a valid Virginia state sale and use tax certificate and valid retail
business license. Cigarettes must be purchased and stored separately for each
business location. All copies of cigarette purchase invoices/receipts must be
retained by the retailer for a period of three years and shall be made
available to agents of the CBRCTB upon request for use in conducting audits and
investigations. All copies of cigarette purchase invoices/receipts must be
stored at the business retail location for a period of one year from date of
purchase. Failure to provide cigarette invoices/receipts may result in
confiscation of cigarettes until receipts can be reviewed by the Board to
verify the proper tax has been paid. It is the responsibility of each retail
location to ensure that all cigarettes placed for sale or stored at that
location be properly taxed and stamped. Cigarettes found without the CBRCTB
stamp or the proper jurisdictional tax paid will be seized by the Agents of the
Board.
   (B)   Retail dealers must make their place of business available for
inspection by CBRCTB Tobacco Revenue agents to ensure that all cigarettes are
properly tax-stamped, and all cigarette taxes are properly paid.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.206 PRESUMPTION OF ILLEGALITY; SEIZURE OF CONTRABAND GOODS, SEALING/
SEIZING OF MACHINES.
   (A)   If any cigarette machine operator or other person liable for the tax
imposed by this subchapter is found to possess any cigarettes without the
jurisdictional tax paid or the proper tax stamp affixed, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that any such operator or other person shall be in
possession of untaxed cigarettes in violation of this section.
   (B)   If any cigarettes are placed in any vending machines within the
county, then there shall be a rebuttable presumption that such cigarettes were
placed in that machine for sale within the county. If any vending machine
located within the county contains cigarettes upon which the CBRCTB tax stamp
has not been affixed or on which the jurisdictional tax has not been paid or
containing cigarettes placed so as to not allow visual inspection of the CBRCTB
tax stamp through viewing area as provided for by the vending machine
manufacturer, then there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the machine
contains untaxed cigarettes in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any cigarettes, vending machines, cigarette tax stamps or other
property found in violation of this subchapter shall be declared contraband
goods and may be seized by the Board. In addition to any tax due, the dealer or
other person liable for the tax possessing such untaxed cigarettes or tax
stamps shall be subject to civil and criminal penalties herein provided.
   (D)   In lieu of seizure, the Board may seal such vending machines to
prevent continued illegal sale or removal of such cigarettes. The removal of
such seal from a vending machine by any unauthorized person shall be a
violation of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the
seizure of any vending machine at any time after it is sealed.
   (E)   All cigarette vending machines shall be plainly marked with the name,
address and telephone number of the owner of said machine.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.207 ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the subchapter for any dealer
or other person liable for the tax:
      (1)   To perform any act or fail to perform any act for the purpose of
evading the payment of any tax imposed by this subchapter or of any part
thereof, or to fail or refuse to perform any of the duties imposed upon such
person under the provisions of this subchapter or to fail or refuse to obey any
lawful order which may be issued under this subchapter;
      (2)   To falsely or fraudulently make, or cause to be made, any invoices
or reports, or to falsely or fraudulently forge, alter or counterfeit any
stamp, or to procure or cause to be made, forged, altered or counterfeited any
such stamp, or knowingly and willfully to alter, publish, pass or tender as
true any false, altered, forged or counterfeited stamp or stamps;
      (3)   To sell, offer for sale, or distribute any cigarettes upon which
the CBRCTB tax stamp has not been affixed or upon which the jurisdictional tax
has not been paid;
      (4)   To possess, store, use, authorize or approve the possession,
storage or use of any cigarette packages upon which the CBRCTB tax stamp has
not been affixed or upon which the jurisdictional tax has not been paid;
      (5)   To transport, authorize or approve the transportation of any
cigarette packages in quantities of more than six cartons (60 packages) into or
within the county upon which the CBRCTB tax stamp has not been affixed or upon
which the jurisdictional tax has not been paid, if they are:
         (a)   Not accompanied by a receipt/bill of lading or other document
indicating the true name and address of the consignor or seller and the
consignee or purchaser and the brands and quantity of cigarettes transported;
or
         (b)   Accompanied by a receipt/bill of lading or other document which
is false or fraudulent in whole or part; or
         (c)   Accompanied by a receipt/bill of lading or other document
indicating:
            1.   A consignee or purchaser in another state or the District of
Columbia who is not authorized by the law of such other jurisdiction to receive
or possess such tobacco products on which the taxes imposed by such other
jurisdiction have not been paid unless the tax on the jurisdiction of
destination has been paid and said cigarettes bear the tax stamps of that
jurisdiction; or
            2.   A consignee or purchaser in the Commonwealth of Virginia but
outside the taxing jurisdiction who does not possess a Virginia Sales and Use
Tax Certificate and, where applicable, any licenses issued by the Commonwealth
or local jurisdiction of destination;    
      (6)   To reuse or refill with cigarettes any package from which
cigarettes have been removed, for which the tax imposed has been theretofore
paid;
      (7)   To remove from any package any stamp with intent to use or cause
the same to be used after same has already been used or to buy, sell, or offer
for sale or give away any used, removed, altered or restored stamps to any
person, or to reuse any stamp which had theretofore been used for evidence of
the payment of any tax prescribed by this subchapter or to sell, or offer to
sell, any stamp provided for herein;
      (8)   To sell, offer for sale or distribute any loose or single
cigarettes; or
      (9)   To perform any act that violates the resolutions promulgated by the
Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the subchapter for any person
or individual to transport, possess, store, use, authorize or approve the
possession, storage or use of any cigarette in quantities of more than six
cartons (60 packages) upon which the CBRCTB tax stamp has not been affixed or
upon which the jurisdictional tax has not been paid.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.208 AUTHORIZATION TO JOIN THE CHESAPEAKE BAY REGION CIGARETTE TAX BOARD.
   (A)   The ordinance adopted by the County Board of Supervisors, effective
July 1, 2022, pertaining to authorizing Northampton County to join the
Chesapeake Bay Region Cigarette Tax Board is hereby made a part of this
subchapter by reference. The validity of this subchapter is expressly
conditioned upon the acceptance and joinder of Northampton County as a member
of the Chesapeake Bay Region Tax Board. See §
30.02.
   (B)   Any direct conflict between the powers granted to the Board in the
ordinance adopted by the County Board, effective July 1, 2022, and herein
incorporated by reference and the powers granted to the Board in this
subchapter shall be resolved in favor of this subchapter; however, the powers
granted herein and in said ordinance shall be read cumulatively.
   (C)   The County Board of Supervisors shall appoint the county's
representative to the Chesapeake Bay Region Tax Board, and an alternate
representative to be added when the appointed representative is unable to
attend. Said representatives shall be selected from the citizens of the County
of Northampton at large. The term of said representatives shall be one year.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.209 POWERS OF THE CHESAPEAKE BAY REGION CIGARETTE TAX BOARD.
   The Board may delegate any of its powers to its Administrator or employees
and may adopt regulations regarding the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   In addition to those powers enumerated in the Ordinance of the County
Board effective July 1, 2022, the Board shall be granted the following
additional powers:
      (1)   To sue and be sued in its own name;
      (2)   To prescribe the design of a stamp(s) and to issue and sell said
stamps to authorized dealers;
      (3)   To establish different classes of taxpayers;
      (4)   To promulgate resolutions for the assessment and collection of
cigarette taxes and the enforcement of this subchapter; and
      (5)   To conduct inspections of any place of business in order to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter and all resolutions of the Board.
   (B)   The Board may employ legal counsel, bring appropriate court action in
its own name to enforce payment of the cigarette tax or penalties owed and file
tax liens against property of taxpayers hereunder.
   (C)   The Board is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Virginia
Department of Taxation under which a registered agent with the CBRCTB who is
also qualified to purchase Virginia Revenue Stamps, may qualify to purchase
Dual Virginia - CBRCTB stamps from the Virginia Department of Taxation.
Authority to purchase dual Virginia - CBRCTB stamps is granted solely by the
Board and may be revoked or suspended for violations of this subchapter or
resolutions adopted by the Board.
   (D)   The Board may appoint certain employees as Tobacco Revenue Agents, who
shall be required to carry proper identification while performing their duties.
Tobacco Revenue Agents are further authorized to conduct inspections of any
place of business and shall have the power to seize or seal any vending
machines, seize any cigarettes, counterfeit stamps or other property found in
violation of this subchapter and shall have the power of arrest upon reasonable
and probable cause that a violation of this subchapter has been committed. The
Board is authorized to provide its tobacco revenue agents with:
      (1)   Firearms for their protection;
      (2)   Emergency equipped vehicles while on duty; and
      (3)   Other equipment deemed necessary and proper.
   (E)   The Board may exchange information relative to the sale, use,
transportation, or shipment of cigarettes with an official of any other
jurisdiction entrusted with the enforcement of the cigarette tax laws of said
other jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.210 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   If the Administrator of the Board determines that the collection of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected and paid under this subchapter
will be jeopardized by delay, the Administrator shall make an assessment of the
tax or amount of tax required to be collected and shall mail or issue a notice
of such assessment to the taxpayer together with a demand for immediate payment
of the tax or of the deficiency in tax declared to be in jeopardy including
penalties and interest. In the case of a current period, for which the tax is
in jeopardy, the Administrator may declare the taxable period of the taxpayer
immediately terminated and shall cause notice of such finding and declaration
to be mailed or issued to the taxpayer together with a demand for immediate
payment of the tax based on the period declared terminated and such tax shall
be immediately due and payable, whether or not the terms otherwise allowed by
this subchapter for filing a return and paying the tax has expired.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.211 ERRONEOUS ASSESSMENT: NOTICES AND HEARINGS IN EVENT OF SEALING OF
VENDING MACHINES OR SEIZURE OF CONTRABAND PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person assessed by the Board with a cigarettes tax, penalties and
interest or any person whose cigarettes, vending machines and other property
have been sealed or seized under processes of this subchapter, who has been
aggrieved by such assessment, seizure or sealing may file a request for a
hearing before the Administrator for the Board for a correction of such
assessment and the return of such property seized or sealed.
   (B)   Where holders of property interest in cigarettes, vending machines or
other property are known at time of seizure or sealing, notice of seizure or
sealing shall be sent to them by certified mail within 24 hours. Where such
holders of property interests are unknown at the time of seizure or sealing, it
shall be sufficient notice to such unknown interest holders to post such notice
to a door or wall of the room or building which contained such seized or sealed
property. Any such notice of seizure or sealing shall include procedures for an
administrative hearing for return of such property seized or sealed and an
opportunity to assert affirmative defenses.
   (C)   Such hearing shall be requested in writing within ten days of the
notice of such assessment, seizure or sealing and the hearing request shall set
forth the reasons why said tax, penalties and interest, cigarettes, vending
machines or other property should be returned or released. Within five days
after receipt of such hearing request, the Administrator shall notify the
petitioner by certified mail of a date and time for the informal presentation
of evidence at a hearing to be held within 15 days of the date notification is
mailed. Any such request for hearing shall be denied if the assessed tax,
penalties and interest has not been paid as required or if the request is
received more than ten days from first notice to the petitioner of such seizure
or sealing. Within five days after the hearing, the Administrator shall notify
the petitioner, by registered mail, whether his request for a correction has
been granted or refused.
   (D)   Appropriate relief shall be given by the Administrator if he is
convinced by the preponderance of the evidence that said seized cigarettes were
in the possession of a person other than the petitioner without the
petitioner's consent at the time said cigarettes, vending machines or other
property were seized or sealed or that petitioner was authorized to possess
such untaxed cigarettes. If the Administrator is satisfied that the tax was
erroneously assessed, the Administrator shall refund the amount erroneously
assessed together with any interest and penalties paid thereon and shall return
any cigarettes, vending machines or other property seized or sealed to the
petitioner. Any petitioner who is dissatisfied with the written decision of the
Board may, within 30 days of the date of such decision, appeal such decision to
the appropriate Court in the jurisdiction where the seizure or sealing
occurred.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.212 DISPOSAL OF SEIZED PROPERTY.
   Any seized and confiscated cigarettes, vending machines or other property
used in the furtherance of any illegal evasion of the tax may be disposed of by
sale or other method deemed appropriate by the Board after any petitioner has
exhausted all administrative appeal procedures. No credit from any sale of
cigarettes, vending machines, or other property seized shall be allowed toward
any tax and penalties assessed.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.213 EXTENSIONS.
   The Administrator, upon a finding of good cause, may grant an extension of
time to file a tax report upon written application for a period not exceeding
30 days. Except as hereinafter provided, no interest or penalty shall be
charged, assessed, or collected by reason of the granting of such an extension.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.214 EACH VIOLATION A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   The sale of any quantity, the use, possession, storage or transportation of
more than six cartons (60 packages) of cigarettes upon which the CBRCTB tax
stamp has not been affixed or the proper jurisdictional tax has not been paid
shall be and constitute a separate violation. Each continuing day of violation
shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any willful failure or refusal to timely file a return for tax
purposes required by this chapter or any false statement made in a return filed
for tax purposes with intent to defraud in the return shall be punishable:
      (1)   As a Class 3 misdemeanor if the amount of the tax lawfully assessed
in connection with the return is $1,000 or less; or
      (2)   A Class 1 misdemeanor if the amount of the tax lawfully assessed in
connection with the return is more than $1,000.
   (C)   In addition to the criminal penalties provided for in this chapter,
the County Treasurer and the Board of Supervisors shall have available to them
all civil remedies available in law and equity to insure the collection of all
taxes due pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Any corporate or partnership officer as defined in VA Code § 58.1-3906
or any other person required to collect, account for, and pay over any
transient occupancy tax who willfully fails to collect or truthfully account
for and pay over such tax, and any such officer or person who willfully evades
or attempts to evade any such tax or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to
any other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor. Each
violation or failure shall constitute a separate offense. Such conviction shall
not relieve any such person from the payment, collection or remittance of the
tax as provided in §§
33.075 through
33.084.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
33.200 through
33.214 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 or imprisonment for not more than 12
months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Such fine and/or imprisonment
shall not relieve any such person from the payment of any tax, penalty or
interest imposed by §§
33.200 through
33.214.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989; Am. Ord. passed 6-19- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-13-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2012; Ord. passed 4-12-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTE
   
51.   (RESERVED)
   
52.   (RESERVED)
   
53.   WATER PROTECTION
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Authorization
   
50.02   Title
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   General prohibitions
   
50.05   Trespassing
   
50.06   Littering
   
50.07   Burning of solid waste
   
50.08   Discharge of firearms
   
50.09   County sanitary landfill/transfer station
   
50.10   Permit
   
50.11   Waste collection sites
   
50.12   Privately licensed solid waste facilities
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority contained in VA Code 15.2-927
et seq. and 33.1-346 and Title 10.1, Chapter 14, as amended.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.02 TITLE.
   For purposes of enforcement and reference, this chapter shall be known as
the "Northampton County Solid Waste Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 5-14 2013)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. Northampton County Board of Supervisors.
   CONVENIENCE CENTER. See WASTE COLLECTION SITE.
   COUNTY. Northampton County.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that such solid
waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into
the air or discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.
   FEDERAL ACTS.  Any act of Congress providing for waste management and any
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. A substance or material in a form or quantity which may
pose an unreasonable risk to health, safety or property when transported, and
which the Secretary of Transportation of the United States has so designated by
regulation or order.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A substance listed under United States Public Law 96-
510, entitled the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste or combination of solid waste which, because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
   3
2013 S-13
 
4   Northampton County - Public Works
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, Transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Those items of solid waste that can reasonably be expected
to be generated from within a home by the day-to-day operation of the
household. The term HOUSEHOLD WASTE specifically excludes demolition debris and
yard debris generated by clearing/cleanup activities such as shrub and tree
parts, grass clippings, leaves, fencing, etc.
   MIXED LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Low-level radioactive waste that contains
a substance which renders the mixture a hazardous waste.
   OPEN DUMP. A site on which any solid waste is placed, discharged, deposited,
injected, dumped or spilled so as to create a nuisance or present a threat of a
release of harmful substances into the environment or present a hazard to human
health.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, partnership, association, a
governmental body, a municipal corporation, or any other legal entity.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE or NUCLEAR WASTE. Includes:
      (1)   Low-level radioactive waste material that:
         (a)   Is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel,
transuranic waste, or by-product material as defined in section 11e(2) of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014 (e) (2)); and
         (b)   The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, consistent with existing law,
classifies as low-level radioactive waste; or
      (2)   High-level radioactive waste which means:
         (a)   The highly radioactive material resulting from the reprocessing
of spent nuclear fuel, including liquid waste produced directly in reprocessing
and any solid material derived from such liquid waste that contains fission
products; and
         (b)   Other highly radioactive material that the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, consistent with existing law, determines by rule requires permanent
isolation.
   RESOURCE CONSERVATION. Reduction of the amounts of solid waste that are
generated, reduction of overall resource consumption and utilization of
recovered resources.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A disposal facility for solid waste so located, designed
and operated that it does not pose a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health or the environment, including pollution of air, land, surface
water or groundwater.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid or liquid wastes with similar characteristics
and effects generated from a public, municipal, commercial or industrial
wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, air pollution control
facility or any other waste producing facility.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material, resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, or community
activities but does not include:
      (1)   Solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage,
      (2)   Solid or dissolved material in irrigation return flows or in
industrial discharges which are sources subject to a permit from the State
Water Control Board, or
      (3)   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the
Federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
 
2013 S-13
   Solid Waste   5
   TRANSFER STATION. Any solid waste storage or collection facility at which
solid waste is transferred from collection vehicles to haulage vehicles for
transportation to a central solid waste management facility for disposal,
incineration or resource recovery.
   TRANSPORT or TRANSPORTATION. Any movement of property, and any packing,
loading, unloading or storage incidental thereto.
   TREATMENT. Any method, technique or process, including incineration or
neutralization, designed to change the physical, chemical or biological
character or composition of any waste to neutralize it or to render it less
hazardous or nonhazardous, safer for transport, amenable to recovery, or
storage or reduced in volume.
   WASTE. Any solid, hazardous or radioactive waste as defined in this section.
   WASTE COLLECTION SITE (also known as a CONVENIENCE CENTER). A collection
point for the temporary storage of solid waste provided for individual solid
waste generators who choose to transport solid waste generated on their own
premises to an established centralized point, rather than directly to a
disposal facility. To be classified as a waste collection site, the collection
point may not receive waste from collection vehicles that have collected waste
from more than one real property owner. A waste collection site shall be on a
system of regularly scheduled collections.
   WASTE MANAGEMENT. The collection, source separation, storage,
transportation, transfer, processing, treatment and disposal of waste or
resource recovery.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.04 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Authorized use. Use of Northampton County's solid waste management
facilities, to include the sanitary landfill, the transfer station and the
waste collection sites, is limited to persons residing in Northampton County or
Accomack County, or those persons conducting business within the Counties of
Northampton and Accomack as a result thereof.
   (B)   Open dumps. No person shall dispose of solid waste in open dumps.
   (C)   Private sanitary landfills. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a private sanitary landfill within the county unless permitted by the
Virginia Department of Solid Waste Management or such other agencies of the
Commonwealth of Virginia as may be authorized by law or regulation to permit
such activity.
   (D)   Hazardous waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of
hazardous waste within the county.
   (E)   Scavenging. Solid waste disposed of at the county sanitary landfill,
the transfer station or the waste collection sites shall become the property of
the county. Scavenging and unauthorized removal of any material from the
county's sanitary landfill, the transfer station or the waste collection sites
is prohibited with the exception of items left in the designated "take it or
leave it" areas of the waste collection sites.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.05 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Sanitary landfill. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than
county employees actually engaged in the course of their employment, and law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties, to enter or
cause another to enter upon the county sanitary landfill except during normal
business hours of operation.
   (B)   Restrictive access. During the hours of normal operation, county
employees shall direct persons to specific areas of the landfill and/or shall
prohibit access to specified areas of the sanitary landfill. It shall be
unlawful for any person to disobey such directive.
   (C)   Transfer station/waste collection sites. It shall be unlawful for any
person, other than county employees actually engaged in the course of their
employment, and law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties, to enter or cause another to enter upon an area controlled and operated
by the county as a transfer site or waste collection site, except during hours
of operation.
   (D)   Parking. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a county
employee or law enforcement officer actually engaged in the course of his
employment, to stop or park a motor vehicle on the county sanitary landfill
site, the transfer station, or the waste collection sites except temporarily
for the purpose of unloading solid waste in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.06 LITTERING.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of or cause to be
disposed of any waste by littering in or upon any property within Northampton
County.
      (2)   Any person who disposes of solid waste by placing same inside a
container provided by the county for the purpose of collecting said solid waste
shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this section.
   (B)    Waste collection sites. It shall be unlawful for any person to drop,
deposit, discard or otherwise dispose of solid waste or other material in, on,
or around any waste collection site except in refuse containers provided for
the purpose of solid waste collection. Any article found so placed outside a
refuse container and bearing a person's name and/or address shall be presumed
to be the property of such person whose name and/or address appears thereon
and, further, that such person placed or caused to be placed such article
outside of the refuse container; provided, however, that such presumption may
be rebutted by competent evidence.
   (C)   Transportation of solid waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to
collect or transport solid waste in a vehicle unless such solid waste shall be
enclosed or securely covered by a canvas, screen wire, or by other means
necessary to prevent its loss from the vehicle in transit.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.07 BURNING OF SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn solid waste within 100 feet of a
residence, whether occupied or unoccupied, garage, stable, outbuilding, or
fence made of flammable material, unless said solid waste is confined in a
closed container of galvanized iron or other fire proof material or unless the
fire is attended by an able bodied person until such time as the embers thereof
are burned out or the burning embers are extinguished.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.08 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to discharge or cause to be
discharged a firearm into or upon the property of the sanitary landfill;
provided that this section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer in
the performance of his official duties nor to any other person whose said
willful act is otherwise justifiable or excusable at law in the protection of
his life or property.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
 § 50.09 COUNTY SANITARY LANDFILL/TRANSFER STATION
   (A)   Public landfill/transfer station. The sanitary landfill/transfer
station shall be owned and operated by the county for the use of the general
public. Such landfill/transfer station shall be operated under permits from the
Department of Environmental Quality and in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by said Department. The term GENERAL PUBLIC as used in
this section shall mean persons owning or leasing property in the Counties of
Northampton or Accomack and persons conducting business within the Counties of
Northampton or Accomack. Only solid waste collected within the Counties of
Northampton or Accomack will be accepted.
   (B)   Hours of operation. The sanitary landfill/ transfer station shall be
open to the general public on a regular schedule. The County Administrator is
authorized to set the days and hours of operation. Said operating schedule
shall be conspicuously posted at the sanitary landfill/transfer station
entrance.
   (C)   Landfill/transfer station/waste collection site attendants. Sanitary
landfill/transfer station/waste collection site activities and persons using
the sanitary landfill/transfer station/waste collection sites shall be
supervised and controlled by county employees at all times. It shall be
unlawful for any person to willfully disobey, ignore, or improperly carry out
any legal and proper order or direction of any such employee directed toward
the proper use of the county sanitary landfill, transfer station, or a waste
collection site.
   (D)   Unacceptable wastes.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, the following wastes are
unacceptable at the county sanitary landfill, transfer station or waste
collection site:
         (a)   Hazardous wastes including asbestos material and infectious
waste.
         (b)   Animal carcasses, including fowl, other than pets (i.e., cats
and dogs) and road killed animals.
         (c)   Liquids. Liquids are those wastes which qualify as liquids under
the Environmental Protection Agency definition. Any waste containing less than
25% solids, by weight, is also considered liquid waste.
         (d)   Vehicles. Automobiles, trucks, buses, trailers, farm equipment,
construction vehicles such as bulldozers, cranes, and other like motor vehicles
and equipment.
         (e)   Cable, wire, rope, wire fencing, etc., over three feet in
length.
         (f)   Rigid items over eight feet in length (i.e., pipe, timber,
metal, construction materials, etc.).
         (g)   Closed drums.
         (h)   Slaughterhouse waste.
         (i)   Unapproved seafood by-product waste.
         (j)   Unapproved industrial process waste.
         (k)   Unapproved sewage sludge.
         (l)   Improperly prepared containers such as paint cans and pesticide
containers.
      (2)   Unapproved solid wastes.  The County Administrator is authorized to
establish procedures for authorizing persons wishing to dispose of unapproved
wastes such as pesticide containers, industrial process waste, and sewage
sludge to request approval for disposal of same at the county sanitary
landfill. Persons wishing to dispose of unapproved waste shall make application
for same to the County Administrator.
   (E)   Material separation. For acceptance at the sanitary landfill and
transfer station, the following types of solid waste shall be separated from
other acceptable waste: tree stumps, brush, tires, batteries, and such other
materials as may from time to time be so designated by the County
Administrator. Brush shall be piled in an area which will prevent interference
with normal landfill operations and shall be covered or burned periodically.
Tree stumps shall be placed in an area which will prevent interference with
normal landfill operations and shall be covered periodically. Unsplit tires,
batteries and such other items as may from time to time be designated by the
County Administrator shall be placed in a temporary storage area for subsequent
disposition.
   (F)   Fees. The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, establish and from
time to time change user fees for disposal of solid waste for any class or type
of solid waste at the county sanitary landfill and/or transfer station. Any
such fees collected shall be deposited with the County Treasurer and used for
construction, expansion, and/or operation of the county's solid waste
management facilities.
      (1)   Fee structure.
         (a)   With the exception of the exclusions in subsection (b) below, a
fee for the use of the county sanitary landfill and transfer station shall be
charged for all solid waste entering the site in accordance with the provisions
set forth herein. Said fee for materials accepted other than tires and
batteries at the sanitary landfill shall be determined on weight of material
accepted and shall be at rates set from time to time by the Board of
Supervisors.
         (b)   Exclusions.
            1.   County of Northampton.
            2.   Northampton County School System when collected and
transported in or by vehicles owned and operated by the school system or the
county.
            3.   Riverside Shore Memorial Hospital when collected and
transported in or by vehicles owned and operated by the county.
            4.   Virginia Department of Transportation when disposing of litter
collected along the highway, road-killed animals, gutter-pulling (ditch
cleaning) and debris such as limbs and brush removed from rights-of-way after a
storm.
            5.    Virginia Division of Game & Inland Fisheries when disposing
of road-killed animals.
         (c)   1.   Persons disposing of solid waste at the sanitary landfill
or transfer station, the weight of which does not exceed 400 pounds, shall not
be charged. Should the weight of solid waste exceed 400 pounds, the rates set
by the Board of Supervisors shall apply to the excess over 400 pounds.
            2.   This waiver of fee and weight shall be limited to the first
entrance per customer per day and shall not apply to persons transporting solid
waste for hire or to credit customers.
         (d)   Tires. There shall be a per tire fee for tires disposed of at
the county sanitary landfill, as established from time to time by the Board of
Supervisors.
         (e)   Batteries. There shall be a per battery fee for batteries
disposed of at the county sanitary landfill, as established from time to time
by the Board of Supervisors, shall be based on battery size.
      (2)   Credit accounts. The County Administrator is authorized to arrange
credit accounts for persons making regular use of the county sanitary landfill.
   (G)   Vehicle identification tag.
      (1)   Commercial solid waste use permit holders and credit customers must
display a vehicle identification tag on each solid waste transport vehicle,
trailer, and roll-off container entering the sanitary landfill. The vehicle
identification tag shall be prominently displayed on the driver's side of the
vehicle on or immediately forward of the driver's door in the case of a
motorized vehicle. When displayed on a trailer or roll-off container, the
vehicle identification tag shall be placed on the left side near the front left
corner as near to eye level as possible. Identification tags are available at
the Office of the County Administrator for a fee of $1 each.
      (2)   Vehicles operated by the County of Northampton, Northampton County
School Board and municipal corporations shall be provided vehicle
identification tags at no charge. The Virginia Department of Transportation and
Virginia Division of Game & Inland Fisheries are not required to display
vehicle identification tags.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.10 PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of
collecting, transporting, and/or disposing of solid waste in the county to use
the county's sanitary landfill without first obtaining a commercial solid waste
use permit.
   (B)   Permit application. A commercial solid waste use permit may be
obtained by making application to the Office of the County Administrator. Such
application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable processing fee of $25.
Only one permit per firm is required.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.11 WASTE COLLECTION SITES.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Supervisors from time to time may
authorize establishment of waste collection sites at locations deemed
appropriate to serve the residents of the county. Sites shall be selected with
due regard for convenience of residents and economy of solid waste management.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Transfer sites shall be open to the general public
on a regular schedule. The County Administrator is authorized to set the days
and hours of operation.
   (C)   Use. 
      (1)   Waste collection sites shall be available for use by persons
residing or conducting business in Northampton County. Transfer sites are for
disposal of limited quantities of household waste with such disposal being
limited to volumes as established by the Board from time-to-time through
policy.
      (2)   Restrictions. Commercial solid waste use permit holders and credit
customers may not dispose of solid waste at waste collection sites. Solid waste
transported by these persons must be disposed of in the county sanitary
landfill or transfer station.
   (D)   Unacceptable wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of
the following wastes at waste collection sites:
      (1)   Commercial waste;
      (2)   Industrial process waste;
      (3)   Construction materials or demolition debris such as, but not
limited to, timbers, bricks, metal rods, shingles and concrete;
      (4)   Trees, brush, stumps, soil and other debris from land clearing,
road building, and similar activities;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Improperly prepared containers such as paint cans and pesticide
containers;
      (7)   Animal carcasses of any kind;
      (8)   Sewage sludge;
      (9)   Ashes, coals and embers from solid fuel fired devices.
   (E)   Boxes. Empty cardboard boxes, crates, and similar containers shall be
cut and flattened prior to placement in solid waste containers at waste
collection sites.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.12 PRIVATELY LICENSED SOLID WASTE FACILITIES.  
   Provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those persons licensed or
permitted by the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality or the
Northampton County Health Department or any other state agency authorized by
law or regulation to control such facilities. Nor does it apply to the disposal
of such items as are approved by those agencies for disposal in an approved
private sanitary landfill or waste disposal facility.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be a
Class I misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $2,500 or not more than 12 months in jail, or both. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Open dumps. In addition to any penalties provided herein, whenever the
Board of Supervisors deems it necessary, said Board of Supervisors may, after
30 days written notice, have such solid waste in open dumps removed by its own
agents or employees, in which event the cost or expense thereof shall be
chargeable to and paid by the owner or owners of such property on which such
solid waste was located and may be collected by the county as taxes and levies
are collected. Every charge authorized by this section and with which the owner
of such property shall have been assessed and which remains unpaid shall
constitute a lien against such property.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
CHAPTER 51: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 52: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 53: WATER PROTECTION
Section
   
53.01   Authority and purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   General requirements
   
53.04   Variance
   
53.05   Oil-water separation requirements
§ 53.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter, to be cited as the Ground Water Protection
Ordinance of Northampton County, Virginia, is hereby ordained, enacted, and
published by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County, Virginia pursuant
to the provisions of Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VIII Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended.
   (B)   Intent and purposes.
      (1)   Intent.  This chapter is intended to be in accord with and to
implement the goals, objectives, and policies set forth in the Comprehensive
Plan of Northampton County adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton
County.
      (2)   Purposes.
         (a)   The regulations that follow are part of a comprehensive and
longrange program to implement reasonable provisions, not inconsistent with
applicable state water quality standards, to protect surface and ground water
as defined in VA Code § 62.1-255. More specifically, the purpose of these
regulations is to require variations in the sizes of lots based on whether a
public or community water supply or sewer system is available and used, as in
accord with VA Code § 15.2-2283.
         (b)   The Eastern Shore of the state depends entirely on a limited
supply of ground water for potable water demand, as well as for most non-
potable demands. For this reason, the Eastern Shore of Virginia has been
designated a Virginia Ground Water Management Area under the Ground Water
Management Act of 1992, VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter 25. In 1997 the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency designated the aquifers beneath the Eastern
Shore of Virginia, with the exception of Chincoteague Island and Tangier
Island, as an EPA Sole Source Aquifer.
         (c)   Under the Ground Water Management Act of 1992, the state has
adopted regulations that are implemented by the Department of Environmental
Quality. These regulations apply only to individual ground water withdrawals in
excess of 300,000 gallons in a single month. The Eastern Shore of Virginia
Ground Water Supply Protection and Management Plan (1992) and the Technical
Analysis for Ground Water Ordinances on the Eastern Shore of Virginia (2001)
document the potential for multiple individual ground water withdrawals in
close proximity to each other to exceed the 300,000 gallons per month threshold
that would require a ground water withdrawal permit for a single well.
         (d)   Threats to ground water on the Eastern Shore may be placed into
three general categories: (1) saltwater intrusion; (2) hydraulic head
depression; and (3) contamination from surface sources. Certain residential
developments, commercial businesses and industries that are served by
individual private wells can have adverse effects on ground water levels and
quality. Certain ground water withdrawals that individually do not exceed the
state limit may, in aggregate with other nearby users, greatly exceed that
amount. These aggregated withdrawals have the potential to have as much impact
on the ground water resource as an individual permitted withdrawal. This ground
water protection ordinance is intended to ensure protection and wise management
of the ground water resource for both existing uses and future growth in the
county.
(Ord. passed 6-23-03)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE EFFECT. Reductions in ground water levels or changes in ground water
quality that limit the ground water use associated with any ground water user
lawfully withdrawing or authorized to withdraw ground water at the time of
application approval.
   APPLICANT. An individual, partnership, association, or corporation proposing
to use ground water as a source of potable water supply.
   AQUIFER. A stratum or zone below the ground surface that will yield water in
a usable quantity to a well.
   AREA OF IMPACT.  The areal extent of each aquifer where more than one foot
of drawdown is predicted to occur due to a proposed ground water withdrawal.
   CENTRAL SYSTEM. A water or wastewater system that serves 33 or more
properties.
   CLOSED-LOOP GROUND-SOURCE HEAT PUMP WELL. A well consisting of a sealed loop
of plastic pipe buried beneath the earth's surface to allow heat transfer
between the fluid and the pipe in the earth.
   CLUSTER SYSTEM.  A water or wastewater system that serves fewer than 33
properties.
   DEEP AQUIFER.  A confined or semi-confined aquifer, typically referred to as
the Yorktown-Eastover aquifer and typically occurs greater than 50 feet below
the surface.
    DEVELOPMENT, NEW.  The new construction, or substantial alteration, of
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, recreation, transportation,
or utility facilities or structures which involves an increase in impervious
surface.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL CON-NECTION.  A volume of water used equal to a
residential connection which is 400 gallons per day unless supportive data
indicates otherwise.
   GROUND WATER. Any water, except capillary moisture, found under the ground
surface in the zone of saturation or beneath the bed of any stream, lake,
reservoir or other body of surface wholly or partially within the boundaries of
this Commonwealth, whatever the subsurface geologic structure in which such
water stands, flows, percolates or otherwise occurs (As defined in VA Code §
62.1-255).
   HYDROGEOLOGIC INVESTIGATION. An evaluation to define the hydrogeologic
characteristics of an aquifer or confining unit including, but not limited to,
pumping tests.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACES.  Areas that do not allow significant quantities of
water to penetrate.
   MASS OR COMMUNITY SUBSURFACE DRAINFIELD.  A sewage disposal system or
systems which will discharge effluent to a single absorption area or multiple
absorption areas with or without combined flows, such that the loading rate
applied to any acre, in accordance with Virginia Sewage Handling and Disposal
Regulations, exceeds 1,200 gallons per day.
   MITIGATION.  Actions necessary to assure that all ground water users within
the proposed development and other existing ground water users, who experience
adverse impacts as a result of the new withdrawals, continue to have access to
the quantity and quality of water needed for their uses.
   OBSERVATION WELL. A well for obtaining information on hydraulic
characteristics and water quality of an aquifer.
   PRODUCTION WELL. A well designed to supply adequate yield and water quality
for its intended use and meeting County and Health Department requirements.
   SALT WATER INTRUSION. Encroachment of saline or brackish water into an
aquifer that results in adverse effects.
   STABILIZED YIELD.  Measured drawdown in the well at the end of a minimum
eight-hour constant rate pumping test.
   TWO-WELL SYSTEM. An individual or centralized well system that consists of
separate wells for potable and non-potables uses. In such a system, the well(s)
for non-potable uses are screened in the water table aquifer.
   WATER TABLE AQUIFER.  The uppermost, unconfined water-bearing unit,
typically occurring within 40-90 feet of the land surface.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION. The assessment of potential threats to ground water,
and planning and managing land uses to prevent contamination and overuse of
groundwater supplies.
(Ord. passed 6-23-03)
§ 53.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any new developments that have an average density more than I
Equivalent Residential Connection (ERC) per 1/2 acre for any contiguous area of
the development with 33 or more ERCs, or 50 or more ERC for cluster
developments, will be required to have one of the following ground water
protection measures:
      (1)   A centralized wastewater collection and treatment system (WCTS).
      (2)   Septic drainfields that are designed for 1.5 times normal capacity.
      (3)   An exception to the requirements of division (A), including the
installation of alternative on-site wastewater disposal systems, may be granted
upon approval of a variance by the Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals,
as described in §
53.04.
   (B)   All new developments of 33 or more ERC, cluster developments with 50
or more ERC, or new developments with 4 ERC or more located within 1/4 mile of
an aggregated groundwater withdrawal of 33 or more ERC, must submit to the
Zoning Administrator the measures that will be taken to prevent over pumpage of
ground water, in addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section.
Ground-source heat pumps used for heating or cooling are restricted to using
closed-loop ground-source heat pump wells as specified in the Virginia
Department of Health Regulations 12 VAC 5-630-10 et seq. Ultra-low-flow
plumbing fixtures are required, as specified in the Virginia State Wide
Building Code, as well as one of the following measures:
      (1)   Two-well systems.
      (2)   A centralized water supply system.
      (3)   An exception to the requirements of division (B) may be granted
upon approval of a variance by the Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals,
as described in §
53.04.
(Ord. passed 6-23-03)
§ 53.04 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Granting variances. The Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals has
the authority to grant a variance to the requirements of §
53.03 in cases where it can be demonstrated that a development will have no
adverse impact on ground water resources, or that alternative measures will
protect ground water. In order to be considered for a variance, an application
must be submitted to the Northampton County Department of Planning and Zoning.
   (B)   Initial application.
      (1)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Site plan or subdivision plan showing the number and sizes of
lots. A location plan showing the relative location of the area within
Northampton County shall also be included.
         (b)   An analysis of average and maximum daily water demands to be
supplied by the proposed production wells.
         (c)   1.   Identification of proposed well screen depths and results
of a hydrogeologic investigation. The hydrogeologic investigation shall, at a
minimum, report the information required by the Commonwealth of Virginia Water
Well Completion Report Form (Form GW-2) and Virginia Department of Health
Uniform Water Well Completion Report Form. The stabilized yield and water
levels required under Item 2 of Form GW-2 shall be determined from constant
pumping rate of the well.
            2.   The number of observation wells to be constructed as part of
the hydrogeologic investigation shall, at a minimum, comply with the number
specified in the table below. Construction and location of the observation
wells can be such that they may be converted to production wells, pending
approval by the Virginia Department of Health.
 
Number of ERCs Number of Observation Wells
< 33           2
33-75          5
76-100         6
101 - 200      7
> 200          Add One Additional Well Per 100 Lots (e.g.: 201-300 lots = 8
               wells; 301-400 lots = 9 wells)
 
         (d)   Water quality analyses of ground water at the proposed
development. At a minimum the following will be analyzed for: Calcium,
magnesium, iron, manganese, potassium, sodium, chloride, sulfate, nitrate,
alkalinity, total dissolved solids, and fecal coliforms. Sample depth shall
coincide with proposed well screen depth.
         (e)   Physical characteristics that identify soil type and slopes,
quantity of green space, impervious surfaces, and storm water management plan.
         (f)   Proposed ground water development plans, including number of
wells, location of wells, capacity per well and well screen interval.
         (g)   Mitigation measures that, at a minimum, comply with the
requirements listed in division (E) of this below.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator will review the variance application and
present a staff report to the Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals. After
reviewing the application, and after conducting a public hearing, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may act on the variance application. Approval of the application
will be determined based on the applicant's ability to demonstrate that the
proposed potable water well(s) will have no adverse effect on the quality or
quantity of ground water within the proposed development and adjacent areas.
If, during the application review process, the Zoning Administrator or Board of
Zoning Appeals determines that supplemental information is required to evaluate
the applicant's proposed ground water use, the Zoning Administrator will notify
the applicant in writing what supplemental information the applicant must
submit prior to the Board of Zoning Appeals rendering a decision on the
application. Supplemental information that may be required of the applicant is
described in division (C) below.
   (C)   Supplemental Information. The following supplemental information may
be required by the Zoning Administrator or Board of Zoning Appeals to provide
additional data necessary to adequately evaluate the application for potable
water wells. The specific information required will be determined on a case-by-
case basis.
      (1)   Water quality analysis for samples collected from overlying and/or
underlying aquifers.
      (2)   A ground water flow model to predict the ground water levels and
amount of drawdown resulting from the proposed withdrawals. At a minimum, the
model will predict the area of impact from the proposed withdrawals. The ground
water flow model can vary from simple analytical calculations to more complex
computer based one-dimension, two-dimensional, and three-dimensional flow
models.
      (3)   Salt water intrusion model to predict the potential for movement of
brackish ground water resulting from the pumping. The salt water intrusion
model may be either a two-dimensional or three-dimensional model and may
account for both lateral and vertical movement (upcoming) of ground water.
Specific requirements for evaluating salt water intrusion will be determined on
a case-by-case basis.
      (4)   A wellhead protection model accepted by the US EPA, such as the US
EPA WHPA model to evaluate the susceptibility of the wells to contamination.
   (D)   Application review.  The application will be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator and may also be reviewed by other agencies/parties, such as the
Eastern Shore of Virginia Ground Water Committee, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. The applicant is responsible for the cost of any third-party
engineering review of the application, if agreed to by the applicant. If the
applicant does not agree to pay for the cost of third-party engineering review,
the application shall be considered withdrawn.
   (E)   Mitigation plan.
      (1)   In cases where it is determined that an adverse effect is likely,
the applicant has the option of providing a plan to mitigate these effects. If
the Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals determines that the mitigation
plan adequately addresses the adverse effects, the Zoning Administrator will
approve the application. If the Northampton County Board of Zoning Appeals
determines that the proposed potable water wells will have an adverse effect on
the quality or quantity of ground water within the proposed development and
adjacent areas that are not mitigated, the Zoning Administrator will issue a
letter denying the application.
      (2)   Types of mitigation considered are:
         (a)   Implementation of Best Management Practices (BMP's).
         (b)   Compensation to adversely impacted ground water users.
      (3)   Best Management Practices may include, but are not limited to,
recharge basins, buffer areas, or other site-specific methods that will
eliminate the adverse impact to the ground water resource and other existing
ground water users. The applicant must provide information on the intended BMP
such as site plans, adequately document how the BMP will prevent adverse
impacts to the ground water resource or other existing ground water users, and
provide a monitoring plan where applicable to demonstrate that the BMP is
performing as designed.
      (4)   Alternatively, where the variance request applies to a variance
from the water supply requirements, the applicant shall provide and implement a
plan that will compensate existing ground water users for adverse effects on
their ability to use the ground water resource. The mitigation plan is non-
exclusive and may not be applied or construed to bar a claimant's recourse to
conventional legal or equitable remedies in the event of loss or impairment of
water supply. At a minimum, the Mitigation Plan will conform to the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality requirements for permitted users in a
Ground Water Management Area. Specifically, the plan must include.
         (a)   The rebuttable presumption that water level or water quality
declines that cause adverse impacts to existing wells within the area of impact
are due to the proposed withdrawal.
         (b)    A commitment by the applicant to mitigate undisputed adverse
impacts due to the proposed withdrawal in a timely fashion.
         (c)   A speedy, nonexclusive, low-cost process to fairly resolve
disputed claims for mitigation between the applicant and any other claimant.
         (d)   The requirement that the claimant provide documentation that
they are the owner of the well; documentation that the well was constructed and
operated prior to initiation of the applicant's withdrawal; the depth of the
well, the pump, the screens, and any other construction information that the
claimant possesses; the location of the well with enough specificity that it
can be located in the field; the historic yield of the well, if available;
historic water levels for the well, if available; and the reasons the claimant
believes that the applicant's withdrawals have caused an adverse impact on the
well. The mitigation plan extends to comparable replacement wells installed by
existing groundwater users after the effective date of the permit. Existing
groundwater users shall not be prejudiced by exclusion from the mitigation plan
by virtue of their repair or replacement of existing wells with comparable
wells.
   (5)   An example Mitigation Plan may be obtained from the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. passed 6-23-03)
§ 53.05 OIL-WATER SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. All new commercial or industrial facilities with the
potential to discharge oil-contaminated stormwater, wash water, or other
process wastewater shall be required to treat the discharge by oil-water
separation technology. These facilities include, but are not limited to,
automotive service shops, automotive maintenance facilities, machinery
maintenance facilities, and vehicle washing facilities. Parking areas used by
the customers and employees of commercial and industrial facilities shall be
exempted from this requirement.
   (B)   Design. Oil-water separators must be designed to collect and treat all
water that has a reasonable potential to contact oil, grease, or other
petroleum products. For washing facilities, the devices(s) must be sized (at a
minimum) to treat the maximum flow of wash water. If the device(s) are intended
to treat stormwater, they must be sized (at a minimum) to collect and treat the
peak flow that would result from a two-year, one-hour storm event.
   (C)   Maintenance. The facility operators must visually inspect the oil-
water separator(s) at least monthly, and oil/solids must be removed as needed
to ensure proper operation. All oil-water separators must be inspected for
system integrity at least annually by qualified individuals, and records of the
inspections must be maintained at the facility for a minimum of three years and
provided to the Zoning Administrator if requested. All oil removed from the
devices must be recycled or otherwise disposed of according to the requirements
of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).
   (D)   Exception. The requirements of this section may be waived for car
washing facilities that operate under a General Virginia Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (VPDES) Permit for Car Wash Facilities. In order to be
granted an exception, the owner or operator must provide a written request for
exception to the Northampton County Zoning Department, as well as a copy of
their general VPDES permit. Other exception requests may be made by applying
for a variance in accordance with §
53.04. Such variance application shall be accompanied by a technical
justification prepared by a civil engineer.
(Ord. passed 6-23-03)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   (RESERVED)
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Adoption of state law
   
70.03   Applicability within incorporated towns
   
70.04   Reimbursement of expenses incurred in responding to DUI and other
traffic incidents
   
70.05   Reimbursement of expenses incurred in responding to terrorism hoax
incident or bomb threat
   
70.06   (Reserved)
   
70.07   (Reserved)
   
70.08   Temporary removal and disposition of vehicles involved in accidents
   
70.09   Removal and disposition of unattended vehicles
   
70.10   (Reserved)
   
70.11   (Reserved)
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   The provisions of this title shall be known as the "Northampton County
Traffic Ordinance" or the "Traffic Ordinance" and may be so cited.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Pursuant to the authority of VA Code Title 46.2, Chapter 13, as amended, all
of the provisions and requirements of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia
contained in VA Code Title 46.2, VA Code Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9, §§
16.1 278 et seq. and in VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2, §§ 18.2 266
et seq., as amended, and in force on July 1, 2013, except those provisions and
requirements the violation of which constitutes a felony, and except those
provisions and regulations which by their very nature can have no application
to or within Northampton County (the "county"), are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and made applicable within the county.
References to "highways of the state" contained in such provisions and
requirements hereby adopted shall be deemed to refer to the streets, highways
and other public ways within the county. Such provisions and requirements are
hereby adopted, mutatis mutandis, and made a part of this section as fully as
though set forth at length herein, and it shall be unlawful for any person,
within the county to violate or fail, neglect or refuse to comply with, any
provision of VA Code Title 46.2 or VA Code Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9;
VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2, as amended, and effective on July 1,
2013, which are adopted hereby; provided, that the penalties imposed for the
violation of any provision or requirement hereby adopted shall be the same as
the penalty imposed for a similar offense under VA Code Title 46.2 and under VA
Code Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9 or of VA Code Title 18.2, Chapter 7,
Article 2, as amended, and effective on July 1, 2013. Amendments to such state
law hereafter adopted shall be incorporated herein on their respective
effective dates unless specifically rejected by the governing body of this
county.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-9-2003;
Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-06;
Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2008; Am. Ord. passed 8-11-
2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2010; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011; Am. Ord. passed 6-
11-2013)
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY WITHIN INCORPORATED TOWNS.
   The provisions of this title shall be applicable within the corporate limits
of any incorporated town within the county in which the traffic is not
regulated by town ordinances; provided, however, that the provisions hereof
shall be applicable on property owned by Northampton County and located within
the corporate limits of any such town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
§ 70.04 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED IN RESPONDING TO DUI AND OTHER
TRAFFIC INCIDENTS.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any of the of the following
provisions shall, at the time of sentencing, be liable to Northampton County
for restitution of reasonable expenses incurred by Northampton County for
responding law enforcement when issuing any related arrest warrant or summons,
for firefighting, and/or emergency medical services, in the amount of $350,
which shall be imposed as a flat fee per accident or incident for response by
the county.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the following provisions
shall, at the time of sentencing, be liable to any responding volunteer fire
department, volunteer rescue squad, or both, for restitution of reasonable
expenses incurred by such department, squad, or both for responding
firefighting and/or emergency medical services. Each such volunteer fire
department or volunteer rescue squad may bill a flat fee of $350 or a minute-
by-minute accounting of the actual costs incurred.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   The provisions of VA Code §§ 18.2-36.1, 18.2-51.4, 18.2-266, 18.2-
266.1, 29.1-738, 29.1-738.02 or 46.2-341.24, or a similar ordinance, when such
operation of a motor vehicle, engine, train or watercraft while so impaired is
the proximate cause of the accident or incident;
      (2)   The provisions of VA Code Article 7 (§§ 46.2-852 et seq.) of
Chapter 8 of Title 46.2 relating to reckless driving, when such reckless
driving is the proximate cause of the accident or incident;
      (3)   The provisions of VA Code Article 1 (§§ 46.2-300 et seq.) of
Chapter 3 of Title 46.2 relating to driving without a license; and
      (4)   The provisions of VA Code § 46.2-894 relating to improperly leaving
the scene of an accident.
   (D)   Personal liability under this section for reasonable expenses of an
appropriate emergency response pursuant to subsection (C)(1) shall not exceed
$1,000 in the aggregate for a particular accident, arrest, or incident
occurring in the county.
   (E)   As used in this section, APPROPRIATE EMERGENCY RESPONSE includes all
costs of providing law enforcement, firefighting, rescue and emergency medical
services.
   (F)   The court may order as restitution the reasonable expenses incurred by
the county for responding law enforcement, firefighting, rescue and emergency
medical services.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall not preempt or limit any remedy
available to the Commonwealth, to the County or to any volunteer firefighting
or rescue squad to recover the reasonable expenses of an emergency response to
an accident or incident not involving impaired driving, operation of a vehicle
or other conduct as set forth herein.
   (H)   This section is enacted pursuant to VA Code 1950, § 15.2-1716 and is
effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2016)
§ 70.05 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED IN RESPONDING TO TERRORISM HOAX
INCIDENT OR BOMB THREAT.
   (A)    Any person who is convicted of a violation of subsection B or C of VA
Code § 18.2-46.6, when his violation of such section is the proximate cause of
any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency response, shall be liable at
the time of sentencing to Northampton County in the amount of $250, which shall
be imposed as a flat fee per accident or incident for response by the County.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of subsection B or C of VA
Code § 18.2-46.6, when his violation of such section is the proximate cause of
any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency response, shall be liable to
any volunteer rescue squad or volunteer fire department which may provide such
emergency response for the reasonable expense thereof, for restitution of
reasonable expenses incurred by such department, squad, or both for responding
firefighting and/or emergency medical services. Each such volunteer fire
department or volunteer rescue squad may bill a flat fee of $250 or a minute-
by-minute accounting of the actual costs incurred.
   (C)   Personal liability under this section for reasonable expenses of an
appropriate emergency response pursuant to subsection in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 in the aggregate for a particular incident occurring in
Northampton County.
   (D)   As used in this section, APPROPRIATE EMERGENCY RESPONSE includes all
costs of providing law enforcement, fire-fighting, rescue, and emergency
medical services.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not preempt or limit any remedy
available to the Commonwealth, to Northampton County or to any volunteer rescue
squad to recover the reasonable expenses of an emergency response to an
incident not involving a terroristic hoax as set forth herein of an act
undertaken in violation of VA Code § 18.2-83 or 18.2-84.
   (F)   This section is enacted pursuant to VA Code 1950 § 15.2-1716.1, as
amended and is effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2016)
§ 70.06 (RESERVED)
§ 70.07 (RESERVED)
§ 70.08 TEMPORARY REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES INVOLVED IN ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer involved in an
accident is so located as to impede the orderly flow of traffic, the police or
other uniformed employee of the local law-enforcement agency who specifically
is authorized to do so by the chief law-enforcement officer or his designee
may:
      (1)   At no cost to the owner or operator remove the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer to some point in the vicinity where it will not impede
the flow of traffic; or
      (2)   Have the vehicle removed to a storage area for safekeeping and
shall report the removal to the Department of Motor Vehicles of the
Commonwealth of Virginia and to the owner of the vehicle as promptly as
possible. If the vehicle is removed to a storage area under this division (A)
(2), the owner shall pay to the parties entitled thereto all costs incidental
to its removal and storage.
   (B)   This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in VA Code §
46.2-1212.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 70.09 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-1213:
   (A)   A uniformed deputy or other employee of the Northampton County
Sheriff's Department who is specifically authorized by the Sheriff or his
designee may order the removal for safekeeping of any motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer, or parts thereof, if it is:
      (1)   Found on the public highway or right-of- way thereof unattended by
the owner or operator and same constitutes a hazard to traffic; or
      (2)   Illegally parked; or
      (3)   Left unattended for more than ten days either upon public property
or on privately owned property without the permission of the property owner,
lessee, or occupant; or
      (4)   Immobilized on a public roadway by weather conditions or other
emergency situation; or
      (5)   Presumed to be abandoned under the criteria set out in VA Code §
46.2-1213.
   (B)   The removal authorized in division (A) above shall be carried out by
or under the direction uniformed deputy or other employee of the Northampton
County Sheriff's Department who is specifically authorized by the Sheriff or
his designee. Provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize removal of motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers, and parts thereof
from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the premises. A person at whose request the motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer, or part of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer is removed
from private property shall indemnify the county, city, or town against any
loss or expense incurred by reason of removal, storage, or sale thereof. As
promptly as possible, the removal of any such motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer, or parts thereof, shall be reported to the County Administrator of
Northampton County and to the owner of the property removed. Before obtaining
possession of the motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or part thereof, the
owner shall pay to the parties entitled thereto all costs incidental to its
removal and storage and locating the owner. If the owner fails or refuses to
pay the cost or if his identity or whereabouts is unknown and unascertainable
after a diligent search has been made, and after notice to him at his last
known address and to the holder of any lien of record with the office of the
Department against the motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or part of a motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, the vehicle shall be treated as an abandoned
vehicle under the provisions of VA Code Title 46.2, Article 1, as amended.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991; Am. Ord. passed 11--19-2013)
§ 70.10 (RESERVED)
§ 70.11 (RESERVED)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as
set out in VA Code § 46.2-113.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 71: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking on private property
   
72.02   Leaving vehicles upon private property prohibited; removal and
disposition thereof; notice of disposition
   
72.03   Presumption where vehicle illegally parked
   
72.04   Fire lanes
   
72.05   Mailboxes
§ 72.01 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a vehicle on any
private lot or lot area without the express or implied consent of the owner
thereof. Whenever signs or markings have been erected on any lot or lot area,
contiguous or adjacent to a highway, thoroughfare, or alley, indicating that no
vehicles are permitted to stand or park thereon, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive a vehicle across any curb or lot line or over any driveway from
a highway or alley into such lot or area for the purpose of standing or parking
such vehicle or for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle in such lot
or lot area.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02 LEAVING VEHICLES UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AND
DISPOSITION THEREOF; NOTICE OF DISPOSITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer, or part thereof, on the private property of another
person without his consent.
   (B)   Upon complaint of the owner of the property on which such motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, or part thereof, has been abandoned for more
than ten days, such motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, or part thereof, may
be removed by or under the direction of a police officer to a storage garage or
area; provided, that the person at whose request such motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer, or part thereof, is so removed shall indemnify the county against
any loss or expense incurred by reason of removal, storage or sale thereof.
   (C)   In the case of the removal of a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer,
or part thereof, from private property, when the same cannot be readily sold,
such motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, or part thereof, may be disposed of
in such manner as the governing body of the county may provide. In all other
respects, the provisions of §
70.09 shall apply to such removals; provided, that disposal of a motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer may at the option of the governing body be carried out
under either the provisions of §
70.09 or under the provisions of this section, after a diligent search for the
owner, after notice to him at his last known address and to the holder of any
lien of record in the office of the division of motor vehicles of this state
against such motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and after the motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer has been held at least 60 days.
   (D)   The division of motor vehicles shall be notified of the disposition of
any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer under §
70.09 or the provision hereof.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.03 PRESUMPTION WHERE VEHICLE ILLEGALLY PARKED.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any parking regulation contained
in this title, proof that the vehicle described in the complaint, summons or
warrant was parked in violation of such regulation, together with proof that
the defendant was at the time of such parking the registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute a prima facie presumption that such registered owner
of the vehicle was the person who parked the vehicle at the place where, and
for the time during which, the violation occurred.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1991)
§ 72.04 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No vehicles except emergency or law enforcement vehicles shall be
parked in any area clearly marked "Fire Lane" within a privately owned parking
lot or facility. For the purposes of this section, emergency vehicles shall
include fire trucks, ambulances and vehicles being actively used for some
purpose relating to the fight of fire or other delivery of emergency services.
   (B)   No person shall be considered to have violated this section unless the
area in which parking is prohibited is clearly identified and marked with the
words "Fire Lane".
   (C)   A summons or parking ticket charging an offense under this section may
be issued by law enforcement officers and other uniformed personnel employed by
the county to enforce parking regulations without the necessity of a warrant
being obtained by the owner of a private parking area.
   (D)   In any prosecution charging a violation of this section, proof that
the vehicles described in the complaint, summons, parking ticket citation, or
warrant was parked in violation of this section, together with proof that the
defendant was at the time the registered owner of the vehicle, as required by
VA Code § 46.2-600 et seq., shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who
committed the violation.
   (E)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor.
   (F)   This provisions of this section shall not be applicable within the
corporate limits of any incorporated town within Northampton County in which
parking in fire lanes is regulated by town ordinances, provided, however, that
the provisions hereof shall be applicable on property owned by Northampton
County and located within said corporate limits and within the limits of any
incorporated town in which parking in fire lanes is not regulated by town
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 72.05 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-1220, vehicles shall be prohibited from
parking in such location as to block access to mailboxes located on public or
private property. Disabled vehicles and emergency vehicles and equipment are
exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   In any prosecution charging a violation of this section, proof that
the vehicle described in the complaint, summons, parking ticket citation or
warrant, was parked in violation of this section, together with proof that the
defendant was at the time the registered owner of the vehicle, as required by
VA Code §§ 46.2-600 et seq., as amended, shall constitute in evidence a prima
facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who
committed the violation.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   DOCKS AND RAMPS
   
91.   HARBORS
   
92.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES
   
93.   (RESERVED)
   
94.   NUISANCES
   
95.   ANIMALS
   
96.   OPERATION OF VESSELS ON COUNTY WATERWAYS
   
97.   OPEN BURNING
   
98.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: DOCKS AND RAMPS
Section
Docks and Ramps in Northampton County
   
90.01   Decreasing speed of motorboats
   
90.02   Use of public ramps
   
90.03   Public dock loading zone
   
90.04   Loading or unloading boat
   
90.05   Camping prohibited
   
90.06   Deposit of refuse and the like prohibited
   
90.07   Sinking boat prohibited
Public Docks at Oyster
   
90.20   Public docks
   
90.21   Public Dock Committee; powers
   
90.22   Use of public docks
   
90.23   Private business on public docks
   
90.24   Dumping
   
90.25   Disposal of wreckage
DOCKS AND RAMPS IN NORTHAMPTON COUNTY
§ 90.01 DECREASING SPEED OF MOTORBOATS.
   (A)   Every motorboat, when approaching or passing a public dock, pier or
ramp, shall slacken speed to the extent necessary to avoid endangering persons
or property by the effect of the motorboat’s wake and when operated within 300
feet of a public dock, pier or ramp every motorboat shall be operated at a
reduced speed such that the vessel can be stopped, if necessary, prior to
striking the public dock, pier or ramp or other motorboats making use of said
facilities; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prevent a
motorboat from pulling up to or tying to the public dock, pier or ramp if the
action is undertaken with due care and is not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (B)   Every motorboat, when operated in an area posted with "No Wake" signs,
shall slacken speed to the extent necessary to avoid endangering persons or
property by the effect of the motorboat's wake.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
§ 90.02 USE OF PUBLIC RAMPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use a public ramp for any purpose other than
for the loading and unloading of boats on to and off of trailers and vehicles.
   (B)   When utilizing a public ramp, a vehicle and trailer shall have the
right of use over a boat. Therefore, it shall be unlawful for any boat to be
operated in such a manner as to block a public ramp slip so as to prevent the
loading or unloading of another boat by a vehicle and trailer which is located
at the public ramp.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park, tie or leave in any manner a boat,
trailer, vehicle or combination thereof in a public ramp slip for more than 15
minutes continuous.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle, trailer or combination thereof
in such a way as to prevent free access to a public boat ramp. Where areas are
so marked, it shall be unlawful to park a vehicle, trailer or combination
thereof in any place near or adjacent to any public dock or ramp other than the
designated parking area, or in any manner other than the designated parking
manner, as may be indicated by appropriate signs and parking designations as
may be placed at the direction of the public body having control over the use
of the public dock or ramp; provided, however, that nothing contained herein
shall prevent the use of a public ramp for the loading and unloading of boats.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03 PUBLIC DOCK LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful to tie or otherwise secure any boat to a public dock
loading zone except while actually loading or unloading the boat and for not
more than five minutes prior to and following the loading or unloading.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.04 LOADING OR UNLOADING BOAT.
   It shall be unlawful to load or unload a boat at a pubic dock or ramp except
on the offside of the walkway of the public dock or ramp.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to camp either inside or outside of a motor vehicle at
any public ramp or public dock or any public property near or adjacent to the
public ramp or dock.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 DEPOSIT OF REFUSE AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, or cause to be deposited, in any of
the waters, along the shores thereof, in any of the streams or ditches therein,
or on any land adjacent to any public ramp or dock any refuse, offal, waste
matter or material, whether earth, oil, liquid, animal, fish or vegetable
matter, that may be injurious to the sanitary, clean and safe condition of the
water or which may diminish the depth thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to dump or otherwise dispose of trash, garbage,
refuse or other unsightly matter at a public ramp, dock or on any public land
adjacent thereto or in the waters adjacent thereto.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 SINKING BOAT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to voluntarily or carelessly sink or cause to be sunk
any boat or other obstacle dangerous to navigation in or around any public ramp
or dock or to float loose timber or logs in said area.
(Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PUBLIC DOCKS AT OYSTER
§ 90.20 PUBLIC DOCKS.
   The docks erected, or to be erected, on property acquired by the County of
Northampton from H. R. Steelman et ux, by deed dated January 31, 1941, and all
docks erected or to be erected on property acquired by the County of
Northampton from G. L. Webster Company, Inc., a corporation, by deed dated
December 17, 1956, are decreed to be public docks for proper use by all persons
on an equal basis.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
§ 90.21 PUBLIC DOCK COMMITTEE; POWERS.
   (A)   There is established a Public Dock Committee of Oyster, Virginia, for
the purpose of regulating and controlling the use of the aforesaid public docks
at Oyster, Northampton County, Virginia. Such Committee is to be appointed by
the Board of Supervisors, shall consist of five persons, residing in
Northampton County, Virginia, and each of the persons shall serve on the
Committee for terms of one year each or until their successors are duly
appointed. In the event the Board of Supervisors fails to appoint a successor
upon the expiration of any member’s existing term, the term of the member shall
automatically be continued until his successor is duly appointed and qualified.
Each member, so appointed, shall qualify by appearing before the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County, Virginia, and executing the oath required
by constitutional officers of this county.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Harbor Committee, above named, to adopt
such additional rules and regulations as it may deem advisable, not
inconsistent herewith, and in conformity with the standards set out in this
subchapter, for the further governing of the use of any of the public docks at
Oyster, Virginia.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
§ 90.22 USE OF PUBLIC DOCKS.
   (A)   The public docks shall be open to use by all persons for the purpose
of loading and unloading their ships, vessels, or boats. No ship, vessel or
boat shall remain tied or moored to any of the public docks while loading or
unloading so as to interfere with other ships, vessels or boats desiring to
load or unload at any of the docks.
   (B)   After a vessel or boat has completed the loading or unloading of its
cargo, it shall then immediately be removed from the public dock upon the
master of any other vessel expressing a desire to use the same space for
loading or unloading of his vessel. Ships, vessels, or boats may be moored at
any of the public docks while not loading or unloading only if there are no
other ships, vessels or boats desiring to use such space at the public dock for
the purpose of loading or unloading.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
§ 90.23 PRIVATE BUSINESS ON PUBLIC DOCKS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to use the public docks as
the situs for any private business or private enterprise.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
§ 90.24 DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or cause or permit to be
deposited, in any of the waters next to the public docks any refuse, offal,
carnal, fish, or vegetable matter that may injuriously affect the sanitary,
clean, safe condition of the waters in the harbor or diminish the depth
thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.25 DISPOSAL OF WRECKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to voluntarily or carelessly sink or permit or cause to
be sunk any ships, vessels, boats, scows or other craft in the waters of the
harbor surrounding the public docks or to float loose timber and logs therein.
Whenever a vessel or other craft is wrecked and sunk in any of the waters of
the harbor, accidentally or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the owner of
such sunken craft to immediately mark it with a buoy and a lighted lantern at
night and to maintain such marks until the sunken craft is removed or
abandoned, and the neglect or failure of the owner to so mark the wreck shall
be unlawful, and it shall be the duty of the owner of such sunken craft to
commence the immediate removal of same and prosecute such removal diligently.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: HARBORS
Section
Oyster Harbor
   
91.01   Storage of fishing, crabbing and shellfish catching and collection
equipment prohibited
Willis Wharf Harbor
   
91.20   Purpose and application
   
91.21   Application
   
91.22   Harbor Committee
   
91.23   Rules and regulations for use
   
91.24   General authority
   
91.25   Nondiscrimination
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OYSTER HARBOR
§ 91.01 STORAGE OF FISHING, CRABBING AND SHELLFISH CATCHING AND COLLECTION
EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority contained in VA Code § 15.2-1200, as amended,
there are established the following regulations governing the use of public
property at Oyster Harbor.
   (B)   No person, corporation or firm shall leave unattended or store any
fishing, crabbing and shellfish and the like catching and collection equipment
on Oyster Harbor’s wharf bulkhead.
   (C)   Fishing, crabbing and shellfish and the like catching and collection
equipment to be loaded onto and unloaded from vessels moored to the county’s
Oyster Harbor’s wharf bulkhead may not be left unattended. Fishing, crabbing
and shellfish and the like catching and collection equipment left unattended
for more than 96 hours may be seized, impounded and moved. The county will
charge a removal and storage fee of $100 per lot of equipment for each week the
equipment is stored. Equipment unclaimed for more than six weeks may be
disposed of.
   (D)   Violations of this section shall be a Class I misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine.
(Ord. passed 4-14-2003)
Penalty, see § 91.99
WILLIS WHARF HARBOR
§ 91.20 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the operation and
maintenance of Willis Wharf Boat Harbor and Ramp Facilities, owned by the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors, including certain charges for the use
thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 91.21 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter governs the use of the named facility, known as the Willis
Wharf Boat Harbor and Ramp Facility. Except for those provisions which are
inconsistent herewith, the provisions of §§
90.01 through 90.07 shall continue to apply to the Willis Wharf Boat Harbor and
Ramp Facility.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 91.22 HARBOR COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Authority. There is established for the purpose of operation and
maintenance of the Willis Wharf Harbor and enforcement hereof a committee to be
known as the Willis Wharf Harbor Committee, which Committee shall be appointed
by the Board and charged with diligently conducting and enforcing the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Membership. The Committee shall consist of nine members, all appointed
by the Board, with three being appointed for four year terms, three for three
year terms, and three for two year terms; subsequent appointments will be for
terms of four years each. At no time shall fewer than seven members be
residents of Franktown District. The Committee shall elect from its membership
a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary.
   (C)   Meetings. The Committee shall meet at least four times a year at a
time and place of its choosing and shall maintain accurate records of the
meeting’s proceedings and the financial resources of the Harbor.
   (D)   Membership quorum and majority rule. Five members shall constitute a
quorum for all meetings. All matters shall be decided by majority vote of those
present and voting.
   (E)   Committee vacancies. In the event a vacancy occurs in the term of any
Committee member, the Board shall have the right to appoint persons to fill
such vacancy for the remainder of such unexpired term.
   (F)   Removal of members. The Board reserves the right to remove any
Committee member whom it finds not fulfilling the duties charged to him or her
under this subchapter.
   (G)   Miscellaneous. Matters which cannot be decided by the Committee may be
referred to the Board for a final decision. The referral must be made in
writing giving details of the issues involved.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 91.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE.
   (A)   Requisites of permits and rules and regulations governing same.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy or tie a boat to
any part of the properties owned by Northampton County and known as the Willis
Wharf Harbor and Boat Ramp Facility without first having obtained a lease,
permit or license for such use or occupation from the Board, or its duly
designated agent.
      (2)   All leases, permits, or licenses for the use or occupation of boat
slips or wharfage shall be in writing on forms authorized by the Board and
submitted to the Committee for review and transmittal to the County
Administrator for approval.
      (3)   All fees for leases, licenses, or permits shall become due on July
1 each year commencing with July 1, 1985 initially, except all fees for leases,
licenses, and permits will be due on October 1, 1984,
which is the scheduled opening of the facility. All fees are non-returnable,
except as may be provided for in the lease agreement.
      (4)   No lessee may sublet a boat slip to another person; provided,
however, that with permission from the Committee, the lessee may permit another
person to moor a boat on a temporary basis.
      (5)   All fees charged for mooring, tying up, wharfage and use of harbor
facilities shall be established by the Board upon recommendation by the
Committee.
      (6)   All fees and charges collected by the Board shall be spent for
improvements, repairs and upkeep of the Willis Wharf Harbor and its facilities
upon recommendations made by the Committee. The Committee shall file annually
with the Board, beginning June 1, 1985, a report on the status of the harbor
facility.
   (B)   Permits required for erection of structures.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to erect any type of structure in the waters
of the harbor, access channel, or within the bulkhead line thereof or on the
land area of the facility without first securing a permit by the Committee. Any
authorized structure or appurtenance shall be installed at the expense of the
person or persons causing the construction thereof. The structure or
appurtenances shall become the property of Northampton County, Virginia. The
subject structure appurtenances shall be constructed or installed in keeping
with specifications to be approved in advance by the Committee.
   (C)   General dumping and disposal of wrecks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, or to cause or permit to be
deposited, in any of the waters of the harbor, in the boat ramp, or in the boat
trailer parking area, or along the shores thereof, or in any of the streams or
ditches emptying therein, or on any of the land adjacent or contiguous to the
harbor, any refuse, offal, waste matter, or other substance or material,
whether earth, oil, liquid, animal, fish or vegetable matter, or other matter
that may injuriously affect the sanitary, clean and safe condition of the land
area or water in the harbor, or diminish the depth thereof.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to voluntarily or carelessly sink, or permit
or cause to be sunk, any barges, scows or other craft in the waters of the
harbor or to float loose timber and logs therein. Whenever a vessel or other
craft is wrecked and sunk in any of the waters of the harbor, accidentally or
otherwise, it shall be the duty of the owner of such sunken craft to
immediately mark it with a buoy and a lighted lantern at night and to maintain
such marks until the sunken craft is removed, and the neglect or failure of the
owner to so mark the wreck shall be unlawful; it shall be unlawful for the
owners of such sunken craft not to commence the immediate removal of same and
prosecute such removal diligently.
   (D)   Boat ramp and land area usage.
      (1)   The use of the boat ramp and adjacent parking area is for the
pleasure of all users of the Willis Wharf Harbor Facility; however, no
unloading, loading, or storage of seafood products or by-products, nets, poles,
dredges, or culling of products is permitted. At the discretion of the
Committee, temporary variances may be granted when an emergency exists or there
is other just cause therefor.
      (2)   Overnight habitation of parked vans, automobiles, trucks, mobile
homes, carrier trailers, or other recreational vehicles or apparatus, including
tents, is prohibited.
   (E)   Designated loading/unloading wharfage areas.
      (1)   At the discretion of the Committee, a specified area for the
loading/unloading of both commercial and pleasure boats is to be designated and
so marked for identification.
      (2)   Except in an emergency, it shall be unlawful to use the loading/
unloading wharfage area for the mooring of boats except in the area provided
therefor. In the case of an urgency, the mooring shall be as approved by the
Committee or its designated agent.
   (F)   Use of harbor for anchoring or tying-up.
      (1)   No boat shall be moored or anchored inside the harbor or along the
access channel without the permission of the Committee or its designated agent.
      (2)   No boat shall operate or be moored or anchored in such a manner as
to obstruct the passage, approach, berthing, or anchoring of other boats.
      (3)   Fees may be charged for anchoring or tying-up in the harbor by the
Committee when authorized by the Board or its designated agent.
   (G)   Speed limits. All boats entering, leaving, or moving about in the
harbor shall be operated in such a manner as not to create a swell sufficient
to cause damage to the other boats or crafts anchored, tied up, or plying in
the harbor or to the fastenings thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.24 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Committee and its duly designated agents shall have the authority
to direct and control the movement and stoppage of all watercraft, vehicles and
trailers using the Willis Wharf Harbor Facilities, including the parking area,
ramps, dock, boat slips, and water within the confines of the harbor and along
the south side of the access channel. The Committee shall have the further
authority to restrict or prohibit any activities within the facility that in
any way adversely affect the intended uses of the facility.
   (B)   In its enforcement of division (A) above, the Committee may request
special police officer to be assigned thereto.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein is intended to preclude the Northampton
County Sheriff or other police officers from enforcing federal, state and local
statutes, ordinances and regulations, including the regulations hereof.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 91.25 NONDISCRIMINATION.
   There shall be no discrimination in the use of or access to the benefits of
the harbor facilities regardless of race, age, creed, handicap, color, national
origin, religion, sex, political affiliation or beliefs.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of §§
91.20 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, and
each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. passed
9-10-1984)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Offenses relating to inoperable motor vehicles on private property
   
92.03   Offenses related to abandoned motor vehicles
   
92.04   Procedures for impounding motor vehicles
   
92.05   Reclaiming of impounded vehicles; towing and storage charges
   
92.06   Notice of impounded motor vehicles
   
92.07   Disposition of unreclaimed vehicles; proceeds of sale
   
92.08   Disposition of inoperable abandoned vehicles
   
92.09   Record of impounded vehicles
Statutory references:
   Authority to restrict keeping of inoperable motor vehicles, etc., on
residential or commercial property, removal of such vehicles, VA Code § 15.2-
904
   Definitions, VA Code § 46.2-1200
   Notice to owner of vehicle taken into custody, VA Code § 46.2-1202
   Prohibition against leaving a motor vehicle on the private property of any
other person without the consent of that other person, VA Code § 46.2-1215
   Removal and disposition of unattended or immobile vehicles, ordinances in
counties, cities and towns, VA Code § 46.2-1213
   Sale of vehicle at public auction, disposition of proceeds, VA Code § 46.2-
1203
   Sale of personal property found in unattended or abandoned vehicle VA Code,
§ 46.2-1214
   Vehicles left unattended on or adjacent to any roadway and constituting a
traffic hazard, VA Code § 46.2-1209
   Vehicles obstructing movement from driveways, etc., VA Code § 46.2-1211
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer or part of
a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that:
      (1)   Is left unattended on public property, other than a primary
highway, for more than 48 hours;
      (2)   Has remained for more than 48 hours on private property without the
consent of the property's owner, regardless of whether it was brought onto the
private property with the consent of the owner or person in control of the
private property;
      (3)   Is left unattended on the shoulder of a primary highway.
   AUTHORIZED COUNTY OFFICIAL. The County Administrator of Northampton County,
acting in accordance with the Board of Supervisors, on her designees, who may
be county personnel or firms or corporations who may be independent contractors
authorized by him to remove, preserve store and dispose of abandoned,
inoperable or unattended motor vehicles in accordance with this chapter and the
applicable sections of the VA Code, as amended.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles.
   DEMOLISHER. Any person or entity whose business is to convert motor vehicles
into processed scrap or scrap metal or otherwise to wreck or dismantle such
vehicles.
   DEPARTMENT. The Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles.
   INOPERABLE ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle which is
inoperable and which the fair market value, as determined by the locality's
official responsible for assessing motor vehicles under VA Code § 58.1-3503, is
less than the cost of its restoration to an operable condition.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
      (1)   That is not in operating condition;
      (2)   For a period of 60 days or longer has been partially or totally
disassembled by the removal of tires and wheels, the engine, or other essential
parts required for operation of the vehicle; or
      (3)   On which there are displayed neither valid license plates nor a
valid inspection decal.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSOR. Any person who is engaged in the business of
processing motor vehicles into scrap for remelting purposes who, from a fixed
location, utilizes machinery and equipment for processing and manufacturing
ferrous and nonferrous metallic scrap into prepared grades, and whose principal
product is metallic scrap.
   SHIELDED or SCREENED. Hidden from sight, from any ground level location, by
vegetation or fences.
   UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or part
of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that is:
      (1)   Left unattended on a public road or other public property and
constitutes a traffic hazard;
      (2)   Illegally parked;
      (3)   Left unattended for more than ten days on public property; or on
private property without the permission of the property owner, lessee or
occupant; or
      (4)   Immobilized on a public roadway by weather conditions or other
emergency situations.
   VEHICLE REMOVAL CERTIFICATE. A transferable document issued by the Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles for any abandoned motor vehicle that authorizes
the removal and destruction of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.02 OFFENSES RELATING TO INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an inoperable motor
vehicle on any property zoned for residential or commercial or agricultural
purposes, except within a fully enclosed building or structure or otherwise
shielded or screened from view.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to a salvage dealer, demolisher,
rebuilder, salvage pool or vehicle removal operator as defined in VA Code §
46.2-1600.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to farm use motor vehicles used
exclusively for farm use when owned by a person who is engaged either as an
owner, renter, or operator of a farm of a size reasonably requiring the use of
such vehicle used in the transportation of agricultural commodities, poultry,
dairy products or livestock of the farm he is working to market, or when used
to transport materials, tools, equipment or supplies that are to be used or
consumed on the farm he is working shall be exempt from this chapter.
   (D)   Any person violating this section shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $100 for a first violation and $250 for a second violation upon a
finding by the Northampton General District Court. Each day during which the
violation is found to have existed shall constitute a separate offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed for each motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer, or part of a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer that is in
violation of this section. In addition to such civil penalties, such violations
shall be also be a Class 3 misdemeanor in the event three civil penalties have
previously been imposed on the same defendant for the same or similar
violation, not arising from the same set of operative facts, within a 24-month
period.
   (E)   If the violation remains uncorrected at the time of the admission of
liability or finding of liability, the court may order the violator to abate or
remedy the violation. Except as otherwise provided by the court for good cause
shown, any such violator shall abate or remedy the violation within a period of
time as determined by the court, but not later than six months of the date of
admission of liability or finding of liability. Each day during which the
violation continues after the court-ordered abatement period has ended shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to the penalty prescribed in division (D) above, the
authorized county official may cause the owner or occupant of any parcel of
land found to contain an inoperable motor vehicle which is not enclosed in a
structure or shielded or screened from view, to be given notice that the county
will cause the vehicle to be removed unless the vehicle is enclosed in a
structure or shielded or screened from view or removed from the property within
48 hours or within some longer time period stated in the notice. If the owner
or occupant fails to comply with the notice and abate the nuisance within the
specified time, the county may cause such vehicle to be removed and impounded
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.03 OFFENSES RELATING TO ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall cause any motor vehicle to become an abandoned motor
vehicle. In any prosecution for a violation of this section, proof that the
defendant was, at the time that the vehicle was found abandoned, the owner of
the vehicle shall constitute in evidence a rebuttable presumption that the
owner was the person who committed the violation. Such presumption, however,
shall not arise if the owner of the vehicle provided notice to the Department,
as provided in VA Code § 46.2-604, that he had sold or otherwise transferred
the ownership of the vehicle.
   (B)   A summons for a violation of this section shall be executed by mailing
a copy of the summons by first-class mail to the address of the owner of the
vehicle as shown on the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles and
delivered to the Sheriff of the county for service on the accused personally.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty of no more than $500. If any person fails to pay any such
penalty, his privilege to drive a motor vehicle on the highways of the
Commonwealth shall be suspended as provided in VA Code § 46.2-395.
   (D)   All penalties collected under this section shall be paid into the
state treasury to be credited to the Literary Fund as provided in VA Code §
46.2-114.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.04 PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The authorized county official may take abandoned, inoperable and unattended
motor vehicles into custody of the county and dispose of them in accordance
with the provisions hereof. For purposes of implementation hereof, the county
may utilize county personnel, equipment and facilities or may hire persons,
equipment and facilities or firms or corporations who may be independent
contractors for removing, preserving and storing abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.05 RECLAIMING OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES; TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner of any vehicle impounded under this chapter or any person
duly authorized by the owner and any person possessing a security interest in
the vehicle shall be permitted to repossess the vehicle up to the time of its
sale by making payment all the towing and storage charges.
   (B)   Payment of the charges and costs identified in division (A) above
shall not operate to relieve the owner of the impounded vehicle or the owner's
agent from liability for any fine or civil penalty.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   As soon as possible after taking an abandoned motor vehicle into
custody, the authorized county official or her designee shall initiate a search
for the owner or any secured parties with respect to the abandoned motor
vehicle in compliance with the procedures of Va. Code § 46.2-1200 et seq. and
shall work in accordance with those procedures to dispose of the vehicle.
   (B)   The following notice must be provided for all other impounded motor
vehicles:
      (1)   The authorized county official directing the removal of any vehicle
under this chapter, shall, within 15 days of the impoundment of the motor
vehicle, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, provide
notice to the owner of record of the impounded vehicle, as shown in records
maintained by the Department; provided, that the vehicle has not already been
released from the impoundment facility. The notice shall state the following:
         (a)   The year, make, model and registration number of the motor
vehicle;
         (b)   The address where the vehicle is being held; and
         (c)   That the owner and any person having a security interest in the
vehicle may reclaim the vehicle within 15 days from the date of the notice,
after payment of all towing and storage charges resulting from the removal and
storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   If the owner fails or refuses to pay the cost or if his identity or
whereabouts is unknown and unascertainable after a diligent search has been
made, and after notice to him at his last known address and to the holder of
any lien of record with the Department against the motor vehicle, the vehicle
shall be considered an abandoned motor vehicle and the provisions of division
(A) above apply.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.07 DISPOSITION OF UNRECLAIMED VEHICLES; PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter is not reclaimed:
      (1)   The authorized county official shall obtain from the Department a
Vehicle Removal Certificate in a manner prescribed by the Commissioner;
      (2)   The vehicle may then be sold or transferred to a licensee or a
scrap metal processor, as defined in VA Code § 46.2-1600, as amended; or
      (3)   If the county desires to sell the vehicle at public auction, the
authorized county official shall post notice for at least 21 days of its intent
to auction the motor vehicle with the Department.
         (a)   Postings of intent shall be in an electronic manner prescribed
by the Commissioner who shall also ensure that written notice of intent is
provided in public locations throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia.
         (b)   If the Department confirms a lien, the authorized county
official shall notify the lienholder of record, by certified mail, at the
address on the certificate of title of the time and place of the proposed sale
10 days prior thereto.
   (B)   The purchaser of an impounded vehicle at public auction shall take
title to the vehicle free of all liens and claims of ownership of others, shall
receive a sales receipt, an abandoned vehicle receipt and a completed Vehicle
Removal Certificate, and shall be entitled to apply to and receive from the
Department a certificate of title and a registration card for the vehicle.
   (C)   The proceeds from the sale of an impounded motor vehicle shall be used
to pay from the towing charge, storage charge and any costs incurred by the
county in learning the identity of the vehicle owner and the holders of a
security interest in the vehicle and in conducting the sale. The balance of the
proceeds shall be held by the Director of Finance for the owner and paid to the
owner upon satisfactory proof of ownership; provided, that the owner makes
application for such proceeds within 90 days from the date of sale. If the
owner fails to make timely application, the balance of the proceeds shall
become the property of the county, and shall be deposited in the county general
fund.
   (D)   Any personal property found in an impounded motor vehicle may be sold
along with the sale of the vehicle.
   (E)   In addition to the sale as outlined in this section, the cost of
removal and disposal for
inoperable motor vehicles shall be chargeable to the owner of the motor vehicle
or the owner of the premises from which it was removed and may be collected by
the county as taxes and levies are collected, and every cost authorized by this
section assessed against the owner of the premises shall constitute a lien
against the property from which the vehicle was removed, the lien to continue
until actual payment of costs has been made to the county.
   (F)   After the sale at auction of any motor vehicle, the authorized county
official shall notify the state Department of the disposition of the motor
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.08 DISPOSITION OF INOPERABLE ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary,
any inoperable abandoned motor vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to
this chapter may be disposed of to a demolisher, for the sole purpose of having
the vehicle wrecked, dismantled or demolished, without the title and the
notification procedures otherwise required by this chapter. The demolisher,
upon taking custody of such motor vehicle, shall notify the Department of this
fact on forms provided by the Department.
   (B)   When a motor vehicle is disposed of as provided for in division (A)
above, the authorized county official shall certify this fact to and claim
reimbursement from the Department pursuant to VA Code § 46.2-1207.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 92.09 RECORD OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The authorized county official shall keep a record of all vehicles impounded
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 93: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Owners of vacant developed or undeveloped property to cut grass, weeds
and other foreign growth
   
94.02   Control of Johnsongrass
   
94.03   Dangerous structures
   
94.04   Derelict buildings
§ 94.01 OWNERS OF VACANT DEVELOPED OR UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY TO CUT GRASS, WEEDS
AND OTHER FOREIGN GROWTH.
   (A)   Except as provided below, the owners of occupied or vacant developed
or undeveloped property within Northampton County, Virginia, shall cut the
grass, weeds and other foreign growth on such property or any part thereof at
such time or times as the governing body of Northampton County shall prescribe.
   (B)   Whenever the governing body of Northampton County deems it necessary
after reasonable notice to the owners of occupied or vacant developed or
undeveloped properties, that the governing body may have such grass, weeds, or
other foreign growth cut, including running bamboo, by its agents or employees;
in which event, the cost and expenses thereof shall be chargeable to and paid
by the owner of such property and may be collected by Northampton County as
taxes and levies are collected.
   (C)   Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of such
property shall have been assessed and which remains unpaid shall constitute a
lien against such property.
   (D)   This section shall be in effect only in those portions of Northampton
County which are within the boundaries of platted subdivisions or are zoned for
residential, business, commercial or industrial use. No such ordinance shall be
applicable to land zoned for agricultural use unless such lot is one acre or
less in area and used for a residential purpose.
   (E)   This section shall not be construed to require the cutting of marsh
grass, gardens or other actively cultivated areas, nor shall it be construed to
require cutting or mowing of vegetation which is more than 100 feet from any
structure (whether vacant or occupied), nor shall it be construed to require
the mowing or cutting of grass, weeds or other foreign growth which is less
than 12 inches in height.
   (F)   This section shall not be in effect within the corporate limits of any
town within Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1998; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-2023)
§ 94.02 CONTROL OF JOHNSONGRASS.
   (A)   The existence of growth of a species of grass, Sorghum Halepense,
commonly known as ‘Johnsongrass,’ as well as other sorghum spp. with perennial
rhizomes (includes perennial sweet sudangrass, sorghum almumand hybrids derived
therefrom) are declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly allow Johnsongrass to set seed on
any land and it shall be the duty of each landowner to mow, fallow, treat with
herbicides, or use such other practices as may be approved by the Board of
Supervisors as effective in preventing seed set on all Johnsongrass or other
Sorghum spp. on his property; provided, however, a landowner or lessee may
enter into a written compliance agreement with the Board of Supervisors or its
designee, specifying terms and conditions of a control program and as long as
all the terms and conditions are being complied with, there is no violation of
this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to import Johnsongrass into this county or to
transport Johnsongrass within this county in any form capable of growth or to
knowingly contaminate any uninfested land with Johnsongrass through the
movement of footstocks, plant parts, seed, soil, mulch, nursery stock lawn
machinery, or other media.
   (D)   The Board may enter into an agreement with the Virginia Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services for the purpose of the control of
Johnsongrass within the county and may accept funds from the Department as
agreed upon; further, this section is in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-902, as
amended.
   (E)   There is established a Johnsongrass Control Committee composed of six
members, each to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Committee shall
appoint all individuals responsible for a Johnsongrass control program, approve
all expenditures of funds, and administer the Johnsongrass control program.
   (F)   The Johnsongrass Control Committee, or its representatives, shall
conduct surveys to determine the location and amount of infestations of
Johnsongrass within the county; shall provide the necessary technical and other
assistance to landowners in a cooperative control or eradication program; and
may effect a program of spraying or other control practices on road rights-of-
way, drainage ditch banks, parks, playgrounds, utility rights-of-way and other
public or private lands.
   (G)   The Board may accept, use, or expend such aid, gift, grant, or loan as
may from time to time be made available from any source, public or private, for
the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Services rendered for actual control practices may be billed to the
landowner or lessee and collected. All reimbursements shall be promptly
deposited in a special Johnsongrass control fund and shall not revert to the
General Fund of the county regardless of date accrued or collected. Collected
or renewed funds for county expenditures shall be considered unexpended for
cost-share purposes.
§ 94.03 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The owners of property within the unincorporated areas of the county
shall, at such time or times as the building inspector for the county or other
agent of the governing body of the county may prescribe, remove, repair or
secure any building, wall or any other structure which might endanger the
public health or safety of other residents of the county.
   (B)   The governing body of the county, through its agents or employees, may
remove, repair or secure any building, wall or any other structure which might
endanger the public health or safety of other residents of such locality, if
the owner and lien holder of such property, after reasonable notice and a
reasonable time to do so, has failed to remove, repair or secure the building,
wall or other structure. For purposes of this section, repair may include
maintenance work to the exterior of a building to prevent deterioration of the
building or adjacent buildings. For purposes of this section, reasonable notice
includes a written notice (i) mailed by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the last known address of the property owner and
(ii) published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having
general circulation in the locality. No action shall be taken by the locality
to remove, repair or secure any building, wall or other structure for at least
30 days following the later of the return of the receipt or newspaper
publication.
   (C)   In the event the governing body of the county, through its agents or
employees, removes, repairs or secures any building, wall or any other
structure after complying with the notice provisions of this section, the cost
or expenses thereof shall be chargeable to and paid by the owners of such
property and may be collected by the county as taxes are collected.
   (D)   Every charge authorized by this section with which the owner of any
such property has been assessed and which remains unpaid shall constitute a
lien against such property ranking on a parity with liens for unpaid local
taxes and enforceable in the same manner as provided in VA Code Title 58.1,
Chapter 39, Articles 3 and 4, §§ 58.1-3940 et seq. and §§ 58.1-3965 et seq. The
Board of Supervisors may waive such liens in order to facilitate the sale of
the property. Such liens may be waived only as to a purchaser who is unrelated
by blood or marriage to the owner and who has no business association with the
owner. All such liens shall remain a personal obligation of the owner of the
property at the time the liens were imposed.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalties which may be assessable against the
owner of property subject to the provisions of this section, such owner or any
other individual shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed a total of
$1,000, for any violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2005)
§ 94.04 DERELICT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DERELICT BUILDING. A residential or nonresidential building or structure,
whether or not construction has been completed, that might endanger the
public's health, safety or welfare and which, for a continuous period in excess
of six months, has been vacant, boarded up in accordance with the Building Code
and not lawfully connected to electric service  from a utility service provider
or not lawfully connected to any required water or sewer service from a utility
service provider.
   (B)   Authority to order demolition or renovation of derelict buildings.
Because the county has enacted a tax abatement ordinance that enables it to
abate the property tax attributable to derelict buildings, it is authorized by
VA Code § 15.2-907.1 to enact this section for the demolition or renovation of
derelict buildings.
   (C)   Procedure for ordering demolition or renovation of derelict buildings.
      (1)    Upon declaring that a particular building or structure is a
derelict building, as defined in this article, the county shall notify the
owner of such derelict building of its declaration. Alternatively, the owner of
a building may apply to the county and request that such building be declared a
derelict building for the purposes of this section.
      (2)    Upon the declaration that a building is a derelict building within
the meaning of this section, the county shall notify the owner of such
building, in writing, that he is required to submit to the county within 90
days of the date of such declaration a plan to demolish or renovate the
building to address the items that endanger the public's health, safety or
welfare as listed in said notification. Such notification shall be delivered to
the address listed on the real estate tax assessment record of the county and
may be sent by first-class mail so long as the county obtains a certificate of
mailing from the U.S. Postal Service. Such a mailing shall constitute delivery
pursuant to this section.
      (3)    Within 90 days of delivery of the declaration referred to in
division (C)(2) above the owners of the property referred to therein shall
submit a plan to demolish or renovate any building that has been declared a
derelict building. The plan may be on a form developed by the county and shall
include a proposed time within which the plan will be commenced and completed.
The plan may include one or more adjacent properties of the owner, whether or
not all of such properties may have been declared derelict buildings.
      (4)    If the county delivers written notice and the owner of the
derelict building has not submitted a plan to the county within 90 days, as
provided in division (C)(3) above, the county may exercise such remedies as
provided in this section or as otherwise provided by law.
      (5)   The plan developed pursuant to this article shall be subject to
approval by the county. Upon receipt of the plan and at the request of the
owner, the county shall meet with the owner and provide information to the
owner on land use and permitting requirements for demolition or renovation.
      (6)    If the property owner's plan is to demolish the derelict building,
the building permit application of such owner shall be expedited. If the owner
has completed the demolition within 90 days of the date of the building permit
issuance, the county shall refund any building and demolition permit fees. This
section shall not supersede any ordinance adopted pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-
2306, relative to historic districts.
      (7)   If the property owner's plan is to renovate the derelict building,
and no rezoning is required for the owner's intended use of the property, the
site plan or subdivision application and the building permit, as applicable,
shall be expedited. The site plan or subdivision fees may be refunded, all or
in part, but in no event shall the site plan or subdivision fees exceed the
lesser of 50% of the standard fees established by the ordinance for site plan
or subdivision applications for the proposed use of the property, or $5,000 per
property. The building permit fees may be refunded, all or in part, but in no
event shall the building permit fees exceed the lesser of 50% of the standard
fees established by the ordinance for building permit applications for the
proposed use of the property, or $5,000 per property.
      (8)   Prior to commencement of a plan to demolish or renovate the
derelict building, at the request of the property owner, the Commissioner of
Revenue shall make an assessment of the property in its current derelict
condition. On the building permit application, the owner shall declare the
costs of demolition or the costs of materials and labor to complete the
renovation. At the request of the property owner, after demolition or
renovation of the derelict building, the Commissioner of Revenue shall reflect
the fair market value of the demolition costs or the fair market value of the
renovation improvements and reflect such value in the real estate tax
assessment records. The real estate tax on an amount equal to the costs of
demolition or an amount equal to the increase in the fair market value of the
renovations shall be abated for a period of 15 years and is transferable with
the property. The abatement of taxes for demolition shall not apply if the
structure demolished is a registered Virginia landmark or is determined by the
Department of Historic Resources to contribute to the significance of a
registered historic district.
   (D)   Other remedies preserved. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, the county may proceed to make repairs and secure the building under §
94.03 regarding dangerous structures, VA Code § 15.2-906 or §
150.55 dealing with spot blight, VA Code § 36-49.1:1, or the county may proceed
to abate or remove a nuisance under VA Code § 15.2-900. In addition, the county
may exercise such remedies as may exist under the Uniform Statewide Building
Code and may exercise such other remedies available under general and special
law.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
Cross reference:
   Real estate tax abatement program, see §
33.030
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Hybrid canine
   
95.02   (Reserved)
   
95.03   Use of rifles or dogs to hunt deer
   
95.04   Running at large of dogs
   
95.05   Tethering of animals
Rabies Control
   
95.20   Enforcement of animal laws
   
95.21   (Reserved)
   
95.22   Evidence required before issuance of licenses
   
95.23   Unlicensed dogs and cats prohibited
   
95.24   (Reserved)
   
95.25   (Reserved)
   
95.26   Reporting of animal bites
   
95.27   Confinement or destruction of animals exposed to known or suspected
rabid animals
   
95.28   Confinement of biting animals
   
95.29   Impoundment of unvaccinated or unlicensed dogs and cats
   
95.30   (Reserved)
   
95.31   Concealing or withholding an animal to prevent its destruction or
confinement
   
95.32   (Reserved)
   
95.33   (Reserved)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 HYBRID CANINE.
   (A)   Northampton County hereby prohibits the keeping of hybrid canines as
defined herein.
   (B)   HYBRID CANINE means any animal that is or can be demonstrated to be a
hybrid of the domestic dog and any other species of the Canidae family; that at
any time has been permitted, registered, licensed, or advertised as such; or
that at any time has been described, represented, or reported as such by its
owner to a licensed veterinarian, law-enforcement officer, animal control
officer, humane investigator, official of the Department of Health, or State
Veterinarian's representative.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor for the first
violation and a Class 1 misdemeanor for any subsequent violation.
   (D)   At the discretion of the County Animal Control Officer, the violator
may be required to surrender the hybrid canine for euthanasia in accordance
with VA Code § 3.2-6562, as amended.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2015)
§ 95.02 (RESERVED)
§ 95.03 USE OF RIFLES OR DOGS TO HUNT DEER.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to authority granted by VA Code §§
29.1-528 and 15.2-1200, as amended.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt deer in the County of
Northampton with a rifle; provided, however, that persons to whom a permit has
been issued pursuant to VA Code § 29.1-529 may exercise their right under the
permit with a rifle from an elevation of at least three feet or higher.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the prohibition of division (B), it shall be lawful to
hunt deer with muzzle-loading rifles (single flintlock or percussion weapons)
during any special season for such hunting and during the general firearms deer
season if such muzzle-loading rifle be of a caliber not less than .45 rim fire,
that it fire a single lead projectile of the same caliber (no sabots), that it
be loaded from the muzzle end and that the projectile be propelled by a minimum
of 50 grains of black powder or black powder equivalent (Pyrodex). This
exception to the provisions of division (B) of this section shall permit the
use of telescopic sights but not muzzle-loading pistols.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession any
telescopic sight, muzzle-loading pistol or any firearm other than a muzzle-
loading rifle while hunting with a muzzle-loaded rifle in a special muzzle-
loading season.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt deer with dogs in the
County of Northampton.
   (F)   The muzzle-loading season shall be that season designated as such by
the Board of Game and Inland Fisheries and the general firearms deer season in
Northampton County.
   (G)    Hunting includes taking, hunting, pursuing, chasing or shooting and
lesser acts, such as attempting to take, hunt, pursue, chase or shoot, and any
act of assistance to any person who is hunting or attempting to do so whether
the same results in taking or not.
   (H)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a Class 3 misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-11-1995;
Am. Ord. 5-13-2002)
§ 95.04 RUNNING AT LARGE OF DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OWNER. Any person who:
         (a)   Has a right of property in an animal;
         (b)   Keeps or harbors an animal;
         (c)   Has an animal in his care; or
         (d)   Acts as a custodian of an animal.
      RUNNING AT LARGE and RUN AT LARGE. A dog roaming, running or self hunting
off the properly of its owner or custodian and not under its owner’s immediate
control.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow or permit any
such animal to run at large within the unincorporated portions of Northampton
County or within the boundaries of any incorporated town which passes a similar
ordinance to regulate and control the running at large of dogs.
   (C)   (1)   Any dog found at large may be confiscated by the Animal Warden
or other authorities and, if not claimed within 12 days, it shall be disposed
of pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6546.
      (2)   In the event that any dog confined pursuant to this section is
claimed by its rightful owner, such owner shall be charged with the actual
expense incurred in keeping the dog impounded. Before the dog is released, the
owner shall execute an affidavit of ownership, present the proper dog license,
and pay all the expenses incurred in keeping the dog confined.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a Class 4 misdemeanor.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Warden or such other officers as
may be designated by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County to enforce
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1996; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2017)
§ 95.05 TETHERING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal owner in the county shall allow each animal to (i) easily
stand, sit, lie, turn about and make all other normal body movements in a
comfortable, normal position for the animal and (ii) interact safely with other
animals in the enclosure. When an animal is tethered, "adequate space" means a
tether that permits the above actions and is appropriate to the age, size, and
health of the animal; is attached to the animal by a properly applied collar,
halter, or harness configured so as to protect the animal from injury and
prevent the animal or tether from becoming entangled with other objects or
animals, or from gaining access to public thoroughfares, or from extending over
an object or edge that could result in the strangulation or injury of the
animal; and is at least ten feet in length or three times the length of the
animal whichever is longer, as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of
its tail, except when the animal is being walked on a leash or is attached by a
tether to a lead line. When freedom of movement would endanger the animal,
temporarily and appropriately restricting movement of the animal according to
professionally accepted standards for the species is considered provision of
adequate space. Provided, however, that no animal shall be tethered for more
than 12 hours in a 24-hour period.
   (B)   Animals involved in agricultural activities shall not be subject to
this section.
   (C)   It shall be an unlawful act if any person violates any provision of
this section and it shall constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2004)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 95.20 ENFORCEMENT OF ANIMAL LAWS.
   In accordance with VA Code § 3.2-6555, an Animal Control Officer shall be
appointed and he shall have the power to enforce all state laws for the
protection of domestic animals, all comprehensive animal laws, and the
provisions of this subchapter. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prevent the issuance of a warrant for any violation of this subchapter by any
law enforcement officer authorized to issue arrest warrants generally, or by
the District Health Director.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2017)
§ 95.21 (RESERVED)
§ 95.22 EVIDENCE REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   No dog or cat license shall be issued by the Treasurer or his or her agent
for any dog or cat unless there is presented to the Treasurer or his or her
agent at the time application for such license is made a current and valid
certificate of rabies vaccination.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997)
§ 95.23 UNLICENSED DOGS AND CATS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own a dog or cat, four months
or older, in Northampton County unless such dog or cat is licensed as required
by the provisions of this subchapter. A dog or cat license shall consist of a
license receipt and a metal tag. The license receipt shall include: the amount
paid; the name and address of the owner or custodian; the date of payment; the
year for which issued; the serial number of the tag; whether dog or cat; and
its age, sex and breed. The metal tag shall be stamped or otherwise permanently
marked to show "Northampton County," the sex of the dog or cat, the calendar
year for which issued, and bear a serial number. Tags shall be color coded by
calendar year.
   (B)   Dog and cat licenses shall run by the calendar year, namely from
January 1 to December 31, inclusive, and the license tax shall be payable at
the office of the Treasurer of Northampton County and shall be as follows:
      (1)   Male:   for a male dog or cat, $10;
      (2)   Unsexed male:   for an unsexed (successfully neutered) male dog or
cat, $5;
      (3)   Female:   for a female dog or cat, $10;
      (4)   Unsexed female:   for an unsexed (successfully spayed) female dog
or cat, $5;
      (5)   Kennel for 20 dogs or cats:   $35;
      (6)   Kennel for 50 dogs or cats:   $50;
      (7)   Duplicate tag:   $1.
   (C)   No license tax shall be levied on any dog that is trained and serves
as a guide dog for a blind person, that is trained and serves as a hearing dog
for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or that is trained and serves as a
service dog for a mobility-impaired or otherwise disabled person. As used in
this section, HEARING DOG , MOBILITY-IMPAIRED PERSON , OTHERWISE DISABLED
PERSON , and SERVICE DOG have the same meaning as assigned in VA Code § 51.5-
40.1, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2002; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-2014)
§ 95.24 (RESERVED)
§ 95.25 (RESERVED)
§ 95.26 REPORTING OF ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   All animal bites of human beings shall be reported to the Northampton
County Sheriff’s Department or the Northampton County Health Department within
24 hours after the occurrence.
   (B)   The report shall include the name and address of the person bitten;
the name and address of the owner of the biting animal, if obtainable; a
reasonable description of the animal; the date and time of day of the injury;
the part of the body on which the bite was inflicted; and, if possible, whether
the biting animal has been vaccinated against rabies.
   (C)   The responsibility for so reporting is mutually charged to attending
medical personnel, veterinarians, owners of the biting animals, persons bitten
and other persons who may have knowledge of the occurrence.
   (D)   All wild animal bites to dogs, cats, and other companion animals, and
livestock shall be reported to the Northampton County Sheriff's Department or
the Northampton County Health Department within 24 hours after the occurrence.
   (E)   Such report shall include a reasonable description of the animal
bitten, if obtainable; the date, place, and time of day of the incident; and
the species of biting wild animal.
   (F)   The responsibility for so reporting wild animal bites to dogs, cats,
and other companion animals, and livestock is mutually charged to
veterinarians, owners of the animal bitten, and other persons who may have
knowledge of the occurrence.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2017)
§ 95.27 CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS EXPOSED TO KNOWN OR SUSPECTED
RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Dogs or cats which have not been vaccinated for rabies and which come
into contact with a known or suspected rabid animal shall be quarantined by the
owner in accordance with standards and requirements established by the
Northampton County Health Department or shall be euthanized at the discretion
of the District Health Director. If the owner is allowed and elects to
quarantine the animal, the animal shall be held at the Eastern Shore Regional
Animal Control Facility for a period not to exceed ten calendar days while the
owner constructs an approved quarantine enclosure. The animal shall then be
transported by an Animal Control Officer and a representative from the Health
Department directly to the quarantine enclosure constructed by the owner. While
being held in the Eastern Shore Regional Animal Control Facility, the animal
shall be maintained in a special quarantine area and the owner shall pay all
fees incurred during the quarantine period. If the owner has not constructed
the quarantine enclosure by the end of the ten-day quarantine period in the
Eastern Shore Regional Animal Control Facility, the animal shall be euthanized
at the discretion of the District Health Director. Any animal which is so
quarantined which breaks quarantine shall be euthanized at the direction of the
District Health Director.
   (B)   Dogs or cats which are currently vaccinated for rabies and which come
in contact with a known or suspected rabid animal shall be re- vaccinated
immediately and shall be confined by the owner in accordance with a quarantine
agreement with the Northampton County Health Department for a period of 45
days, pursuant to VA Code § 3.2-6522.
   (C)   Animals other than dogs or cats which come in contact with a known or
suspected rabid animal shall be quarantined by the owner in accordance with
standards and requirements established by the Northampton County Health
Department or shall be euthanized at the discretion of the District Health
Director.
   (D)   Any animal which is required to be quarantined by the Northampton
County Health Department, which begins to exhibit symptoms suggestive of rabies
during the quarantine period, shall be:
      (1)   Euthanized; or
      (2)   Euthanized and tested at the discretion of the District Health
Director.
   (E)   All expenses in connection with the provisions of this section shall
be borne by the owner of the animal in question.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2017)
§ 95.28 CONFINEMENT OF BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat which has bitten a person shall be quarantined by the
owner in accordance with a quarantine agreement with the Northampton County
Health Department. Any such animal which breaks the quarantine shall be
impounded at the Eastern Shore Regional Animal Control Facility for the
remainder of the ten-day quarantine period. The owner shall pay all fees
incurred during the quarantine period.
   (B)   Any stray or unwanted dog or cat that bites or otherwise exposes a
person may be euthanized and tested at the discretion of the District Health
Director.
   (C)   Animals, other than dogs or cats, which might have exposed a person, a
pet, or livestock to rabies may be euthanized and tested at the discretion of
the District Health Director.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 95.29 IMPOUNDMENT OF UNVACCINATED OR UNLICENSED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the official charged with the
enforcement of this subchapter to impound in the Eastern Shore Regional Animal
Control Facility or other appropriate pound any dog or cat which does not have
a current and valid certificate of rabies vaccination or any dog or cat which
has not been licensed as provided in §
95.23.
      (2)   Any such dog or cat shall be held in the pound for the prescribed
holding period in accordance with VA Code § 3.2-6546, unless the dog or cat is
rabid or suspected of being rabid, in which case the dog or cat shall be held
for further observation or destroyed humanely, pursuant to §
95.27, upon authorization of the District Health Director or any person charged
with the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any dog or cat impounded under this section which is not rabid or
suspected of being rabid may be redeemed by the owner at any time within the
prescribed holding period in accordance with VA Code § 3.2-6546, after paying
the licensing and vaccinating fees and any other fees or fines that may be
required by the county or the Eastern Shore Regional Animal Control Facility,
before release of the dog or cat.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2017)
§ 95.30 (RESERVED)
§ 95.31 CONCEALING OR WITHHOLDING AN ANIMAL TO PREVENT ITS DESTRUCTION OR
CONFINEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal or withhold any dog, cat, or
other animal to keep it from being destroyed or confined in accordance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997)
§ 95.32 (RESERVED)
§ 95.33 (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 96: OPERATION OF VESSELS ON COUNTY WATERWAYS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Operation of vessels in no wake zones in the county waterways
   
96.03   Procedure for establishing or removing no wake buoys or markers
   
96.04   Established no wake zones
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORBOAT. Any vessel propelled by machinery whether or not the machinery is
the principal source of propulsion.
   NO WAKE. Operation of a motorboat at the slowest possible speed required to
maintain steerage and headway.
   OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise control the movement of a motorboat or a
vessel.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A motorboat less than 16 feet in length which uses an
inboard motor powering a jet pump, as its primary motive power and which is
designed to be operated by a person sitting, standing, or kneeling on, rather
than in the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside, the vessel.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation on water.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 96.02 OPERATION OF VESSELS IN NO WAKE ZONES IN THE COUNTY WATERWAYS.
   No person shall operate a motorboat or vessel, which shall include personal
watercraft, at such a speed as to create a wake, swell or displacement wave in
and on any waterway in Northampton County that has been designated by a "no
wake" buoy or other marker pursuant to this chapter and the authority provided
under VA Code § 29.1-744, as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03 PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING OR REMOVING NO WAKE BUOYS OR MARKERS.
   (A)   Any person who desires to place or remove "no wake" buoys or other
markers relating to safe and efficient operation of vessels shall apply to the
County Administrator who shall prepare the material necessary for the request
to be formally considered and acted on by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for paying the costs of a legal
advertisement to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county. The advertisement shall be published at least 14 days before a meeting
of the Board of Supervisors at which such application shall be considered.
   (C)   If the Board of Supervisors approved the request, the County
Administrator shall forward the request, along with documentation of the
Board's action, to the Director of the Virginia Department of Game & Inland
Fisheries.
   (D)   The Director will, within 30 days, approve, disapprove or approve with
modifications the placement type of "no wake" buoy or marker to be used, or the
removal of "no wake" buoys or markers.
   (E)   As used in this chapter, the term PERSON or APPLICANT may include the
Board of Supervisors acting on its own initiative.
   (F)   Upon authorization by the Virginia Department of Game & Inland
Fisheries, the applicant shall place and maintain the approved regulatory
marker(s), or remove the markers. The placement, maintenance or removal of the
markers or buoys shall be at the expense of the applicant.
   (G)   Any marker or buoy which is not in conformance with the Virginia
Department of Game & Inland Fisheries regulations, or which is not properly
maintained may be removed.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 96.04 ESTABLISHED NO WAKE ZONES.
   Upon the application of the Board of Supervisors, the Board finds that the
hereinafter described "no wake" zone would protect the public safety and
prevent erosion damage to adjacent property, and accordingly approves and
establishes the same, subject to the approval of the Virginia Department of
Game & Inland Fisheries:
   (A)   A "no wake" zone in the Virginia Inside Passage, for a distance of
approximately 6,000 feet near the Wise Point Boat Ramp, to be established
between the following points:
         Latitude      Longitude
      (1)   37°7'18.02" N      75°57'25.1" W
      (2)   37°8'00.1" N      75°56'32" W
   (B)   Buoys or markers designating the above described "no wake" zone shall
be installed in accordance with direction from the Virginia Department of Game
& Inland Fisheries.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   All law enforcement officers may enforce the proper observance by watercraft
operators of any marker installed under this chapter. Violations shall
constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
CHAPTER 97: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and authority
   
97.02   Scope and application of chapter
   
97.03   Definitions
   
97.04   Prohibitions on open burning
   
97.05   Permissible open burning
   
97.06   Attendance at fires
   
97.07   Notification of 911 Center
   
97.08   Precautions required to prevent spread of fire
   
97.09   Permits
   
97.10   Demolition permit required
   
97.11   Suspension of burning
   
97.12   Responsibilities of owner
   
97.13   Issuance of summons authorized
   
97.14   Liability for causing damage by fire
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect public health, safety, and
welfare by regulating open burning within the county to achieve and maintain,
to the greatest extent practicable, a level of air quality that will provide
comfort and convenience while promoting economic and social development. This
chapter is intended to supplement the applicable regulations promulgated by the
Air Pollution Control Board and other applicable regulations and laws.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-922.1, as amended.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-19-2013)
§ 97.02 SCOPE AND APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Scope. This chapter shall apply to all areas of the county, including
incorporated towns.
   (B)   Application of chapter.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter apply to any person who permits or
engages in open burning or who permits or engages in burning using open pit
incinerators, conical burners (teepee burners), and such other devices or
methods specifically designed to provide good combustion performance.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to air curtain
incinerators subject to the provisions of Article 45 (9 VAC 5-40-6250 et seq.),
46 (9 VAC 5-40-6550 et seq.), or 54 (9 VAC 5-40-7950 et seq.) of 9 VAC 5
Chapter 40 or Subparts Eb, AAAA or CCCC of 40 CFR 60.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and subsequent amendments or any orders
issued by the county, the words or phrases shall have the meaning given them in
this section.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any lot or place which is exposed to the weather and
upon which more than five motor vehicles of any kind, incapable of being
operated, and which it would not be economically practical to make operative,
are placed, located or found.
   BUILT-UP AREA. Any area with a substantial portion covered by industrial,
commercial or residential buildings.
   CLEAN BURNING WASTE. Waste which is not prohibited to be burned under this
chapter and which consists only of 100% wood waste, 100% clean  lumber or clean
wood, 100% yard waste, or 100% mixture of only any combination of wood waste,
clean lumber, clean wood or yard waste.
   CLEAN WOOD. Uncontaminated natural or untreated wood. Clean wood includes,
but is not limited to, by-products of harvesting activities conducted for
forest management or commercial logging, or mill residues consisting of bark,
chips, edgings, sawdust, shavings or slabs. It does not include wood that has
been treated, adulterated, or chemically changed in some way; treated with
glues, binders or resins; or painted, stained or coated.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All solid waste generated by establishments engaged in
business operations other than manufacturing or construction. This category
includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the operation of stores,
markets, office buildings, restaurants and shopping centers.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Solid waste which is produced or generated during
construction, remodeling, or repair of pavements, houses, commercial buildings
and other structures. Construction waste consists of lumber, wire, sheetrock,
broken brick, shingles, glass, pipes, concrete, and metal and plastics if the
metal or plastics are a part of the materials of construction or empty
containers for such materials. Paints, coatings, solvents, asbestos, any
liquid, compressed gases or semi-liquids, and garbage are not construction
wastes and the disposal of such materials shall be in accordance with the
regulations of the Virginia Waste Management Board.
   DEBRIS WASTE. Wastes resulting from land clearing operations. Debris wastes
include but are not limited to stumps, wood, brush, leaves, soil and road
spoils.
   DEMOLITION WASTE. That solid waste which is produced by the destruction of
structures, their foundations, or both and includes the same materials as
construction waste.
   GARBAGE. Readily putrescible discarded materials composed of animal,
vegetable or other organic matter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A "hazardous waste" as described in 9 VAC 20 Chapter 60 (9
VAC 20-60) (Hazardous Waste Management Regulations).
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Any waste material, including garbage, trash and refuse
derived from households. For purposes of this regulation, households include
single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations,
crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day-use recreation areas.
Household wastes do not include sanitary waste in septic tanks (septage) which
is regulated by other state agencies.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial
process that is not a regulated hazardous waste. Such waste may include but is
not limited to waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes:
electric power generation; fertilizer/agricultural chemicals; food and related
products/by products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel manufacturing;
leather and leather products; nonferrous metals manufacturing/foundries;
organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing; pulp and paper industry;
rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay and concrete
products; textile manufacturing; transportation equipment; and water treatment.
This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary landfills.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of solid waste without:
      (1)   Control of combustion air to maintain adequate temperature for
efficient combustion;
      (2)   Containment of the combustion reaction in an enclosed device to
provide sufficient residence time and mixing for complete combustion; and
      (3)   Control of the combustion products' emission.
   OPEN PIT INCINERATOR. A device used to burn waste for the primary purpose of
reducing the volume by removing combustible matter. Such devices function by
directing a curtain of air at an angle across the top of a trench or similarly
enclosed space, thus reducing the amount of combustion by-products emitted into
the atmosphere. The term also includes trench burners, air curtain incinerators
and over draft incinerators.
   REFUSE. All solid waste products having the characteristics of solids rather
than liquids and which are composed wholly or partially of materials such as
garbage, trash, rubbish, litter, residues from clean up of spills or
contamination or other discarded materials.
   SALVAGE OPERATION. Any operation consisting of a business, trade or industry
participating in salvaging or reclaiming any product or material, such as, but
not limited to, reprocessing of used motor oils, metals, chemicals, shipping
containers or drums, and specifically including automobile graveyards and
junkyards.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. An engineered land burial facility for the disposal of
household waste which is so located, designed, constructed, and operated to
contain and isolate the waste so that it does not pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment. A sanitary landfill also
may receive other types of solid wastes, such as commercial solid waste, non-
hazardous sludge, hazardous waste from conditionally exempt small quantity
generators, construction, demolition, or debris waste, and non-hazardous
industrial solid waste. See Part I (9 VAC 20-80-10 et seq.) of 9 VAC 20 Chapter
80 (Solid Waste Management Regulations) for further definitions of these terms.
   SMOKE. Small gas-borne particulate matter consisting mostly, but not
exclusively, of carbon, ash  and other material in concentrations sufficient to
form a visible plume.
   SPECIAL INCINERATION DEVICE. An open pit incinerator, conical or teepee
burner, or any other device specifically designed to provide good combustion
performance.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from
bushes and shrubs that come from residential, commercial/retail, institutional,
or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other private or public
lands. Yard waste does not include construction, renovation, and demolition
wastes or clean wood.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning or the use
of a special incineration device for the destruction of refuse or waste except
as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning or the use
of a special incineration device for the destruction of rubber tires, asphaltic
materials, crankcase oil, impregnated wood or other rubber or petroleum based
materials except when conducting bona fide fire fighting instruction at fire
fighting training schools having permanent facilities.
   (C)   No owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning or the use
of a special incineration device for the destruction of hazardous waste or
containers for such materials.
   (D)   No owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning or the use
of a special incineration device for the purpose of a salvage operation or for
the destruction of commercial/ industrial or construction waste.
   (E)   Controlled burning operations in connection with tomato harvesting
shall be exempted from this section; however, open burning of bulk polyethylene
and plastic sheeting shall be prohibited. Bona fide firefighting instruction at
firefighting training schools having permanent facilities shall be exempted
from this section.
   (F)   Campfires conducted in designated campgrounds or other camping
facilities shall be exempted from this section.
   (G)   Brush-pile burning conducted by the county under its burn permit as
issued by the commonwealth shall be exempted from this section.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.05 PERMISSIBLE OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning pursuant to a permit issued by the Department of Environmental
Quality.
   (A)   Open burning for training and instruction of governmental, volunteer
or industrial firefighters under the supervision of the designated official and
industrial in-house fire fighting personnel. Whenever a building or structure
is used by one or more fire companies for bona fide firefighting instruction,
the owner or his agent shall be exempted from the requirements, provided a fire
company is in attendance at all times fires are conducted.
   (B)   Open burning for camp fires or other fires that are used solely for
recreational purposes, for ceremonial occasions, for outdoor noncommercial
preparation of food, and for warming of outdoor workers; however, applicable
materials specified in this chapter shall not be burned, and such fires shall
be attended at all times. Notice of open fires specified in this section shall
not be required.
   (C)   Open burning for the destruction of any combustible liquid or gaseous
material by burning in a flare or flare stack.
   (D)   Open burning for the destruction of classified military documents.
   (E)   Open burning of forests and fields in accordance with forest
management and agricultural practices approved by the Air Pollution Control
Board provided that the burn area is at least 1,000 feet away from any occupied
building unless the occupant has granted prior permission and in accordance
with the Department of Forestry's Smoke Management Plan (ref: 9 VAC 5-40-5631).
   (F)   Open burning is permitted on site for the destruction of household
waste by homeowners or tenants, provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The burning takes place on the premises of the dwelling;
      (2)   Animal carcasses or animal wastes are not burned;
      (3)   Garbage is not burned;
      (4)   The location of the burning is not less than 300 feet from any
occupied building unless the occupants have given prior permission, other than
a building located on the property on which the burning is conducted;
      (5)   No regularly scheduled public or private collection service for
such refuse is available at the adjacent street or public road; and
      (6)   The notification provisions of §
97.07 shall not apply to the open burning of household waste by homeowners or
tenants as provided in this section.
   (G)   Open burning is permitted for the disposal of debris waste resulting
from property maintenance, from the development or modification of roads and
highways, parking areas, railroad tracks, pipelines, power and communication
lines, buildings or building areas, sanitary landfills, or from any other
clearing operations which may be approved by (designated local official),
provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All reasonable efforts shall be made to minimize the amount of
material burned, with the number and size of the debris piles approved by
(designated local official);
      (2)   The material to be burned shall consist of brush, stumps and
similar debris waste and shall not include demolition material;
      (3)   The burning shall be at least 500 feet from any occupied building
unless the occupants have given prior permission, other than a building located
on the property on which the burning is conducted;
      (4)   The burning shall be conducted at the greatest distance practical
from highways and air fields; and
      (5)   The burning shall be conducted only when the prevailing winds are
away from any city, town or built-up area.
   (H)   Open burning or the use of special incineration devices is permitted
on site for the destruction of clean burning waste and debris waste resulting
from property maintenance, from the development or modification of roads and
highways, parking areas, railroad tracks, pipelines, power and communication
lines, buildings or building areas, sanitary landfills, or from any other
clearing operations.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.06 ATTENDANCE AT FIRES.
   All burning activities specified in §
97.05 shall be attended by a responsible agent of the owner or contractor. All
open burning shall be constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. At
least one portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4A rating, or two portable
fire extinguishers with a minimum 2A rating each or other approved on-site fire
extinguishing equipment such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose, or water
truck shall be available for immediate use. Such equipment shall be sufficient
to extinguish embers.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.07 NOTIFICATION OF 911 CENTER.
   Prior to conducting, causing or permitting any open burning authorized,
specified or referenced herein, the property owner or his or her agent shall
notify the on-duty dispatcher at the Eastern Shore of Virginia 911
Communications Center of the location of such open burning, expected starting
and ending time, the name of the responsible person conducting such operation,
and an emergency telephone number. Such notification shall be made by telephone
or in person not earlier than one hour preceding the anticipated start of
operations. The property owner or his or her agent shall notify the 911 Center
of the cessation of operations within one hour following such cessation.
Whenever a fire company or the Department of Forestry is directly supervising
the open burn, direct notice to the 911 Center shall be required by the owner
or agent unless otherwise directed by the Fire Chief or Forest Warden. The
receipt and acceptance of such notice shall not constitute a permit or
authorization to burn; the owner or other person shall bear full responsibility
to obtain any and all permits required prior to notifying the 911 Center.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.08 PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED TO PREVENT SPREAD OF FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of land to set fire to or to
procure another to set fire to any woods, brush, logs, leaves, grass, debris or
other inflammable material upon such land unless he or she previously has taken
all reasonable care and precaution, by having cut and piled the material or
carefully cleared around the material, to prevent the spread of such fire to
lands other than those owned or leased by him or her. It shall be unlawful for
any employee of any such owner or lessee of land to set fire to or to procure
another to set fire to any woods, brush, logs, leaves, grass, debris or other
inflammable material upon such land unless he or she has taken similar
precautions to prevent the spread of such fire to any other land.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.09 PERMITS.
   Prior to the initial installation (or reinstallation, in cases of
relocation) and operation of special incineration devices, a building permit
shall be required from the county building official, such permits to be granted
only after confirmation that the burning can and will comply with the
applicable provisions in regulations for the control and abatement of air
pollution and that any conditions are met which are deemed necessary by the
county building official to ensure that the operation of the devices will not
endanger the public health and welfare.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.10 DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No property owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning of any
building or other structure for the purpose of demolition or elimination of a
hazard unless he or she shall have applied for and obtained a valid demolition
permit from the building official of the governing body in accordance with the
Uniform Statewide Building Code and the Statewide Fire Prevention Code. The
official issuing such permit may establish such conditions as may be reasonably
necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.11 SUSPENSION OF BURNING.
   (A)   When it is deemed necessary by the County Board of Supervisors or by
the County Administrator ratified by the County Board of Supervisors at the
next regularly scheduled meeting, an open burning ban may be imposed on the
entire county or sections of the county when conditions exist that would make
open burning a threat to life or property, or nuisance as provided for in VA
Code § 15.2-922.1, at anytime during the year.
   (B)   Upon declaration of an alert, warning or emergency stage of an air
pollution episode as described in Part VII of the regulations for the control
and abatement of air pollution or when deemed advisable by the Air Pollution
Control Board to prevent a hazard to, or an unreasonable burden upon, public
health or welfare, no owner or other person shall cause or permit open burning
or use of a special incineration device; and any in process burning or use of
special incineration devices shall be immediately terminated in the designated
air quality control region.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.12 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER.
   Open burning or the use of special incineration devices permitted under the
provisions of this chapter shall not exempt or excuse any owner or other person
from the consequences, liability, damages, or injuries that may result from
such conduct, nor does it excuse or exempt any owner or other person from
complying with other applicable laws, ordinances, regulations and orders of the
governmental entities having jurisdiction, even though the open burning is
conducted in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.13 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS AUTHORIZED.
   A summons charging an offense under this chapter may be issued by any law
enforcement officer employed by the county or by an incorporated town within
the county witnessing such violation without the necessity of a warrant being
obtained by a responding fire company or a complainant.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.14 LIABILITY FOR CAUSING DAMAGE BY FIRE.
   If any forest fire originates as a result of the violation by any person of
any provision of this chapter, such person shall, in addition to any other
penalty imposed for such violation, be liable to the commonwealth and to the
county for the full amount of all expenses incurred by the commonwealth and the
county, respectively, in suppressing such fire, such amounts to be recoverable
by action brought by the state forester in the name of the commonwealth on
behalf of the commonwealth and by the Board of Supervisors on behalf of the
county.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-1429, any person violating this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each separate incident may be considered a new violation.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007)
CHAPTER 98: NOISE
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Administration and enforcement
   
98.03   Violations
   
98.04   Exceptions
   
98.05   Use of sound level meters
   
98.06   Maximum sound levels and residential dwellings
   
98.07   Motor vehicle maximum sound levels; amplified sound from vehicles
   
98.08   Specific prohibitions
   
98.09   Severability
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
   AUDIBLE AND DISCERNABLE. The sound can be heard by the human ear, and the
sound is sufficiently distinct such that its source can be clearly identified.
   BACKGROUND NOISE LEVEL. The aggregate of all sound sources impacting at the
place where a specific sound generation is measured or evaluated, excluding the
specific sound generation itself.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to
the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the
reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square
meter).
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical injury or illness or property damage that requires immediate
action.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical injury or illness or property damage threatened or
caused by an emergency.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR). The value specified by the manufacturer
as the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor vehicle. In cases
where trailers and tractors are separable, the gross combination weight rating
(GCWR), which is the value specified by the manufacturer as the recommended
maximum loaded weight of the combination vehicle, shall be used.
   INSTRUMENT, MACHINE OR DEVICE. Means and refers to any musical instrument,
radio, phonograph, compact disc player, cassette tape player, amplifier or any
other machine or device for producing, reproducing or amplification of sound.
   MOPED.
      (1)   Every vehicle that travels on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground that:
         (a)   Has a seat that is no less than 24 inches in height, measured
from the middle of the seat perpendicular to the ground;
         (b)   Has a gasoline, electric, or hybrid motor that:
            1.   Displaces 50 cubic centimeters or less; or
            2.   Has an input of 1500 watts or less;
         (c)   Is power-driven, with or without pedals that allow propulsion by
human power; and
         (d)   Is not operated at speeds in excess of 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   A moped shall be a motorcycle when operated at speeds in excess of
35 miles per hour.
   MOTOR CARRIER VEHICLE ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE. Any vehicle for which
regulations apply pursuant to section 18 of the Federal Noise Control Act of
1972 (P.L. 92-574), as amended, pertaining to motor carriers engaged in
interstate commerce.
   MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than three
wheels in contact with the ground and any four-wheeled vehicle weighing less
than 500 pounds and equipped with an engine of less than six horsepower,
excepting farm tractors.
   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD OR SCOOTER. Every vehicle, regardless of the number of
its wheels in contact with the ground, that:
      (1)   Has no seat, but is designed to be stood upon by the operator;
      (2)   Has no manufacturer-issued vehicle identification number; and
      (3)   Is powered by a gasoline engine that displaces less than 36 cubic
centimeters.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled device or device designed for self-
propulsion, upon or by which any person or property is or may be drawn or
transported upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary wheels or tracks.
   NOISE. Any audible sound which disturbs or tends to disturb humans or which
causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on
humans.
   PUBLIC AREA. Any real property owned by the government, including, but not
limited to, public rights-of-way, sidewalks, parks, and buildings.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any building or other structure in which one or more
persons resides on a permanent or temporary basis, including, but not limited
to, houses, apartments, condominiums, hotels, and motels.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   SOUND GENERATION. Any conduct, activity or operation, whether human,
mechanical, electronic or other, and whether continuous, intermittent or
sporadic, and whether stationary or ambulatory in nature, which produces or
results in an audible sound.
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
sound level meter and the A-frequency weighting network, as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator or time averager, output meter and weighting networks used
to measure sound pressure levels.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Sheriff of Northampton County shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the noise control program established by this chapter and may be
assisted by other county departments as required.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude a private citizen from
obtaining a magistrate's summons based upon a probable cause determination by
the magistrate's office.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.03 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
to be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor for a first offense. Any person who
violates a provision of this chapter within one year after a previous
conviction under this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (B)   The person operating or controlling a noise source shall be guilty of
any violation caused by that source. If that cannot be determined, any owner,
tenant, resident or manager physically present on the property where the
violation is occurring is rebuttably presumed to be operating or controlling
the noise source.
   (C)   In addition to and not in lieu of the penalties prescribed in this
section, the county may apply to the circuit court for an injunction against
the continuing violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and may seek
any other remedy or relief authorized by law.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   No provisions of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency;
   (B)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work;
   (C)   Activities sponsored by the county;
   (D)   Activities authorized by a permit issued by the county; or
   (E)   Activities for which the regulation of noise has been preempted by
federal law.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.05 USE OF SOUND LEVEL METERS.
   The decibel level of any noise regulated on a decibel basis by this chapter
shall be measured by a sound level meter. The test results shall be prima facie
evidence if administered in accordance with Va. Code § 19.2-270.7, as amended
from time to time. In order to implement and enforce this chapter effectively,
the Sheriff of Northampton County shall promulgate standards and procedures for
using and testing sound level meters used in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.06 MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS AND RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Nighttime. No person shall permit, operate or cause any source of
sound to create a sound level that can be heard in another person's residential
dwelling during the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in excess of 55 dBA
when measured inside the residence at least four feet from the wall nearest the
source, with doors and windows to the receiving area closed.
   (B)   Daytime. No person shall permit, operate or cause any source of sound
to create a sound level in another person's residential dwelling during the
hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. in excess of 65 dBA when measured inside
the residence at least four feet from the wall nearest the source, with doors
and windows to the receiving area closed.
   (C)   Measurements in multifamily dwellings or mixed use structures. In a
structure used as a multifamily dwelling or a mixed use structure, the Sheriff
may take measurements to determine sound levels from indoor common areas or
other dwelling units within the structure, when requested to do so by a
residential occupant in possession and control thereof. Such measurement shall
be taken at a point at least four feet from the wall, ceiling or floor nearest
the noise source, with doors and windows to the receiving area closed.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following activities or sources of noise shall be
exempt from the daytime prohibition set forth in division (B) of this section:
      (1)   Band performances or practices, athletic contests or practices and
other school-sponsored activities on the grounds of public or private schools,
colleges, or universities;
      (2)   Athletic contests and other officially sanctioned activities in
city parks or facilities;
      (3)   Activities related to the construction, repair, maintenance,
remodeling or demolition, grading or other improvement of real property during
the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Gardening, lawn care, tree maintenance or removal, and other
landscaping activities during the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.;
      (5)   Agricultural, aquacultural and forestal activities;
      (6)   Church bells, carillons, or calls to worship by other sound-
producing devices;
      (7)   Religious or political gatherings to the extent that those
activities are protected by the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution;
      (8)   Public transportation, refuse collection and sanitation services.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.07 MOTOR VEHICLE MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS; AMPLIFIED SOUND FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a public or private
motor vehicle, motorcycle, moped, motorized skateboard or scooter on a public
right-of-way at any time in such a manner that the sound level emitted by the
operation of the motor vehicle or motorcycle, when measured at a distance of
100 feet or more is audible and discernible or exceeds the level set forth in
the following table:
 
                              Sound level in dBA
Vehicle class                 Speed limit 35 MPH or less Speed limit over 35MPH
All motor vehicles of GVWR or 86                         90
GCWR of 6,000 lbs. or more
Any motorcycle                82                         86
Any other motor vehicle,
moped, motorized skateboard
or scooter or any combination 76                         82
of vehicles towed by any
motor vehicle
 
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any motor carrier vehicle engaged in
interstate commerce.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section or chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to play or operate, or permit the playing, use
or operation of, any radio, tape player, compact disc player, loud speaker or
other electronic device used for the amplification of sound, which is located
within a motor vehicle being operated or parked on public or private property
within the city, including any public or private street or alley, in such a
manner as to be audible and discernible at a distance of 100 or more feet from
the vehicle in which it is located.
   (D) The provisions of this section shall not apply to motor vehicles driven
in a duly authorized parade, nor to motor vehicle alarms or other security
devices, nor to the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to
the existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.08 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts are declared to be violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices and similar devices. Sounding any
horn, signaling device, or similar device on any automobile, motorcycle or
other vehicle on any right-of-way or in any public space continuously or
intermittently for more than ten consecutive seconds, except when the sounding
of any such device is intended as a danger warning.
   (B)   Nonemergency signaling devices. Sounding or permitting the sounding of
any amplified signal continuously or intermittently from any bell, chime,
siren, whistle or similar device intended primarily for nonemergency purposes
from any one location for more than ten consecutive seconds in any hourly
period; provided, however, that this division shall not apply to the sounding
of such devices by religious uses or by public bodies or agencies for testing,
traffic control or other public purposes.
   (C)   Emergency signaling devices, security, burglar and fire alarms, etc.
Sounding or permitting the continuous or intermittent sounding outdoors of any
emergency signaling device, or any security, burglar or fire alarm, siren,
whistle, or similar device, including without limitation any motor vehicle
security alarm, siren, whistle, or similar device, for a period in excess of
ten minutes in any residential area and 15 minutes in any other area, except in
response to a burglary, attempted burglary, fire, or other emergency.
   (D)   Audio and audio-visual devices, musical instruments, amplified sound
etc., excluding those in motor vehicles. The playing or operation of any
television, boombox, stereo, phonograph, radio, tape player, compact disc
player, MP3 player, video player, musical instrument, drum, amplifier or any
other device that produces, reproduces or amplifies sound except for those
located in motor vehicles, where the sound, when measured in any public area
including but not limited to any public street or sidewalk, or from other
private property between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. exceeds 80 dB
(A), or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. exceeds 75 dB(A);
provided, however that the provisions of this division shall not apply to any
outdoor performance, parade, gathering, dance, concert, show, sporting event,
or other event sponsored by the county or for which the county has granted a
permit.
   (E)   Noise-sensitive areas. The making of any unreasonably loud and raucous
noise within 200 feet of any school, place of worship, court, hospital, nursing
home, or assisted-living facility while the same is being used as such, that
substantially interferes with the workings of the institution.
   (F)   Construction equipment. The operation of any bulldozer, crane,
backhoe, front loader, pile driver, jackhammer, pneumatic drill, or other
construction equipment between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except as
provided in §
98.04 above, or as specifically deemed necessary and authorized by a written
document issued by the City Manager or his designee.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
§ 98.09 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination of invalidity or unconstitutionality by a court of competent
jurisdiction of any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts thereto.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
   
111.   (RESERVED)
   
112.   (RESERVED)
   
113.   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Business, Professional, Occupational License Fee
   
110.15   Title
   
110.16   Definitions
   
110.17   Administration
BUSINESS, PROFESSIONAL, OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
§ 110.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as a “Business, Professional, Occupational
License Fee for Northampton County, Virginia,” and may be so cited. The purpose
of this subchapter is to impose a license fee on all persons engaged in the
businesses, professions, occupations and trades conducted in the county, to
require a license to be obtained therefore, provide for the collection thereof,
and to impose penalties for failure to comply with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 110.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATED GROUP.
      (1)   One or more chains of corporations subject to inclusions connected
through stock ownership with a common parent corporation which is a corporation
subject to inclusion if:
         (a)   Stock possessing at least 80% of the voting power of all classes
of stock and at least 80% of each class of the nonvoting stock of each of the
corporations subject to inclusion, except the common parent corporation, is
directly by one or more the other corporations subject to inclusion; and
         (b)   The common parent corporation directly owns stock possessing at
least 80% of the voting power of all classes of stock and at least 80% of each
class of the nonvoting stock of at least one of the other subject to inclusion
corporations. As used in this division, the term “stock” docs not include
nonvoting stock which is limited and preferred as to dividends; the phrase
“corporation subject to inclusion” means any corporation within the affiliated
group irrespective of the state or county of its incorporation; and the term
“receipts” includes gross receipts and gross income.
      (2)   (a)   Two or more corporations if five or fewer persons who are
individuals, estates or trusts own stock possessing:
            1.   At least 80% of the total combined voting power of all classes
of stock entitled to vote or at least 80% of the total value of shares of all
classes of the stock of each corporation; and
            2.   More than 50% of the total combined voting power of all
classes of stock entitled to vote or more than 50% of the total value of shares
of all classes of stock of each corporation.
         (b)   When one or more of the corporations subject to inclusion,
including the common parent corporation, is a nonstock corporation the term
“stock” as used in this division shall refer to the nonstock corporation
membership or membership voting rights, as is appropriate to the context.
      (3)   Two or more entities if such entities satisfy the requirements in
divisions (1) or (2) of this definition as if they were corporations and the
ownership interests therein were stock.
   ASSESSING OFFICER or ASSESSING OFFICIAL. The Commissioner of the Revenue of
Northampton County.
   BUSINESS. A course of dealing which requires the time, attention and labor
of the person or engaged for the purpose of earning a livelihood or profit. It
implies a continuous and regular course of dealing, rather than an irregular or
isolated transaction. A person may be engaged in more than one business. The
following acts shall create a rebuttable presumption that a person is engaged
in a business:
      (1)   Advertising or otherwise holding oneself out to the public as being
engaged in a particular business; or
      (2)   Filing tax returns, schedules and documents that are required only
of persons engaged in a trade or business.
   DEFINITE PLACE OF BUSINESS. An office or a location at which occurs a
regular and continuous course of dealing for 30 consecutive days or more. A
DEFINITE PLACE OF BUSINESS for a person engaged in business may include a
location leased or otherwise obtained from another person on a temporary or
seasonal basis and real property leased to another. A person’s residence shall
be deemed to a DEFINITE PLACE OF BUSINESS if there is no definite place of
business maintained elsewhere and the person is not subject to licensure as a
peddler or itinerant merchant.
   ENTITY. A business organization, other than a sole proprietorship, that is a
corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, or limited
liability partnership duly organized under the laws of the Commonwealth or
another state.
   FINANCIAL SERVICES. The buying, selling, handling, managing, investing and
providing of advice regarding money, credit, securities or other investments.
   LICENSE YEAR. The calendar year for which the license is issued for the
privilege of engaging in business.
   PERSON. Individual, firm, corporation, copartnership, company, association
or joint stock association. Such term shall include any trustee, receiver,
assignee or personal representative thereof carrying on or continuing a
business, profession, trade or occupation, but shall not include a court
appointed trustee, receiver or personal representative, in the liquidation of
assets for immediate distribution, or sergeant or sheriff or any deputy,
selling under authority of process of writ of a court of justice. Such term
shall not include a volunteer fire department, a volunteer rescue squad or a
nonprofit organization operating a community center, swimming pool, tennis
court or other educational, cultural, recreational, and athletic facilities and
facilities for the welfare of the residents of the area.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Services performed by architects, attorneys-at-law,
certified public accountants, dentists, engineers, land surveyors, surgeons,
veterinarians, and practitioners of the healing arts (the arts and sciences
dealing with the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and cure or alleviation of
human physical or mental ailments, conditions, diseases, pain or infirmities)
and such occupations, and no others, as the department of taxation may list in
the BPOL guidelines promulgated pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3701, as amended.
The word “profession” implies attainments in professional knowledge as
distinguished from mere skill, and the application of knowledge to uses for
others rather than for personal profit.
   REAL ESTATE SERVICES. Providing a service with respect to the purchase,
sale, lease, rental, or appraisal of real property.
   WHOLESALE MERCHANT. Any person who sells to others for resale or sells at
wholesale to institutional, commercial or industrial users.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 110.17 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   License requirements.  
      (1)   Every person shall apply annually for a license for each business
or profession when engaging in a business or profession in the county if:
         (a)   The person has a definite place of business in the county;
         (b)   There is no definite place of business anywhere and the person
resides in the county; or
         (c)   There is no definite place of business in the county but the
person operates amusement machines or is classified as an itinerant merchant,
peddler, contractor subject to VA Code § 58.1-3715, as amended, operates a
carnival, or circus or is a public service corporation.
      (2)   A separate license shall be required for each definite place of
business and for each business.
      (3)   A person engaged in two or more businesses or professions earned at
the same place of business may elect to obtain one license for all such
businesses and professions if all of the following criteria are satisfied:
         (a)   Each business or profession is subject to licensure at the
location and has satisfied any requirements imposed by state law or other
provisions of the ordinances of the county; and
         (b)   All of the businesses or professions are subject to the same
license fee.
   (B)   Due dates and penalties.
      (1)   Each person subject to a license fee shall apply for the license
prior to beginning business, or no later than March 1 of the license year if he
or she had been issued a license of the preceding year.
   The application shall be on forms prescribed by the Commissioner of Revenue.
      (2)   A fee referred to in division (C) of this section shall be paid
with the application.
      (3)   A penalty of 10% of the fee may be imposed upon the failure to file
an application or the failure to pay the fee by the appropriate date.
      (4)   Under the authority of VA Code § 15.2-1429, as amended, operating a
business without a business license shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of not more than $500.
   (C)   Rate of license fee. The fee for the issuance of a business license
shall be $30 each year. No business license under this subchapter shall be
issued until the applicant has produced satisfactory evidence that all
delinquent business license fees, personal property, meals, transient
occupancy, severance and admissions (if applicable) taxes owed by the business
to the county have been paid which have been properly assessed against the
applicant by the county.
   (D)   Exemptions. No license fee shall be required:
      (1)   On any public service corporation or any motor carrier, common
carrier, or other carrier of passengers or property certified by the Interstate
Commerce Commission or presently registered for insurance purposes with the
Surface Transportation Board of the United States Department of Transportation,
Federal Highway Administration, except as provided in VA Code § 58.1-3731 or as
permitted by other provisions of law;
      (2)   For selling farm or domestic products or nursery products,
ornamental or otherwise, or for the planting of nursery products, as an
incident to the sale thereof, outside the regular market houses and sheds of
the County; provided, such products are grown or produced by the person
offering such products for sale;
      (3)   Upon the privilege or right of printing or publishing any
newspaper, magazine, newsletter or other publication issued daily or regularly
at average intervals not exceeding three months; provided the publication’s
subscription sales are exempt from state sales tax, or for the privilege or
right of operating or conduction of any radio or television broadcast station
or service;
      (4)   On a manufacturer for the privilege of manufacturing and selling
goods, wares and merchandise at wholesale at the place of manufacturer;
      (5)   On a person engaged in the business of severing minerals from the
earth for the privilege of selling the severed mineral at wholesale at the
place of severance, except as provided in VA Code §§ 58.1-3712 and 58.1-3713,
as amended, authorizing counties to levy a license tax on every person engaging
in the business of severing coal, oil or gases from the earth;
      (6)   Upon a wholesaler for the privilege of selling goods, wares and
merchandise to other persons for resale unless such wholesaler has a definite
place of business or store in the county; this subdivision shall not be
construed as prohibiting the county from imposing the license fee on a peddler
at wholesale pursuant to VA Code § 58.1-3718;
      (7)   Upon any person, firm or corporation for engaging in the business
of renting, as the owner of such property, real property other than hotels,
motels, motor lodges, auto courts, tourist courts, travel trailer parks,
lodging houses, rooming houses and boarding houses;
      (8)   On or measured by receipts for management, accounting or
administrative services provided on a group basis under nonprofit cost-sharing
agreement by a corporation which is an agricultural cooperative association
under the provisions of VA Code Title 13.1, Chapter 3, Article 2, §§ 13.1-312
et seq., as amended, or a member or subsidiary or affiliated association
thereof, to other members of the same group; this exemption shall not exempt
any such corporation from such license requirements to be measured by receipts
from outside the group;
      (9)   On or measured by receipts or purchases by an entity which is a
member of an affiliated group of entities from other members of the same
affiliated group. This exclusion shall not exempt affiliated entities from such
license or other tax measured by receipts or purchases from outside the
affiliated group. This exclusion also shall not preclude a locality from
levying a wholesale merchant’s license fee on an affiliated entity on those
sales by the affiliated entity to a nonaffiliated entity, notwithstanding the
fact that the wholesale merchant’s license fee would be based upon purchases
from an affiliated entity;
      (10)   On any insurance company subject to taxation under VA Code Chapter
25, §§ 58.1-2500 et seq., as amended, or on any agent of such company;
      (11)   On any bank or trust company subject to taxation in VA Code,
Chapter 12, §§ 58.1-1200 et seq., as amended;
      (12)   Upon a taxicab driver, if the county has imposed a license fee
upon the taxicab company for which the taxicab driver operates;
      (13)   On any blind person operating a vending stand or other business
enterprise under the jurisdiction of the Department for the Blind and Vision
Impaired, or a nominee of the department, as set forth in VA Code § 51.5-98, as
amended;
      (14)   On an accredited religious practitioner in the practice of the
religious tenets of any church or religious denomination; “accredited religious
practitioner’” shall be defined as one who is engaged solely in praying for
others upon accreditation by such church or religious denomination;
      (15)   On or measured by receipts of a charitable nonprofit organizations
exempt to the extent the organization has receipts from an unrelated trade or
business the income of which is taxable under the Internal Revenue Code §§ 511
et seq. For the purpose of this division, “charitable nonprofit organization”
means an organization which is described in the Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)
(3) and to which contributions are deductible by the contributor under the
Internal Revenue Code § 170, except that educational institutions shall be
limited to schools, colleges, and other similar institutions of learning;
      (16)   On or measured by gifts, contributions, and membership dues of a
nonprofit organization. Activities conducted for consideration which are
similar to activities conducted for consideration by for-profit businesses
shall be presumed to be activities that are part of a business subject to
licensure. For the purpose of this subdivision, “nonprofit organization” means
an organization exempt from federal income tax under the Internal Revenue Code
§ 501 other than charitable nonprofit organizations; or
      (17)   On any venture capital fund or other investment fund, except
commissions and fees of such funds. Gross receipts from the sale and rental of
real estate and buildings remain taxable by the locality in which the real
estate is located provided the locality is otherwise authorized to tax such
business and rental of real estate;
      (18)   On total assessments paid by condominium unit owners for common
expenses. “Common expenses” and “unit owner” have the same meanings as in VA
Code § 55-79.41; or
      (19)   On or measured by receipts of a qualifying transportation facility
directly or indirectly owned or title to which is held by the Commonwealth or
any political subdivision thereof or by the United States as described in VA
Code § 58.1-3606.1 and developed and/or operated pursuant to a concession under
the Public-Private Transportation Act of 1995 (§§ 56-556 et seq.) or similar
federal law.
   (E)   No contractor’s license required except where principal office
located; exceptions. When a contractor has paid any local license tax required
by the county, city or town in which his principal office and any branch office
or offices are located, no further license or license tax shall be required by
any such contractor except when the amount of business done in this county
exceeds the sum of $25,000. In such event, such contractor shall secure a
license.
   (F)   Limitation on county license tax or fee within towns. Any county
license tax or fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall not apply within
the limits of any town located in Northampton County, where such town now, or
hereafter, imposes a town license tax or fee on the same privilege. If the
governing body of any town within the county, however, provides that a county
license tax or fee shall apply within the limits of such town, then such
license tax or fee may be imposed within such town.
   (G)   Display of license. Every person required to pay a license tax or
obtain any license, tag, or sign under the provisions of this subchapter shall
keep the license, tag, or sign in a convenient place; and, whenever required to
do so, shall exhibit it to any member of the sheriff’s department when detailed
or authorized to inspect such licenses or to the Commissioner of the Revenue or
his or her agent.
   (H)   Effective date and repeal of other ordinances.
      (1) This subchapter has been adopted pursuant to VA Code §§ 58.1-3700 et
seq. and shall become effective on January 1, 2010.
      (2)   Any other ordinance related to merchant’s capital tax, as defined
in VA Code §§ 58.1-3509 and 58.1-3510, is repealed as of December 31, 2009 in
accordance with VA Code § 58.1-3704.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011)
CHAPTER 111: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 112: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 113: COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License, franchise or certificate required
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   The words COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM shall mean any facility which
is operated to perform for hire, either in whole or in part, the service of
receiving, amplifying, modifying, or originating television, radio or other
electrical signals for the purpose of transmitting or distributing such signals
by wire, cable or other means to subscribing members of the public, except that
such definition shall not include:
   (A)   Any system which serves fewer than 20 subscribers; or
   (B)   Any system which serves only the residents of one or more contiguous
apartment dwellings under common ownership, control or management, and
commercial establishments located on the premises of such dwellings.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1981)
§ 113.02 LICENSE, FRANCHISE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or operate within Northampton
County, Virginia, any community antenna television system without first
securing from the Northampton County Board of Supervisors a license, franchise,
or certificate of public convenience and necessity in accordance with VA Code §
15.2-2108, as amended.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1981)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Urination or defecation in public prohibited
§ 130.01 URINATION OR DEFECATION IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED.
   Any person who urinates or defecates in public or in a place open to public
view, except in public restroom facilities, shall be guilty of a Class 4
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   WETLANDS
   
152.   COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNES
   
153.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
   
154.1   (RESERVED)
   
154.2   ZONING CODE
   
155.   PURCHASE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS PROGRAM
   
156.   SUBDIVISION CODE
   
157.   (RESERVED)
   
158.   (RESERVED)
   
159.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code
Assignment of Names to Streets and Roads
   
150.20   Road name index adopted
   
150.21   County Administrator to assign names
   
150.22   Registration of names
   
150.23   New street signs
   
150.24   Placement of street signs
   
150.25   Uniform numbering system of land
   
150.26   House or building numbers assigned
   
150.27   Each owner to place upon building number assigned
   
150.28   Street address numbers
   
150.29   County Administrator may make adjustments or modifications
   
150.30   Application of provisions
   
150.31   Violations
Identification and Inspection of \Rental Dwelling Units
   
150.45   Purpose and intent
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Factors for establishing rental inspection districts
   
150.48   Rental inspection districts established
   
150.49   Applicability
   
150.50   Notification
   
150.51   Inspection and certificate required
   
150.52   Certificates of compliance; applications and exemptions
   
150.53   Multi-family complexes
   
150.54   Certificate issuance, inspection fees and enforcement
   
150.55   Spot blight
   
150.56   Appeals; effects
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference in the county, the Virginia
Uniform Statewide Building Code, which is effective September 1, 1973, the
provisions of which shall control all matters concerning the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use location, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings, and all other functions which pertain to the
installation of systems vital to all buildings and structures and their service
equipment as defined by the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, and shall
apply to existing and proposed buildings or structures in the county.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby established a building inspection department
whose responsibility it is to enforce the provisions of the Virginia Uniform
Statewide Building Code as stated in Article 1, § 9 of the Uniform Statewide
Building Code.
      (2)   The cost of enforcement shall be defrayed through the levying of
fees by the locality as provided in VA Code § 36-105. The Department shall have
a building official or inspector who shall be appointed by the Board of
Supervisors of the county.
      (3)   The building official or inspector in concurrence with the chief
appointing authority shall be responsible for the organization and daily
operation of the Department.
   (C)   (1)   No permit to begin work for new construction or other building
operation shall be issued until the fees prescribed in this section have been
paid.
      (2)   No permit required by law shall be issued until all fees prescribed
in this ordinance have been paid.
      (3)   The fees are established at the following rates.
         (a)   General fee schedule.
Building Permit Fees - New Construction
Residential - finished floor areas including mobile and   $0.40 per square foot
modular homes:
Residential - unfinished floor areas:                     $0.32 per square foot
Garages / carports on residential property:               $0.32 per square foot
Accessory buildings on residential property including     $0.28 per square foot
stables and barns:
Minimum residential permit fee (unless otherwise noted):  $100
Non-residential - finished floor areas:                   $0.56 per square foot
Non-residential - unfinished floor areas, shell and       $0.40 per square foot
warehouse buildings:
Non-residential - manufactured / industrialized buildings $400
- each:
Minimum non-residential permit fee (unless otherwise      $200
noted):
Building Permit Fees - Remodeling, Alterations And/or Finishing Shell Space
Residential remodeling:                                   $0.24 per square foot
Non-residential remodeling:                               $0.40 per square foot
Minimum residential remodeling fee:                       $60
Minimum non-residential remodeling fee:                   $100
Additional Items to Be Added to Fees above
Chimneys - without fireplace or wood stove - each:        $80
Decks - 500 square feet or less - each:                   $100
Elevators /escalators - each:                             $200
Decks - more than 500 square feet - each:                 $200
Fences over 6 feet                                        $80
Porches - 500 square feet or less - each:                 $100
Porches - more than 500 square feet - each:               $200
 
         (b)   In accordance with the 2021 Uniform Statewide Building Code
(USBC), Section 107.1.2, the Northampton County Building Department will refund
75% of permit fees when approved by the Building Official and when requested in
writing by the permit holder in the event of revocation, abandonment or
discontinuance of project.
Specific Items
Specific Items
Asbestos removal:                                              $120
Automotive lifts - each:                                       $80
Bleachers/grandstands - per site:                              $120
Bulkheads - over 3 feet high - per 50 liner feet:              $100
Demolition (plus asbestos removal when applicable):            $100
Docks/piers - per 50 linear feet:                              $120
Each small mechanical ride or inflatable amusement device      $35
covered by the permit:
Each circular ride or flat-ride less than 20 feet in height    $55
covered by the permit:
Each spectacular ride covered by the permit that cannot be
inspected as a circular ride or flat-ride in the foregoing     $75
item due to complexity or height:
Each coaster covered by the permit that exceeds 30 feet in     $200
height:
Foundation only:                                               $160
Fuel pumps (NFPA 30) - each:                                   $120
Moved Buildings (plus foundation permit) - each:               $240
Ramp - on residential property - each:                         $60
Ramp - on non-residential property - each:                     $90
Reroofing - residential - per building:                        $75
Reroofing - non-residential - per building:                    $90
Residing - residential - per building:                         $60
Residing - non-residential - per building:                     $90
Safety glass replacement:                                      $40
Swimming pool - residential - above ground:                    $80
Swimming pool - residential - in-ground:                       $200
Swimming pool - non-residential                                $260
Storage tank (NFPA 30) - removal - each:                       $100
Storage tank (NFPA 30) - installation - each:                  $220
Temporary Structures - excluding tents (per 180 days) - each:  $80
Tents - on residential property - each:                        $30
Tents - on nonresidential property - each:                     $90
Tents - multi-tent event - per location:                       $300
Towers and like structures - less than 50 feet - each:         $80
Towers and like structures - more than 50 feet - each:         $400
Wood stoves - each:                                            $80
                                                               $20 per $1,000
                                                               of estimated
Work not specifically listed or unable to evaluate:            construction
                                                               cost, $75
                                                               minimum fee
Gas Permit Fees
Residential base fee - per dwelling unit:                      $60
Non-residential base fee - per location:                       $100
Appliance / fixture / outlet - each:                           $12
Fire Protection Permit Fees
Automatic sprinkler - residential (NFPA 13D /13R) - per        $120
system:
Limited area sprinkler - per zone:                             $120
Automatic sprinkler - non-residential - base fee - per system: $120
Automatic sprinkler - non-residential - additional per head:   $2
Fire alarm - base fee - per system:                            $120
Fire alarm - additional per device:                            $2
Fire pump - per pump:                                          $160
Standpipe system - per riser:                                  $120
Underground fire line - per line:                              $120
Foam, halogenated, chemical systems - base fee:                $120
Foam, halogenated, chemical systems - additional per outlet:   $2
Mechanical Permit Fees
Residential base fee - per dwelling unit:                      $60
Non-residential base - per floor:                              $100
Air conditioners, heat pumps, refrigeration - per unit - up to $60
5 tons:
A/C, heat pumps, refrigeration - per additional 5 tons:        $20
Boilers, furnaces - per unit - up to 100,000 BTU:              $60
Boilers, furnaces - per additional 100,000 BTU:                $20
Commercial range hood - each:                                  $100
Crematoriums - each:                                           $160
Fire dampers - each:                                           $12
Incinerators - each:                                           $160
                                                               $12 per $1,000
Work not specifically listed-or unable to evaluate - plus base of estimated
fee:                                                           construction
                                                               cost.
Plumbing Permit Fees
Residential base fee - per dwelling unit:                      $60
Non-residential base - per floor:                              $100
Appliance, fixture, outlet - each:                             $12
Cross connection / back flow protection device - each:         $20
Prefabricated / industrialized building, moved building -      $80
each:
Underground water service (meter to building) - per lateral:   $40
Underground sewer line (building to town's line) - per         $40
lateral:
                                                               $12 per $1,000
Work not specifically listed or unable to evaluate - plus base of estimated
fee:                                                           construction
                                                               cost.
Sign Permit Fees
Free standing - larger than 10 sq. feet - each:                $70
Building mounted, projecting, roof - larger than 4 sq. feet -  $50
each:
Services and Surcharges
                                                               75% of permit
                                                               fees when
                                                               approved by the
                                                               Building
                                                               Official and
Refunds; base fees are non-refundable. Refunds beyond base fee when requested
permits for work beyond rough-in inspection are non-           in writing by
refundable.                                                    the permit
                                                               holder in the
                                                               event of
                                                               revocation,
                                                               abandonment or
                                                               discontinuance
                                                               of project.
                                                               10% of permit
Fire services surcharge on all building permits - per permit:  fee before State
                                                               Code Academy
                                                               surcharge.
                                                               Statutory.
                                                               Currently 2% of
State Code Academy surcharge (Code of Virginia):               permit fee
Ref: Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, Pt. 1, § 107.2 before Fire
                                                               Services
                                                               surcharge.
Appeals to the Building Code Board of Appeals:                 $500
                                                               $210 (Includes
                                                               initial
Certificate of Occupancy insp. of existing building w/         inspection,
o building permits:                                            inspection
                                                               report and 1
                                                               follow-up insp.)
Change of use inspection:                                      $210
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy- residential - per unit:    $120
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy - non-residential - per     $300
unit:
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy - 30 day renewal            $300
Re-inspection fee (failure to correct previously cited         $120
violation)
Pre-application plan review - residential - per dwelling unit: $120
Pre-application plan review- non-residential - per unit:       $400
Inspection fee for work done without a permit (addition to     $300
permit fees):
Re-inspection fee for work done without a permit (addition to  $600
permit fees):
Lifting of a stop-work order fee:                              $50
Not ready for inspection/No entry fee:                         $50
2nd Plan Review fee:                                           $100
Permit amendment fee                                           $75
Inspection cancellation fee/less than 24-hour notice           $50
 
   (D)   Building code appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by the local building department’s application
of the Uniform Statewide Building Code (USBC) or the refusal by to grant a
modification to the provisions of the USBC may appeal to the Local Board of
Building Code Appeals (LBBCA). The applicant shall submit a written request for
appeal to the LBBCA within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the decision
being appealed. The application shall contain the name and address of the owner
of the building or structure and in addition, the name and address of the
person appealing, when the applicant is not the owner. A copy of the building
official’s decision shall be submitted along with the application for appeal
and maintained as part of the record. The application shall be marked by the
LBBCA to indicate the date received. Failure to submit an application for
appeal within the time frame established by this section shall constitute
acceptance of a building official’s decision.
      (2) The LBBCA shall be appointed and function in conformance with Chapter
One of the USBC section for Appeals.
      (3) Compensation for members of the LBBCA shall be at the rate of $25 per
day, plus mileage at the current rate per mile.
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any other person, firm or
corporation, on or after the effective date of any code provisions, to violate
any such provisions. Any such violation shall be deemed a misdemeanor and any
owner or any other person, firm or corporation convicted of such a violation
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500. In addition, each day the
violation continues after conviction or the court-ordered abatement period has
expired shall constitute a separate offense. If the violation remains
uncorrected at the time of the conviction, the court shall order the violator
to abate or remedy the violation in order to comply with the code. Except as
otherwise provided by the court for good cause shown, any such violator shall
abate or remedy the violation within six months of the date of conviction. Each
day during which the violation continues after the court-ordered abatement
period has ended shall constitute a separate offense. Any person convicted of a
second offense committed within less than five years after a first offense
under this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more
than $2,500. Any person convicted of a second offense committed within a period
of five to ten years of a first offense under this chapter shall be punished by
a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $2,500. Any person convicted of a
third or subsequent offense involving the same property committed within ten
years of an offense under this chapter after having been at least twice
previously convicted shall be punished by confinement in jail for not more than
ten days and a fine of not less than $2,500 nor more than $5,000, either or
both. No portion of the fine imposed for such third or subsequent offense
committed within ten years of an offense under this chapter shall be suspended.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2004; Am.
Ord. passed 1- 11-2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-11-2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-2011;
Am. Ord. passed 6-9-2015; Am. Ord. passed 7-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 1- 9-2018;
Am. Ord. passed 7-8-2025)
ASSIGNMENT OF NAMES TO STREETS AND ROADS
§ 150.20 ROAD NAME INDEX ADOPTED.
   (A)   The “Northampton County Road Name Index” on file in the office of the
County Administrator is adopted as the official listing of names for streets
and roads in Northampton County, and such streets and roads are assigned the
names listed thereon.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, the terms STREET and ROAD shall have the
same meaning and shall also include avenues, boulevards, highways, lanes, ways,
and similar street types.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.21 COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR TO ASSIGN NAMES.
   (A)   The County Administrator or his or her duly authorized agent is
authorized to assign names to any public or private road or street in the
county which provides access to two or more occupied buildings.
   (B)   The County Administrator or his or her duly authorized agent is
authorized to negotiate with residents along streets or roads bearing duplicate
or confusingly similar names in the county and to change the names of such
roads or streets to eliminate such duplications.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.22 REGISTRATION OF NAMES.
   (A)   No street or road within the county shall be assigned a name on a
subdivision plat or otherwise until such name is registered with the County
Administrator or his duly authorized agent, approved, and added to the
“Northampton County Road Name Index.” The County Administrator shall have
authority to refuse registration of any name already in use, confusingly
similar to a name already registered, or deemed confusing for purposes of
emergency response.
   (B)   No street or road name currently shown on a subdivision plat filed
with the county or otherwise shall be implemented by a subdivision owner until
such name has been registered with the County Administrator or his duly
authorized agent, approved, and added to the “Northampton County Road Name
Index;” provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any road or
street presently constructed on which street signs have been placed prior to
the effective date of this subchapter. The County Administrator shall have the
right to refuse registration of any name already in use, confusingly similar to
a name already registered, or deemed confusing for purposes of emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.23 NEW STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   All new street signs erected within Northampton County shall be in
conformance with the specifications of this section, unless a variance is
granted by the Virginia Department of Transportation, the Eastern Shore of
Virginia 9-1-1 Commission, or the Northampton County Board of Supervisors. The
minimum height of each sign blank shall be six inches with four inch Series C
letters for the street name and two inch Series C letters for the suffix street
type abbreviation, except that the minimum height of each sign blank at
intersections of state-maintained highways with U.S. 13, hereinafter known as
Lankford Highway, shall be nine inches with six inch Series C letters for the
street name and three inch Series C letters for the suffix street type
abbreviation. The maximum length of each sign blank shall be 54 inches; where
the length of a street name will not fit the specified size sign blank, the
lettering may be reduced by one inch and to a Series B letter if necessary.
   (B)   The finish of all signs shall be either engineering grade or high
intensity reflective sheeting. Signs at intersections of public roads or
streets, subdivision streets, and streets which may become eligible for
acceptance as a state-maintained road shall be green with white lettering.
Signs for private roads or driveways assigned names under this subchapter shall
be brown with white letters. Unless otherwise approved by the County
Administrator or his authorized agent, signs at intersections of public and
subdivision roads shall be mounted atop 2” galvanized pipes or galvanized U-
channel posts with the signs appearing at a height of not less than nine feet
above grade. Signs for private roads or driveways may be optionally mounted on
the side of a four inch by four inch wood posts at a height of not less than
seven feet above grade.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be interpreted to apply to signs posted by the
Virginia Department of Transportation in conformance with its specifications.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.24 PLACEMENT OF STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   The County Administrator is authorized to direct the placement of
street signs at intersections within the county, the initial costs of such
signs to be appropriated from 9-1-1 telephone taxes as approved by the Eastern
Shore of Virginia 9-1-1 Commission or from other sources as negotiated by the
county or Commission.
   (B)   The owner of any subdivision or other development shall erect or cause
to be erected street signs in conformance with this chapter at any and all
intersections within such subdivision or development upon the construction of
any street on or after the effective date of this subchapter. Where any
subdivision owner is currently required to erect street signs but has failed to
do so, the future erection of street signs shall be in conformance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.25 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM OF LAND.
   All properties or parcels of land within Northampton County shall hereafter
be identified by reference to a uniform numbering system, as shown on maps
filed in the office of the County Administrator. The maps and the explanatory
matter thereon are adopted and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.26 HOUSE OR BUILDING NUMBERS ASSIGNED.
   (A)   A house or building number shall be assigned to each dwelling or other
building in the county. The combination of such number and the road or street
name shall be the official location address of such dwelling or building.
   (B)   The location shall serve as official mailing address for postal
patrons receiving home, rural, or contract delivery.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.27 EACH OWNER TO PLACE UPON BUILDING NUMBER ASSIGNED.
   (A)   When each house or building has been assigned its respective address,
the owner, occupant, or agent shall place or cause to be placed upon each house
or building controlled by him the number or numbers assigned under the uniform
numbering system. The numbers shall be placed on existing buildings within 60
days of notification of the assigned address. The numbers shall be placed on
new buildings prior to occupancy. The cost of posting the address shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (B)   Whenever any house, building or structure shall be erected or located
after the initial establishment of the uniform numbering system as provided
herein, it shall be the duty of the property owner to procure the correct
number or numbers for said property and to affix the numbers to the building in
accordance with this subchapter. An application for a building permit for a new
building shall be considered an application for an address assignment. The
Building Official shall coordinate the application within the designated agent
of the County Administrator responsible for the assignment of addresses and
forward the assigned address to the applicant not later than 60 days following
issuance of the permit. The applicant shall be required to furnish such
measurements in relation of other properties or intersections as shall be
deemed necessary for assignment of a valid address.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.28 STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Street address numbers for residences shall be at least three inches
in height and shall be made of a durable and clearly visible material. The
numbers shall be conspicuously placed on, above, or at the side of the main
entrance so that the number is discernible from the street. Whenever a
residence is more than 100 feet from the street, or when the entrance is not
visible from the street, the number shall be placed along a walk, driveway, or
other suitable location so that the address number is discernible from the
street. Street address numbers shall be of a contrasting color to the
background on which they are mounted.
   (B)   Street address numbers for commercial and industrial structures shall
be at least four inches in height if located within 100 feet of a roadway or at
least ten inches in height if located greater than 100 feet from the street.
The number shall be placed above or on the main entrance to the structure when
possible. If such number is not visible from the street, the number shall be
placed along a driveway or on a sign visible from the street.
   (C)   Apartments and similar complexes assigned a single building number
shall display address numbers on each assigned structure using numbers having a
minimum height of ten inches. Numbers or letters for individual apartments,
suites, or units within these complexes shall be displayed on, above, or to the
side of the main doorway of each apartment, suite, or unit and shall be at
least three inches in height.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.29 COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR MAY MAKE ADJUSTMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS.
   In applying the guidelines specified herein, the County Administrator, or
his authorized agent, shall have the authority to make minor adjustments and
modifications to ensure a logical and efficient street address system.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.30 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable in all areas of
Northampton County outside the incorporated towns. The provisions of this
subchapter shall be applicable within any incorporated town if the respective
Town Council has adopted and endorsed this subchapter by resolution. In such
jurisdictions, the location of each dwelling or building shall be the
combination of the house number and street name assigned from time to time by
the appropriate Town Council or its agent.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
§ 150.31 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the County Administrator, or his authorized agent, has reason
to believe there has been or there exists a violation of this subchapter, he
shall give written notice of such violation to the person failing to comply and
order the person to take corrective measures within 30 days from the date of
notification. If such person fails to comply with the duly issued order, the
County Administrator, or his agent, shall initiate necessary actions to
terminate the violation through criminal or civil measures.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
150.20 et seq. shall constitute a Class 4 misdemeanor. Subsequent to the 30 day
period following notification of violation, each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 4-8-1991)
Penalty, see § 10.99
IDENTIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
§ 150.45 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is hereby stated so as to bring it into compliance with VA
Code § 36-105.1, as amended.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDITIONS WHICH IMMEDIATELY AFFECT SAFE, DECENT AND SANITARY LIVING
CONDITIONS OF PERSONS OCCUPYING A RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Includes
items that violate fire safety; lack of or poor condition of sanitary
facilities; absence of implied or expressed heating systems or equipment; items
which affect the safe operation of electrical and mechanical systems; items
which affect structural integrity of the building and/or the ability of the
building envelope to keep out weather, or one or more other conditions that if
not corrected would be reasonably expected to become conditions that affect the
safe, decent and sanitary living conditions of the occupants.
   DISQUALIFYING VIOLATION. Includes those conditions which affect safe, decent
and sanitary living conditions of persons occupying a residential rental
dwelling unit, or other conditions that violate the provisions of the Virginia
Uniform Statewide Building Code, or multiple building code violations that
indicate in their totality that the dwelling unit is not being properly
maintained.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or structure or part thereof that is used for a
home or residence by one or more persons who maintain a household. DWELLING
UNIT shall not include hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent homes or similar
facilities providing medical care to the aged, infirm or disabled.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY RENTAL DEVELOPMENT. Any development, consisting of ten or
more dwelling units under common ownership on the same parcel of land and
includes all of the multi-family buildings which are a part of the multi-family
development.
   OWNER. The person shown on the current real estate assessment books or
current real estate assessment records.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit that is leased or rented
to one or more tenants. However, a dwelling unit occupied in part by the owner
thereof shall not be construed to be a residential rental dwelling unit unless
a tenant occupies a part of the dwelling unit which has its own cooking and
sleeping areas, and a bathroom, unless otherwise provided in the zoning
ordinance by the local governing body.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.47 FACTORS FOR ESTABLISHING RENTAL INSPECTION DISTRICTS.
   After holding a duly advertised public hearing as required by VA Code § 36-
105.1(C)(1), the Northampton County Board of Supervisors finds that within the
inspection districts described herein below (i) there is a need to protect the
public health, safety and welfare of the occupants of dwelling units inside the
designated rental inspection districts; (ii) the residential rental dwelling
units within the designated rental inspection districts are either (a) blighted
or in the process of deteriorating, or (b) the residential rental dwelling
units are in the need of inspection by the code compliance administrator to
prevent deterioration, taking into account the number, age and condition of
residential dwelling rental units inside said rental inspection districts; and
(iii) the inspection of residential rental dwelling units inside the rental
inspection districts is necessary to maintain safe, decent and sanitary living
conditions for tenants and other residents living in the rental inspection
districts.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.48 RENTAL INSPECTION DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Based upon the findings of the Northampton County Board of Supervisors
as set forth in §
150.47, the following areas are included and hereby declared to be rental
inspection districts which are subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
      (1)   District 1 - Cheapside.
      (2)   District 2 - Weir wood/Bay ford.
   (B)   A map showing the rental inspection districts described in herein is
hereby adopted as a part of this subchapter, and shall be available for public
inspection in the Building Inspection Department. The districts are hereinafter
referred to collectively as “inspection districts” and individually as
“inspection district”.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.49 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to residential rental dwelling
units located within the districts identified in this subchapter, and shall
further apply to certain structures located outside of such districts but
meeting the requirements herein below.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.50 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Not later than 60 days from the date of ordinance adoption, the
Building Official or his or her designee shall give written notice by personal
delivery or first class U. S. mail to all property owners located within the
inspection districts of the requirement to notify the Building Official or his
or her designee of any real property of the owner located in an inspection
district that is a residential rental property as defined hereinabove. The
mailing of the notice by the Building Official or his or her designee shall be
deemed sufficient notice for purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before adopting a rental inspection ordinance and establishing a
rental inspection district or an amendment to either, the Northampton County
Board of Supervisors shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance.
Notice of the hearing shall be published once a week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper published or having general circulation in the locality.
   (C)   Upon adoption by the Northampton County Board of Supervisors of a
rental inspection ordinance, the Building Official or his or her designee shall
make reasonable efforts to notify owners of residential rental dwelling units
in the designated rental inspection district, or their designated managing
agents, and to any individual dwelling units subject to the rental inspection
ordinance, not located in a rental inspection district, of the adoption of such
ordinance, and provide information and an explanation of the rental inspection
ordinance and the responsibilities of the owner thereunder.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of any residential rental dwelling unit located within
an inspection district shall notify the Building Official or his or her
designee in writing no later than 60 days of the implementation date of this
subchapter, that the property is a residential rental dwelling unit. Such
notice and information shall be submitted on a form provided by the Building
Official or his or her designee. The form shall require the following
information:
         (a)   Address the residential rental dwelling unit;
         (b)   The name(s) of each owner of the residential rental dwelling
unit and the street address(es) of the primary residence of each owner of the
residential rental dwelling unit; and
         (c)   The name and street address of any responsible party or designee
other than the owner.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, notice sent by regular first class
mail to the last known address of the owner as shown on the current real estate
tax assessment books or current real estate tax assessment records shall be
deemed compliance with this requirement.
   (E)   Within 30 days of giving the notification required herein, the owner
shall contact the Building Official or his or her designee, and arrange for an
initial inspection of the residential rental dwelling unit by the Building
Official or his or her designee.
   (F)   The owner of any residential rental unit located in an inspection
district shall within 30 days of title transfer, notify the Building Official
or his or her designee of any change of ownership of the residential rental
dwelling unit.
   (G)   (1)   Any owner who fails to timely give any notice as required by
this section shall be in violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to
such penalties and enforcement remedies as provided herein. However, failure to
give timely notice in accordance with division (D) of this section shall not be
deemed a violation if the Building Official or his or her designee has not
complied with division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In any event, the sole penalty for the willful failure of an owner
of a dwelling unit who is using the dwelling unit for residential rental
purposes to comply with the written notification requirement shall be a civil
penalty of up to $50.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.51 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of each residential rental dwelling unit located in an
inspection district shall obtain and permit an initial inspection and
subsequent inspections of such residential rental dwelling unit as provided in
this subchapter. Inspections under this subchapter shall be conducted by the
county’s Building Official or his or her designee who is charged with the
enforcement of this subchapter. If the unit to be inspected is occupied at the
time of a required inspection, it shall be the duty of the owner thereof to
notify the occupants of such inspection and make the residential rental
dwelling unit available for inspection.
   (B)   If inspection reveals that a residential rental dwelling unit has no
disqualifying violations, the Building Official or his or her designee shall
issue a 48-month certificate of compliance for such unit. However, if one or
more violations of the property maintenance provisions of the Building Code are
found that do not constitute a disqualifying violation, the existence of such
no-disqualifying violations shall be noted on the 48-month certificate of
compliance together with the date by which such non-disqualifying violations
must be remedied, which date shall be determined by the Building Official or
his or her designee and which date shall be reasonable. The issuance of a
certificate of compliance shall not be evidence of a lack of any and all
building code violations and shall not prevent the Building Official or his or
her designee from conducting follow-up inspections regarding building code
violations in the residential rental unit, whether or not the violations affect
the safe, decent and sanitary occupancy of the unit. If a follow-up inspection
reveals that the owner has failed to remedy the noted violations by specified
date, the Building Official or his or her designee shall issue a notice of
violation, revoke the 48-month certificate of compliance and the unit shall
thereafter be subject to annual inspections pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   If inspection of a residential rental dwelling unit reveals one or
more disqualifying violations, the Building Official or his or her designee
shall not issue a certificate of compliance until the disqualifying violations
are satisfactorily remedied. However, the Building Official or his or her
designee may issue a temporary certificate of compliance if in the opinion of
the Building Official or his or her designee, such disqualifying violations do
not constitute an immediate threat of injury to the occupants of such
residential rental dwelling unit. If conditions warrant, however, the Building
Official or his or her designee may require that the residential rental
dwelling unit be vacated or remain unoccupied until brought into compliance,
pursuant to his authority under VA Code §§ 36-98 et seq., as amended, the
Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code. Upon compliance, the Building
Official or his or her designee shall, as provided in this subchapter, issue an
annual certificate of compliance.
   (D)   No annual inspection pursuant to this subchapter shall take place more
than one time each year, calculated from the date of the first inspection,
should additional inspections be necessary to achieve compliance. However,
nothing in this subchapter shall modify the authority of the Building Official
or his or her designee to conduct any other inspections, as allowed under the
provisions of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code, and inspections for
obtaining a certificate of compliance under this subchapter do not supplant or
preclude any other inspection authorized under the Virginia Uniform Statewide
Building Code.
   (E)   Unless a current certificate or temporary certificate of compliance is
in force for a residential rental dwelling unit is in force with the provisions
of this subchapter, and such certificate remains in effect, no owner of such
unit shall permit any person to occupy such unit as a tenant or otherwise.
   (F)   A building or structure meeting the definition of residential rental
dwelling unit but located outside of an inspection district shall nevertheless
be subject to the terms of this subchapter on the following basis: The Board of
Supervisors makes a separate finding for the individual residential rental
dwelling unit that (i) there is a need to protect the public health, welfare
and safety of the occupants of that individual residential rental dwelling
unit; (ii) the individual residential rental dwelling unit is either (a)
blighted or (b) in the process of deteriorating; or (iii) there is evidence of
violations of the Building Code that affect the safe, decent and sanitary
living conditions for occupants of such individual residential rental dwelling
unit. Upon said finding by the Board of Supervisors, the residential rental
dwelling unit shall be subject to this subchapter, notwithstanding its location
outside the inspection districts.
   (G)   Should the owner fail to timely contact the Building Official or his
or her designee within the required time in order to schedule any inspection
required under this subchapter, or should such owner fail to allow such
inspection to proceed on the date for which it was scheduled, the owner shall
be in violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to such penalties and
enforcement remedies as provided herein.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE; APPLICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following shall apply to all residential rental dwelling units
located within inspection districts, which are not exempted under this section.
      (1)   (a)   The initial inspection of each residential rental dwelling
unit which is subject to inspection under this subchapter unless the initial
inspection is delayed under division (A) of this section, shall take place no
later than 120 days from the date that the owner thereof contacts the Building
Official or his or her designee to schedule such inspection. However, should
the owner of a residential rental dwelling unit which is subject to inspection
under this subchapter, fail to give timely notice as required by this
subchapter, the Building Official or his or her designee shall inspect the unit
within reasonable time of becoming aware of the unit. Each residential rental
unit for which a certificate of compliance or 48-month certificate of
compliance as described in division (A)(3) below has been issued shall be again
inspected within 30 days from the expiration certificate or expiration or
earlier revocation of a 48-month certificate of compliance.
         (b)   Prior to expiration of the certificate of compliance or 48-month
certificate of compliance, or upon earlier revocation of a 48-month certificate
of compliance, the owner of the residential rental dwelling unit covered
thereby shall contact the Building Official or his or her designee and arrange
for an inspection of the unit. Except in the case of an inspection following
revocation of a 48-month certificate of compliance, should the date scheduled
for inspection be after expiration of the current certificate and more than 30
days from the day on which the owner contacted the Building Official or his or
her designee to schedule inspection, a 30-day temporary certificate of
compliance shall be issued. The inspection shall take place no later than
thirty 3) days from the date of application for said inspection, and the
temporary certificate shall expire on the date of the inspection.
         (c)   As to Building Code violations which do not immediately affect
the safe, decent and sanitary living conditions of persons living in such unit,
and provided that all inspection fees shall have been remitted in advance to
the issuance of such temporary certificate of compliance the Building Official
or his or her designee shall issue one temporary certificate of compliance,
valid for 30 days and may permit such extensions thereof, as the Building
Official or his or her designee shall deem reasonably necessary to allow for
remediation of the violations. However, as to Building Code violations which
are disqualifying violations and which violations which pose an immediate
threat to the safe, decent and sanitary living conditions for persons living in
such unit, then the Building Official or his or her designee shall not issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy.
         (d)   Temporary certificates of compliance shall expire upon the
earlier of their stated expiration date or the completion of an inspection
which finds all violations satisfactorily remedied.
      (2)   Unless a residential rental unit in an inspection district is
exempted from inspection under this subchapter, or receives a 48-month
certificate of compliance as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the
term of a certificate of compliance issued for any residential rental dwelling
unit in an inspection district, shall be for a term of 12 months beginning with
the first day of the month next following the month of issuance.
      (3)   A residential rental dwelling unit which upon inspection under this
subchapter reveals no disqualifying violations, or with one or more violations
of such code that do not affect the safe, decent and sanitary living conditions
for persons living in such unit, shall not be subject to further annual
inspection under this subchapter for 48 months from date of such annual
inspection, except as provided herein, and a 48-month certificate of compliance
shall be issued for such unit. However, if a residential rental dwelling unit
covered by a 48-month certificate of compliance is found in violation of the
Uniform Statewide Building Code during the term of such 48-month certificate of
compliance, the Building Official or his or her designee may revoke such 48-
month certificate of compliance and such unit shall thereupon become subject to
annual inspections and the issuance of annual certificates of compliance. If an
annual certificate of compliance is issued after the inspection necessitated by
the violation of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code and revocation of
the extended certificate of compliance, then the residential rental dwelling
unit shall again be eligible for an extended certificate of compliance only
after the annual certificate of compliance has expired and as of the first
subsequent annual inspection when no disqualifying violations are found.
      (4)   Should a residential rental dwelling unit be sold, or the title
thereto be otherwise transferred to another owner during term of a certificate
of compliance or 48-month certificate of compliance issued for such unit, the
term of such certificate shall end as of the last day of the month next
following the month of transfer of ownership and the new owner shall contact
the Building Official or his or her designee and arrange for inspection of the
unit; provided, however, that if the last inspection of the unit pursuant to
this subchapter occurred during the calendar year of transfer of ownership, the
existing certificate shall not expire until the end of such calendar year.
   (B)   The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter
for the time periods indicated.
      (1)   No inspection of a newly constructed residential rental dwelling
unit located in an inspection district shall be required within 48 months of
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such newly constructed unit.
Thereafter the unit shall in all respects become subject to the requirements of
this subchapter.
      (2)   All hotels, motels, inns, bed and breakfast establishments, and
other similar facilities to the extent occupied by transients shall be exempt
from compliance with this subchapter.
      (3)   All residential rental dwelling units owned by or leased by an
agency of the Commonwealth of Virginia or of the County of Northampton, shall
be exempt from compliance with this subchapter so long as the dwelling units
are operated by such agency in carrying out its public purpose.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.53 MULTI-FAMILY COMPLEXES.
   (A)   If a multi-family complex contains more than ten residential rental
dwelling units, in the initial and annual inspections, the Building Official or
his or her designee shall inspect no less than two units and not more than 10%
of the residential rental dwelling units.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the number of residential rental dwelling units
inspected, the Building Official or his or her designee shall charge the fee
authorized by this subchapter for inspection of no more than ten dwelling
units.
   (C)   If the Building Official or his or her designee determines upon
inspection of the dwelling unit in accordance with division (A) of this section
that there are within one or more such units or the building housing same,
violations of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code that affect the
safe, decent and sanitary living conditions of the tenants of such multifamily
complex, the Building Official or his or her designee may inspect as many
dwelling units as he or she deems reasonably necessary to assure compliance
with the building code in which case, the fee shall be based upon a charge per
dwelling unit inspected, notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) of this
section.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.54 CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE, INSPECTION FEES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided above, there shall be a $50 inspection fee for the
inspection of each dwelling unit. If repairs or corrections are deemed
necessary by the Building Official or his or her designee, and a re-inspection
is required, no additional fee shall be charged for the re-inspection. If,
however, subsequent re-inspections are required, there shall be charged an
additional fee of $50 per dwelling unit for each subsequent re-inspection. No
re-inspection shall be performed, nor any certificate of compliance be issued,
unless all fees have been paid.
   (B)   Requests for an inspection may be made by telephone; provided, that
the Building Official or his or her designee shall in all cases, receive notice
from the owner and payment of the applicable inspection fees prior to
conducting any inspection required under this subchapter.
   (C)   The Building Official or his or her designee shall issue a 48-month
certificate, as provided for above, if, upon inspection, the Building Official
or his or her designee finds that the residential rental dwelling unit does not
have any disqualifying violations. The 48-month certificate of compliance may
be issued immediately upon completion of an inspection in which no
disqualifying violations are found.
   (D)   If the dwelling units fail to comply with any one or more provisions
of Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code and any amendments thereto, the
Building Official or his or her designee shall furnish the owner with a written
list of specific violations. Failure to list any violation shall not be deemed
a waiver of such violation. Upon the completion of all corrections and repairs,
the owner shall arrange a re-inspection of the residential rental dwelling
unit. Re-inspection shall be for the purpose of determining compliance by the
owner with the written list of specific violations furnished to the owner by
the Building Official or his or her designee. However, if upon re-inspection,
the Building Official or his or her designee discovers other violations that
were not listed on the written list of specific violations previously furnished
to the owner, the Building Official or his or her designee shall furnish the
owner with a supplemental list of violations and shall provide the owner a
reasonable opportunity to correct same. This provision, however, shall not
preclude the Building Official or his or her designee from revoking the 48-
month certificate of compliance if the subsequently discovered violations are
disqualifying violations or if the non-disqualifying violations have not been
corrected pursuant to these sections.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.55 SPOT BLIGHT.
   (A)   The county, in accordance with VA Code §§ 36-49.1:1 et seq., as
amended, may acquire or repair any blighted property, as defined in division
(B) below, by exercise of the powers of eminent domain provided in VA Code
Title 25, as amended, and further, shall have the power to hold, clear, repair,
manage or dispose of such property for purposes consistent with this section.
In addition, the county may recover the cost of any repair or disposal of such
property from the owner.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIGHTED AREA. Any area that endangers the public health, safety or
welfare; or any area that is detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare because commercial, industrial, or residential structures or
improvements are dilapidated, or deteriorated or because such structures or
improvements violate minimum health and safety standards. This definition
includes, without limitation, areas previously designed as BLIGHTED AREAS
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      BLIGHTED PROPERTY. Any individual commercial, industrial, or residential
structure or improvement that endangers the public’s health, safety, or welfare
because the structure or improvement upon the property is dilapidated,
deteriorated or violates minimum health and safety standards, or any structure
or improvement previously designated as blighted pursuant to VA Code § 36-49.1:
1, under the process for determination of “spot blight”.
      REAL PROPERTY. All lands including improvements and fixtures thereon, and
property of any nature appurtenant thereto, or used in connection therewith,
and every estate, interest and right, legal or equitable, therein, including
terms for years and liens by way of judgment, mortgage or otherwise and the
indebtedness secured by such liens.
      SLUM. In accordance with State Code, any area where dwellings predominate
that, by reason of dilapidation, overcrowding, lack of ventilation, light or
sanitary facilities, or any combination of these factors, is detrimental to
safety, health or morals.
      SPOT BLIGHT. A structure or improvement that is a blighted property as
defined in this section.
      SPOT BLIGHT ABATEMENT PLAN. The written plan prepared by the owner or
owners of record of the real property to address spot blight. If the owner or
owners of record of the real property fail to respond as provided in this
section, the county can prepare a spot blight abatement plan to address the
spot blight with respond to an individual commercial, industrial, or
residential structure or improvement, but may only implement such plan in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The County Administrator or his or her designee shall make a
preliminary determination that a property is blighted in accordance with this
section. The County Administrator or his or her designee shall send a notice,
conforming to the applicable requirements of VA Code § 36-27(b), via certified
mail, postage prepaid, to the record owner or owners at their last known
address as contained in the records of the treasurer, the current real estate
tax assessment records, or the records of such other officer responsible for
collecting taxes in the county, specifying the reasons why the property is
considered blighted. The owner shall have 30 days within which to respond in
writing with a plan to cure the blight within a reasonable time.
   (D)   If the owner fails to respond within the 30-day period with a written
spot blight abatement plan that is acceptable to the County Administrator or
his or her designee, the county may:
      (1)   Request the Planning Commission to conduct a public hearing and
make findings and recommendations that shall be reported to the Board of
Supervisors concerning the repair or other disposition of the property in
question; and
      (2)   In the event a public hearing is scheduled, shall prepare a written
spot blight abatement plan for the repair or other disposition of the property.
   (E)   (1)   Not less than three weeks prior to the date of the public
hearing before the Planning Commission, the Commission shall provide by regular
and certified mail, notice of such hearing to:
         (a)   The owner of the blighted property or the agent designated by
him or her for receipt of service of notices concerning the payment of real
estate taxes within the locality;
         (b)   The abutting property owners in each direction, including those
property owners immediately across the street or road from the property; and
         (c)   The representative neighborhood association, if any, for the
immediate area.
      (2)   The notice shall include the plan for the intended repair or other
disposition of the property. The notice of the public hearing shall be
published at least twice, with not less than six days elapsing between the
first and second publication in a newspaper published or having general
circulation in the locality in which the property is located.
      (3)   The notice also shall be posted on the property.
      (4)   The notice shall specify the time and place of the hearing at which
persons affected may appear and present their views, not less than six days nor
more than 21 days after the second publication.
   (F)   The Planning Commission, at this public hearing, shall determine
whether:
      (1)   The owner has failed to cure the blight or present a reasonable
plan to do so;
      (2)   The property is blighted;
      (3)   The plan for the repair or other disposition of the property is in
accordance with the county’s comprehensive plan, and the comprehensive zoning
ordinances; and
      (4)   The property is located within an area listed on the National
Register of Historic Places. In such instances, the Planning Commission shall
consult with the Architectural Review Board, regarding the proposed repair or
other disposition of the property by the Board of Supervisors.
   (G)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall report its findings and
recommendations concerning the property to the Board of Supervisors. The Board,
upon receipt of such findings and recommendations, may after an advertised
public hearing, affirm, modify, or reject the Planning Commission’s findings
and recommendations. If the repair or other disposition of the property is
approved, the County Administrator or his or her designee may carry out the
approved plan to repair or acquire and dispose of the property in accordance
with the approved plan, the provisions of this section, and applicable law.
      (2)   The County shall have a lien on all property so repaired or
acquired under an approved spot blight abatement plan to recover the cost of
(i) improvements made by the County to bring the blighted property into
compliance with applicable building codes and (ii) disposal, if any. The lien
on such property shall bear interest at the legal rate of interest established
in VA Code § 6.1-301.53, beginning on the date the repairs are completed
through the date on which the lien is paid. The lien authorized by this
division may be recorded as a lien among the land records of the Circuit Court,
which lien shall be treated in all respects as a tax lien and enforceable in
the same manner as provided in VA Code §§ 58.1-3940 et seq. and §§ 58.1-3965 et
seq. The Board of Supervisors may recover its costs of repair from the owner of
record of the property when the repairs were made at such time as the property
is sold or disposed of by such owner. If the property is acquired by the County
through eminent domain, the cost of repair may be recovered when the Board of
Supervisors sells or disposes of the property. In either case, the costs of
repair shall be recovered from the proceeds of such sale.
   (H)   If the blighted property is occupied for personal residential
purposes, the Board of Supervisors in approving the plan, shall not allow for
the acquisition of such property if it would result in a displacement of the
person or persons living in the premises. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to acquisition, under an approved plan, by the county of
property which has been condemned for human habitation for more than one year.
In addition, if the county is exercising the powers of eminent domain in
accordance with VA Code Title 25, it may provide for temporary relocation of
any person living in the blighted property provided the relocation is within
the financial means of such persons.
   (I)   (1)   In lieu of the acquisition of blighted property by the exercise
of the powers of eminent domain as herein provided and in lieu of the exercise
of other powers granted in divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the Board
of Supervisors by ordinance, may declare any blighted property to constitute a
nuisance, and thereupon abate the nuisance pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-900 or §
15.2-1115, as amended. Such ordinance shall be adopted only after written
notice by certified mail to the owner or owners of the property at the last
known address of such owner as shown on the current real estate tax assessment
books or current real estate tax assessment records.
      (2)   If the owner does not abate or remove the nuisance and the county
abates or removes the nuisance at its expense, the costs of the removal or
abatement of the nuisance shall be a lien on the property and such lien shall
bear interest at the legal rate of interest established in VA Code § 6.1-
330.53, beginning on the date the removal or abatement is completed through the
date on which the lien is paid.
   (J)   The provisions of this section shall be cumulative and shall be in
addition to any remedies for spot blight abatement that may be authorized by
law.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 150.56 APPEALS; EFFECTS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any determination or decision of the Building
Official or his or her designee made pursuant to this subchapter shall have the
right to appeal such determination or decision in accordance with the
provisions of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code and amendments
thereto.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit, impair, alter
or extend the rights and remedies of persons in their relationship of landlord
and tenant as such rights and remedies exist under applicable law.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to relieve or exempt any
person from otherwise complying with all applicable laws, ordinances, standards
and regulations pertaining to the condition of buildings and other structures.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Building Official or his or her designee to perform housing inspections
in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person willfully failing to comply with the inspection
requirements of this subchapter or the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code
shall be subject to the penalties established in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person willfully failing to comply with the notice requirements of
this subchapter shall be subject to a $50 penalty to be assessed every 30 days
from the date notice is due for each property for which they fail to provide
notice that they own a residential rental dwelling unit owned which is subject
to this subchapter.
   (C)   The remedies set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section are
not the exclusive remedies for noncompliance with the requirements of this
subchapter and the Building Official or his or her designee shall take such
further actions as allowed by applicable law in order to obtain compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter including, but not limited to, seeking
injunctive relief under VA Code § 15.2-1432 and obtaining inspection warrants
as provided in VA Code § 36-105(C)(3).
(Ord. passed 12-8-2009)
CHAPTER 151: WETLANDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Authority
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Permitted uses and activities
Permits
   
151.20   Permit required
   
151.21   Documents open for public inspection
   
151.22   Public hearing on application
   
151.23   Approval of permit application
   
151.24   Bond or letter of credit
   
151.25   Decision regarding permit
   
151.26   Permit in writing, signed and notarized
   
151.27   Expiration date
   
151.28   Zoning and land use regulations
Administration
   
151.40   Applications forwarded to Wetlands Board
   
151.41   Appointment, terms and compensation of Wetlands Board; jurisdiction
   
151.42   Officers, meetings and rules of Wetlands Board; records and reports
   
151.43   Meeting space and services for Wetlands Board; removal of Board member
   
151.44   Appeal and review
   
151.45   Time for issuance of permit
   
151.46   Judicial review
   
151.47   Investigations and prosecutions
   
151.48   Reporting, site inspections and notice to comply
   
151.49   Violations
   
151.50   Injunctions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Northampton County Board of Supervisors, acting pursuant to VA Code
Title 28.2, Chapter 13 (§ 28.2-1300 et seq.), adopts this chapter regulating
the use and development of wetlands.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Virginia Marine Resources  Commission.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Marine Resources.
   GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITY. Any of the services provided by Northampton County to
its citizens for the purpose of maintaining Northampton County, including but
not limited to such services as constructing, repairing, and maintaining roads;
providing sewage facilities and street lights, supplying and treating water;
and constructing of public buildings.
   NONVEGETATED WETLANDS. Unvegetated lands lying contiguous to mean low water
and between mean low water and mean high water.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, company,
business, trust, joint venture or other legal entity.
   VEGETATED WETLANDS. Lands lying between and contiguous to mean low water and
an elevation above mean low water equal to the factor one and one-half times
the mean tide range at the site of the proposed project in the county, city, or
town in question, and upon which is growing any of the following species:
saltmarsh cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora), saltmeadow hay (Spartina patens),
saltgrass (Distichlis spicata), black needlerush (Juncus roemerianus), saltwort
(Salicornia spp.), sea lavender (Limonium spp.), marsh elder (Iva frutescens),
groundsel bush (Baccharis halimifolia), wax myrtle (Myrica sp.), sea oxeye
(Borrichia frutescens), arrow arum (Peltandra virginica), pickerelweed
(Pontederia cordata), big cordgrass(Spartina cynosuroides), rice cutgrass
(Leersia oryzoides), wildrice (Zizania aquatica), bulrush (Scirpus validus),
spikerush (Eleocharis sp.), sea rocket (Cakile edentula), southern wildrice
(Zizaniopsis miliacea), cattail (Typha spp.), three-square (Scirpus spp.),
buttonbush (Cephalanthus occidentalis), bald cypress (Taxodium distichum),
black gum (Nyssa sylvatica), tupelo (Nyssa aquatica), dock(Rumex spp.), yellow
pond lily (Nuphar sp.), marsh fleabane (Pluchea purpurascens), royal fern
(Osmunda regalis), marsh hibiscus (Hibiscus moscheutos), beggar’s tick (Bidens
sp.), smartweed (Polygonum sp.), arrowhead (Sagittaria spp.), sweet flag
(Acorus calamus), water hemp (Amaranthus cannabinus), reed grass (Phragmites
communis), or switch grass (Panicum virgatum).
   WETLANDS BOARD or BOARD. A board created pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1303.
   WETLANDS. Both vegetated and nonvegetated wetlands.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.03 PERMITTED USES AND ACTIVITIES.
   The following uses of and activities on wetlands are permitted, if otherwise
permitted by law:
   (A)   The construction and maintenance of noncommercial catwalks, piers,
boathouses, boat shelters, fences, duck blinds, wildlife management shelters,
footbridges, observation decks and shelters and other similar structures,
provided that such structures are so constructed on pilings as to permit the
reasonably unobstructed flow of the tide and preserve the natural contour of
the wetlands;
   (B)   The cultivation and harvesting of shellfish and worms for bait;
   (C)   Noncommercial outdoor recreational activities, including hiking,
boating, trapping, hunting, fishing, shellfishing, horseback riding, swimming,
skeet and trap shooting, and shooting on shooting preserves, provided that no
structure shall be constructed except as permitted in division (A) of this
section;
   (D)   The cultivation and harvesting of agricultural, forestry or
horticultural products; grazing and haying;
   (E)   Conservation, repletion and research activities of the Virginia Marine
Resources Commission, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, the Department
of Wildlife Resources, and other conservation-related agencies;
   (F)   The construction or maintenance of aids to navigation which are
authorized by governmental authority;
   (G)   Emergency measures decrees of any duly appointed health officer of a
governmental subdivision acting to protect the public health;
   (H)   The normal maintenance, repair or addition to presently existing
roads, highways, railroad beds, or the facilities abutting on or crossing
wetlands, provided that no waterway is altered and no additional wetlands are
covered;
   (I)   Governmental activity on wetlands owned or leased by the Commonwealth
of Virginia, or a political subdivision thereof;
   (J)   The normal maintenance of man-made drainage ditches, provided that no
additional wetlands are covered. This division does not authorize the
construction of any drainage ditch;
   (K)   Outdoor recreational activities, provided that they do not:
      (1)   Impair the natural functions of the wetlands; or
      (2)   Alter the natural contour of the wetlands.
   (L)   The construction of living shoreline projects authorized pursuant to a
general permit developed under VA Code § 28.2- 104.1(B); and
   (M)   Other outdoor recreational activities, provided they do not impair the
natural functions or alter the natural contour of the wetlands.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013; Am. Ord. passed 10-13-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
PERMITS
§ 151.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who desires to use or develop any wetlands within
this county, other than for those activities specified in §
151.03, shall first file an application for a permit directly with the Wetlands
Board or with the Commission.
      (2)   The permit application shall include the following: the name and
address of the applicant; a detailed description of the proposed activities, a
map, drawn to an appropriate and uniform scale, showing the area of wetlands
directly affected, with the location of the proposed work thereon, the area of
existing and proposed fill and excavation, the location, width, depth and
length of any proposed channel and the disposal area, and the location of all
existing and proposed structures; sewage collection and treatment facilities,
utility installations, roadways, and other related appurtenances or facilities,
including those on adjacent uplands, a statement indicating whether use of a
living shoreline as defined in VA Code § 28.2-104.1 for a shoreline management
practice is not suitable, including reasons for the determination; a
description of the type of equipment to be used and the means of equipment
access to the activity site; the names and addresses of owners of record of
adjacent land and known claimants of water rights in or adjacent to the
wetlands of whom the applicant has notice; an estimate of cost; the primary
purpose of the project; any secondary purposes of the project, including
further projects; the public benefit to be derived from the proposed project; a
complete description of measures to be taken during and after the alteration to
reduce detrimental offsite effects; the completion date of the proposed work,
project, or structure and such additional materials and documentation as the
Wetlands Board may require.
      (3)   A nonrefundable processing fee shall accompany each permit
application. The fee shall be set by the applicable governing body with due
regard for the services to be rendered, including the time, skill, and
administrator’s expense involved.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013; Am. Ord. passed 10-13-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.21 DOCUMENTS OPEN FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All applications, maps and documents submitted shall be open for public
inspection at the office of the Northampton County Planning, Permitting and
Enforcement Department and specified in the public notice for public hearing
required under §
151.22.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.22 PUBLIC HEARING ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Not later than 60 days after receipt of a complete application, the
Wetlands Board shall hold a public hearing on such application. The applicant,
the Board of Supervisors, the Commissioner, the owner of record of any land
adjacent to the wetlands in question, known claimants of water rights in or
adjacent to the wetlands in question, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science,
the Department of Wildlife Resources, the State Water Control Board, the
Department of Transportation and governmental agencies expressing an interest
therein shall be notified by the Wetlands Board of the hearing.
   (B)   The Commission or Board shall mail or email these notices not less
than 20 days prior to the date set for the hearing. The Board shall also (i)
cause notice of the hearing to be published at least once in the seven days
prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in this county;
(ii) post a notice of the hearing on its website at least 14 days prior to such
hearing; and (iii) provide a copy of such notice to the Commission for
submittal to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall. The published notice shall
specify the place or places within this county where copies of the application
may be examined. The costs of publication shall be paid by the applicant. In
the event that the Board submits a correct and timely notice for publication
and the newspaper fails to publish the notice or publishes the notice
incorrectly, the Board shall be deemed to have met the notice requirements of
this section so long as the notice is published in the next available edition
of such newspaper.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.23 APPROVAL OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Approval of a permit application shall require the affirmative vote of three
members of a five-member board or four members of a seven-member board. The
Chairperson of the Wetlands Board, or in his absence the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Any person may
appear and be heard at the public hearing. Each witness at the hearing may
submit a concise written statement of his testimony. The Wetlands Board shall
make a record of the proceeding, which shall include the application, any
written statements of witnesses, a summary of statements of all witnesses, the
findings and decision of the Wetlands Board, and the rationale for the
decision. The Wetlands Board shall make its determination within 30 days of the
hearing. If the Wetlands Board fails to act within that time, the application
shall be deemed approved. Within 48 hours of its determination, the Wetlands
Board shall notify the applicant and the Commissioner of its determination. If
the Wetlands Board fails to make a determination within the 30 day period, it
shall promptly notify the applicant and the Commission that the application is
deemed approved. For purposes of this section, ACT means taking a vote on the
application. If the application receives less than four affirmative votes from
a seven member board or less than three affirmative votes from a five person
board, the permit shall be denied. If the Board’s decision is reviewed or
appealed, the Wetlands Board shall transmit the record of its hearing to the
Commissioner. Upon a final determination by the Commission, the record shall be
returned to the Wetlands Board. The record shall be open for public inspection
at the office of the Northampton County Planning, Permitting and Enforcement
Department.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.24 BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT.
   The Wetlands Board may require a reasonable bond or letter of credit in an
amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to it, securing to the
Commonwealth compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the
permit. The Wetlands Board may, after hearing held pursuant to this chapter,
suspend or revoke a permit if the applicant has failed to comply with any of
the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope
of the work as set forth in the application. The Wetlands Board after hearing
may suspend a permit if the applicant fails to comply with the terms and
conditions set forth in the application.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.25 DECISION REGARDING PERMIT.
   (A)   In deciding whether to grant, to grant in modified form, or to deny a
permit, the Wetlands Board shall consider the following:
      (1)   The testimony of any person in support of or in opposition to the
permit application;
      (2)   Impact of the proposed development on the public health, safety and
welfare; and
      (3)   The proposed development’s conformance with standards prescribed in
VA Code § 28.2-1308 and guidelines promulgated pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1301.
   (B)   The Board shall grant the permit if all of the following criteria are
met: the anticipated public and private benefit of the proposed activity
exceeds the anticipated public and private detriment; the proposed development
conforms with the standards prescribed in VA Code § 28.2-1308 and guidelines
promulgated pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1301; and the proposed activity does not
violate the purposes and intent of this chapter or VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter
13. If the Board finds that any of the criteria listed in this section are not
met, the Board shall deny the permit application but allow the applicant to
resubmit the application in modified form.
   (C)   In fulfilling the responsibilities under this chapter, the Board shall
preserve and prevent the despoliation and destruction of wetlands within its
jurisdiction while accommodating necessary economic development in a manner
consistent with wetlands preservation and any standards set by the Commonwealth
in addition to those identified in VA Code § 28.2-1308 to ensure protection of
shorelines and sensitive coastal habitats from sea level rise and coastal
hazards, including the provisions of guidelines and minimum standards
promulgated by the Commission pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1301.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14- 2013; Am. Ord. passed 10-13-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.26 PERMIT IN WRITING, SIGNED AND NOTARIZED.
   The permit shall be in writing, signed by the Chairperson of the Wetlands
Board or the authorized representative. A copy of the permit shall be
transmitted to the Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.27 EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted without an expiration date established by
the Wetlands Board.
   (B)   Upon proper application, the Wetlands Board may extend the permit
expiration date.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 151.28 ZONING AND LAND USE REGULATIONS.
   No permit granted by the Wetlands Board shall affect in any way the
applicable zoning and land use ordinances of Northampton County or the right of
any person to seek compensation for any injury in fact incurred by him because
of the proposed activity.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 APPLICATIONS FORWARDED TO WETLANDS BOARD.
    Following administrative procedures applications received directly by the
Commission over which the Wetlands Board has jurisdiction will be forwarded to
the Wetlands Board within seven days.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.41 APPOINTMENT, TERMS AND COMPENSATION OF WETLANDS BOARD; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In and for this county which has enacted this wetlands zoning
ordinance pursuant to VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13, there shall be created a
Wetlands Board, which consists of seven residents of this county, appointed by
the Board of Supervisors. All terms of office shall be for five years except
that original appointments shall be made for such terms that the term of one
member shall expire each year. The Chairperson of the Wetlands Board shall
notify the Board of Supervisors at least 30 days in advance of the expiration
of any term of office and shall also notify the Board of Supervisors promptly
if any vacancy occurs. Such vacancies shall be filled by the Board of
Supervisors without delay upon receipt of such notice. Appointments to fill
vacancies shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term. Members may
serve successive terms. Members of the Wetlands Board shall hold no other
public office in this county except that they may be members of the local
planning or zoning commission, directors of soil and water conservation boards,
local erosion commissions, or of the local board of zoning appeals. A member
whose term expires shall continue to serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. When such members are appointed to the Wetlands Board, their terms
of appointment shall be coterminous with their membership on the local planning
or zoning commission, soil and water conservation boards, local erosion
commissions, or on the local board of zoning appeals.
   (B)   If the Town of Cape Charles does not enact a wetlands zoning ordinance
within one year from the time this county in which the town is found enacts a
wetlands zoning ordinance, application for wetlands found in the town shall be
made to the Northampton County Wetlands Board.
   (C)   The county having appointed the Wetlands Board pursuant to this
section may compensate the members of the Wetlands Board in accordance with
such terms and conditions as this county may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.42 OFFICERS, MEETINGS AND RULES OF WETLANDS BOARD; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Wetlands Board shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and such
other officers as it deems necessary who shall serve one-year terms as such and
may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any hearing and the taking of any
action, a quorum shall be not less than four members of the Wetlands Board. The
Wetlands Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its procedures,
consistent with ordinance of the county and general laws of the Commonwealth,
including VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13. The Wetlands Board shall keep a full
public record of its proceedings and shall submit a report of its activities to
the Board of Supervisors at least once each year and a copy of its report to
the Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.43 MEETING SPACE AND SERVICES FOR WETLANDS BOARD; REMOVAL OF BOARD
MEMBER.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall supply the Wetlands Board a reasonable
meeting space for the use of the Wetlands Board and such reasonable
secretarial, clerical, legal and consulting services as may be needed.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors is authorized to expend the necessary public
funds.
   (C)   Any Wetlands Board member may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance
or nonfeasance in office, or for other just cause, by the Board of Supervisors
which appointed him, after hearing held after at least 15 days notice.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.44 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   The Commissioner’s appeal and review of decisions made by the Wetlands Board
shall be as provided for in VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.45 TIME FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued until the time within which a request for
review or an appeal to the Commission may be made has expired; and, if any such
request for review or appeal is made, no activity for which such permit is
required shall be commenced until the Commission has notified the parties of
its determination.
   (B)   Following standards as provided in VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13, the
Commission must receive a request for review or appeal within ten days from the
date of the initial decision of the Wetlands Board.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.46 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of decisions made by the Wetlands Board and reviewed by or
appealed by the Commission shall be as provided in VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter
13.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.47 INVESTIGATIONS AND PROSECUTIONS.
   The Wetlands Board shall have the authority to investigate all projects
whether proposed or ongoing which alter wetlands located within the county. The
Wetlands Board shall have the power to prosecute all violations of any order of
the Wetlands Board or any violation of any provision of this chapter contained
in VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.48 REPORTING, SITE INSPECTIONS AND NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   With respect to permits required pursuant to this chapter, VA
Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13, the Wetlands Board Chairperson may require of the
person responsible for carrying out the provisions of the permit such
monitoring and reports as they may reasonably deem necessary. With respect to
any reported activity not authorized by this chapter, or aforementioned
chapters, or with respect to the violation of any permit issued pursuant
thereto, they may direct such onsite inspections as are deemed reasonably
necessary to determine whether the measures required by the permit are being
properly performed, or whether the provisions of this chapter or aforementioned
chapters are being violated. Prior to conducting such inspections, notice shall
be provided to the resident owner, occupier or operator.
      (2)   The resident owner, occupier or operator shall be given an
opportunity to accompany the site inspector. If it is determined that there is
a failure to comply with the permit, the Wetlands Board Chairperson shall serve
notice upon the person who is responsible for carrying out the provisions of
the permit at the address specified by him in his application or by delivery at
the site of the permitted activities to the person supervising such activities
and designated in the permit to receive such notice. The notice shall set forth
the measures needed for compliance and the time within which such measures
shall be completed. Upon failure of such person to comply within the specified
period, he may be deemed to be in violation of this section and upon conviction
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a sworn complaint of a substantial violation of this
chapter, VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13, from the designated enforcement
officer, the Chairperson may, in conjunction with or subsequent to a notice to
comply as specified in division (A) of this section, issue an order requiring
all or part of the activities of the site to be stopped until the specified
corrective measures have been taken. In the case of an activity not authorized
by this chapter, or subsequent chapters, or where the alleged permit
noncompliance is causing, or is in imminent danger of causing, significant harm
to the wetlands or the coastal primary sand dunes protected by this chapter or
subsequent chapters such an order may be issued without regard to whether the
person has been issued a notice to comply as specified in division (A) of this
section. Otherwise, such an order may be issued only after the permittee has
failed to comply with such a notice to comply. The order shall be served in the
same manner as a notice to comply and shall remain in effect for a period of
seven days from the date of service pending application by the enforcing
authority, permit holder or the resident owner, occupier or operator for
appropriate relief to the circuit court of the jurisdiction wherein the
violation was alleged to have occurred. Upon completion of corrective action,
the order shall immediately be lifted. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the Chairperson from taking any other action contained in this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a sworn complaint of a substantial violation of this
chapter, VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13, from a designated enforcement officer,
the Wetlands Board may order that the affected site be restored to pre-
development conditions if the Wetlands Board deems restoration necessary to
recover lost resources or to prevent further damage to resources. Such an order
shall specify the restoration necessary and establish a reasonable time for its
completion. The orders shall be issued only after a hearing with at least 30
days notice to the affected person of the time, place and purpose thereof, and
they shall become effective immediately upon issuance by the Wetlands Board.
The Wetlands Board shall require such scientific monitoring plans as it deems
necessary to ensure that such projects result in the successful reestablishment
of the wetlands, or coastal primary sand dunes protected by this chapter or
subsequent chapters and may require that prepaid contract acceptable to the
Wetlands Board be in effect for the purposes of carrying out the scientific
monitoring plan. In addition, the Wetlands Board may require a reasonable bond
or letter of credit in an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to
it securing to the Commonwealth compliance with the conditions set forth in the
restoration order. The appropriate court, upon petition by the Wetlands Board,
shall have authority to enforce any such restoration order by injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate remedy. Failure to complete the required
restoration shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The duties of the Wetlands Board Chairperson prescribed in this
section may be delegated to their respective designees; however, designees
shall not be those persons who are designated as enforcement officers.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 151.49 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who knowingly, intentionally, negligently or continually violates
any order, rule or regulation of the Wetlands Board established by this chapter
or violates any provision of this chapter or any provision of a permit granted
by the Wetlands Board pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor. Following a conviction, every day the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.50 INJUNCTIONS.
   The Wetlands Board may petition the court to issue injunctions as provided
for in VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained in this chapter,
any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who violates or fails,
neglects or refuses to obey any Wetlands Board notice, order, rule, regulation
or permit condition authorized pursuant to this chapter shall, upon such
finding by an appropriate circuit court, be assessed a civil penalty not to
exceed $25,000 for each day of violation. Such civil penalties may, at the
discretion of the court assessing them, be directed to be paid into the
treasury of this county in which the violation occurred for the purpose of
abating environmental damage to, or the restoration of wetlands therein, in
such a manner as the court may, by order, direct, except that where the
violator is this county or its agent, the court shall direct the penalty to be
paid into the state treasury.
   (B)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained pursuant to this
chapter, and with the consent of any person who has violated any provision of
this chapter or who has violated or failed, neglected or refused to obey any
Wetlands Board order, rule, regulation, or permit condition authorized pursuant
to this chapter, the Wetlands Board may provide, in an order issued by the
Wetlands Board against such person, for the one-time payment of civil charges
for each violation in specific sums, not to exceed $10,000 for each violation.
Civil charges shall be in lieu of any appropriate civil penalty which could be
imposed under division (A) of this section. Civil charges may be in addition to
the cost of any restoration ordered by the Wetlands Board.
(Ord. passed 4-12-1993)
CHAPTER 152: COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Authority
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Permitted uses and activities
Permits
   
152.20   Permit required
   
152.21   Documents open for public inspection
   
152.22   Public hearing on application
   
152.23   Approval of applications
   
152.24   Bond or letter of credit
   
152.25   Decision on application
   
152.26   Permit in writing, signed and notarized
   
152.27   Expiration date
   
152.28   Administration, appeals, enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Northampton County Board of Supervisors, acting pursuant to VA Code
Title 28.2, Chapter 14, adopts this chapter regulating the use and development
of coastal primary sand dunes. Whenever coastal primary sand dunes are referred
to in this chapter, such references shall also include beaches.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACH.
      (1)   The shoreline zone comprised of unconsolidated sandy material upon
which there is a mutual interaction of the forces of erosion, sediment
transport and deposition that extends from the low water line landward to where
there is a marked change in either material composition or physiographic form
such as a dune, bluff or marsh; or
      (2)   Where no such change can be identified to the line of woody
vegetation (usually the effective limit of stormwaves) or the nearest
impermeable man-made structure, such as a bulkhead, revetment or paved road.
   COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE or DUNE. A mound of unconsolidated sandy soil that
is contiguous to mean high water, whose landward and lateral limits are marked
by a change in grade from 10% or greater to less than 10% and upon which is
growing any one or more of the following species: American beach grass
(Ammonphilla breviligulata); beach heather (Hudsonia tomentosa); dune bean
(Strophostyles spp.); dusty miller (Artemisia stelleriana); saltmeadow hay
(Spartina patens); seabeach sandwort (Honckenya peploides); sea oats (Uniola
paniculata); sea rocket (Cakile edentula); seaside goldenrod (Solidago
sempervirens); Japanese sedge or Asiatic sand sedge (Carex kobomugi); Virginia
pine (Pinus virginiana), broom sedge (Andropogan virginicus); and short dune
grass (Panicum amarum). For purposes of this chapter, COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE
shall not include any mound of sand, sandy soil or dredge spoil deposited by
any person for the purpose of the temporary storage, beach replenishment, or
beach nourishment, nor shall the slopes of any such mound be used to determine
the landward or lateral limits of a coastal primary sand dune.
   COMMISSION. The Virginia Marine Resources Commission.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Virginia Marine Resources Commission.
   COUNTY, CITY or TOWN. The governing body of the county, city and town.
   GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITY. Any of the services provided by the Commonwealth or a
county, city or town to its citizens for the purpose of maintaining public
facilities, including but not limited to, such services as constructing,
repairing and maintaining roads; providing street lights and sewage facilities;
supplying and treating water; and constructing public buildings.
   WETLANDS BOARD or BOARD. The Board created pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1303.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 5-14 2013; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.03 PERMITTED USES AND ACTIVITIES.
   The following uses of and activities on dunes are permitted if otherwise
permitted by law:
   (A)   The construction and maintenance of noncommercial walkways which do
not alter the contour of the coastal primary sand dune;
   (B)   The construction and maintenance of observation platforms that are not
an integral part of any dwelling and that do not alter the contour of the
coastal primary sand dune;
   (C)   The planting of beach grasses or other vegetation for the purpose of
stabilizing coastal primary sand dunes;
   (D)   The placement of sand fences or other material on or adjacent to
coastal primary sand dunes for the purpose of stabilizing such features, except
that this provision shall not be interpreted to authorize the placement of any
material which presents a public health or safety hazard;
   (E)   Sand replenishment activities of any private or public concern,
provided no sand shall be removed from any coastal primary sand dune unless
authorized by lawful permit;
   (F)   The normal maintenance of any groin, jetty, riprap, bulkhead or other
structure designed to control beach erosion which may abut a coastal primary
sand dune;
   (G)   The normal maintenance or repair of presently existing roads,
highways, railroad beds and facilities of the United States, this Commonwealth
or any of its counties or cities, or those of any person, firm, corporation, or
utility, provided no coastal primary sand dunes are altered;
   (H)   Outdoor recreational activities, provided that the activities do not
alter the natural contour of the coastal primary sand dune or destroy its
vegetation growing thereon;
   (I)   The conservation and research activities of the Commission, Virginia
Institute of Marine Science, Department of Wildlife Resources and other
conservation-related agencies;
   (J)   The construction and maintenance of aids to navigation which are
authorized by governmental authority;
   (K)   Activities pursuant to any emergency declaration by this county or the
Governor of the Commonwealth or any public health officer for the purpose of
protecting the public health or safety;
   (L)   Governmental activity on coastal primary sand dunes owned or leased by
the Commonwealth of Virginia or a political subdivision thereof; and
   (M)   The construction of living shoreline projects authorized pursuant to a
general permit developed under subsection B of VA Code § 28.2-104.1.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
PERMITS
§ 152.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who desires to use or alter any coastal primary sand dune
within this county, other than for the purpose of conducting the activities
specified in §
152.03, shall first file an application directly with the Wetlands Board or
with the Commission.
   (B)   The permit application shall include the following: the name and
address of the applicant; a detailed description of the proposed activities and
a map, drawn to an appropriate and uniform scale, showing the area of dunes
directly affected, the location of the proposed work thereon, the area of any
proposed fill and excavation, the location, width, depth, and length of any
disposal area, and the location of all existing and proposed structures, sewage
collection and treatment facilities, utility installations, roadways, and other
related appurtenances or facilities, including those on adjacent uplands; a
description of the type of equipment to be used and the means of equipment
access to the activity site; the names and addresses of owners of record of
adjacent land; an estimate of cost; the primary purpose of the project; any
secondary purposes of the project, including further projects; the public
benefit to be derived from the proposed project; a complete description of
measures to be taken during and after the alteration to reduce detrimental
offsite effects; the completion date of the proposed work, project, or
structure; and such additional materials and documentation as the Wetlands
Board may require.
   (C)   A nonrefundable processing fee shall accompany each permit
application. The fee shall be set by the applicable governing body with due
regard for the services to be rendered, including the time, skill, and
administrator's expense. No person shall be required to file two separate
applications for permits if the proposed project will require permits under
this subchapter and VA Code Title 28.2, Chapter 13 (§ 28.2- 1300 et seq.).
Under those circumstances, the fee shall be established pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.21 DOCUMENTS OPEN FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All applications and maps and documents submitted shall be open for public
inspection at the Northampton County Planning, Permitting and Enforcement
Department.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.22 PUBLIC HEARING ON APPLICATION.
   Not later than 60 days after receipt of such application, the Wetlands Board
shall hold a public hearing on the application. The applicant, this county, the
Commissioner, the owner of record of any land adjacent to the coastal primary
sand dunes in question, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, the
Department of Wildlife Resources, the State Water Control Board, the Department
of Transportation and governmental agencies expressing an interest in the
application shall be notified of the hearing. The Commission or Board shall
mail or email these notices not less than 20 days prior to the date set for the
hearing. The Board shall also (i) cause notice of the hearing to be published
at least once in the seven days prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in this county; (ii) post a notice of the hearing on its website at
least 14 days prior to such hearing; and (iii) provide a copy of such notice to
the Commission for submittal to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall. The costs of
publication shall be paid by the applicant. In the event that the Board submits
a correct and timely notice for publication and the newspaper fails to publish
the notice or publishes the notice incorrectly, the Board shall be deemed to
have met the notice requirements of this subsection so long as the notice is
published in the next available edition of such newspaper.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.23 APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Approval of a permit application shall require the affirmative vote of
three members of a five member board or four members of a seven member board.
The Chairperson of the Wetlands Board, or in his absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Any
person may appear and be heard at the public hearing. Each witness at the
hearing may submit a concise written statement of his testimony. The Wetlands
Board shall make a record of the proceeding, which shall include the
application, any written statements of witnesses, a summary of statements of
all witnesses, the findings and decision of the Wetlands Board and the
rationale for the decision. The Wetlands Board shall make its determination
within 30 days of the hearing. If the Wetlands Board fails to act within that
time, the application shall be deemed approved. Within 48 hours of its
determination, the Wetlands Board shall notify the applicant and the
Commissioner of its determination. If the Wetlands Board fails to make a
determination within the 30 day period, it shall promptly notify the applicant
and the Commission that the application is deemed approved.
   (B)   If the Board’s decision is reviewed or appealed, the Wetlands Board
shall transmit the record of its hearing to the Commissioner.
   (C)   Upon a final determination by the Commission, the record shall be
returned to the Wetlands Board. The record shall be open for public inspection
at the Northampton County Planning, Permitting and Enforcement Department.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.24 BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT.
   The Wetlands Board may require a reasonable bond or letter of credit in an
amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to it, securing to the
Commonwealth compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the
permit. The Wetlands Board may, after a hearing held pursuant to this chapter,
suspend or revoke a permit if the applicant has failed to comply with any of
the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope
of work described in the application. The Wetlands Board may, after a hearing,
suspend a permit if the applicant fails to comply with the terms and conditions
set forth in the application.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.25 DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   In deciding whether to grant, to grant in modified form, or to deny a
permit, the Wetlands Board shall consider the following:
      (1)   The testimony of any person in support of or in opposition to the
permit application;
      (2)   The impact of the proposed development on the public health,
safety, and welfare; and
      (3)   The proposed development's conformance with standards prescribed in
VA Code § 28.2-1408 and guidelines promulgated pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1401.
   (B)   The Board shall grant the permit if all of the following criteria are
met: the anticipated public and private benefit of the proposed activity
exceeds the anticipated public and private detriment; the proposed development
conforms with the standards prescribed in VA Code § 28.2-1408 and guidelines
promulgated pursuant to VA Code § 28.2-1401; and the proposed activity does not
violate the purposes and intent of this chapter or Title 28.2, Chapter 14 (§
28.2-1400 et seq.). If the Board finds that any of the criteria listed in this
section are not met, the Board shall deny the permit application but allow the
applicant to resubmit the application in modified form. No permit granted by a
Wetlands Board shall in any way affect the right of any person to seek
compensation for any injury in fact incurred by him because of the permitted
activity.
   (C)   In fulfilling its responsibilities under this chapter the Board shall
preserve and protect coastal primary sand dunes and beaches and prevent their
despoliation and destruction. However, whenever practical, the Board shall
accommodate necessary economic development in a manner consistent with the
protection of these features.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.26 PERMIT IN WRITING, SIGNED AND NOTARIZED.
   The permit shall be in writing, signed by the Chairperson of the Wetlands
Board. A copy of the permit shall be transmitted to the Commissioner.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.27 EXPIRATION DATE.
   No permit shall be granted without an expiration date established by the
Wetlands Board. Upon proper application, the Wetlands Board may extend the
permit expiration date.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
§ 152.28 ADMINISTRATION, APPEALS, ENFORCEMENT.
   In administering the provisions of this chapter and in order to provide for
appellate review and enforcement, the Wetlands Board as appropriate shall, as
to the Coastal Primary Sand Dune Protection Act or this chapter, bear all those
duties and responsibilities and follow those procedures specified in VA Code
Title 28.2, Chapter 14 in the same manner and on the same basis as they
administer and enforce the Wetlands Act and the Wetlands Ordinance of
Northampton County, Virginia.
(Ord. passed - -)
Cross reference:
   Wetlands Board, see §§
151.40 et seq.
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained in this chapter,
any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who violates or fails,
neglects or refuses to obey any Wetlands Board notice, order, rule, regulation
or permit condition authorized by this chapter shall, upon finding by an
appropriated circuit court, be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000
for each day of violation. Such civil penalties may, at the discretion of the
court assessing them, be directed to be paid into the treasury of Northampton
County in which the violation occurred for the purpose of abating environmental
damage to, or the restoration of wetlands therein, in such a manner as the
court may, by order, direct, except that where the violator is this county, or
its agent, the court shall direct the penalty to be paid into the state
treasury.
   (B)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained in this chapter,
and with the consent of any person who has violated any provision of this
chapter or who has violated or failed, neglected or refused to obey any
Wetlands Board order, rule, regulation, or permit condition authorized by this
chapter, the Wetlands Board may provide, in an order issued by the Wetlands
Board against such person, for the one-time payment of civil charges for each
violation in specific sums, not to exceed $10,000 for each violation. Civil
charges shall be in lieu of any appropriate civil penalty which could be
imposed under division (A) of this section. Civil charges may be in addition to
the cost of any restoration ordered by the Wetlands Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Title, purpose, and authority
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Local erosion and sediment control program
   
153.04   Regulated land-disturbing activities
   
153.05   Activities not required to comply with the ESCL
   
153.06   Submission and approval of plans; contents of plans
   
153.07   Erosion and sediment control plan; contents of plans
   
153.08   Permits; fees; security for performance
   
153.09   Monitoring, reports, and inspections
   
153.10   Penalties, injunctions, and other legal actions
   
153.11   Appeals and judicial review
§ 153.01 TITLE, PURPOSE, AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the "Erosion and Sediment Control
Ordinance of Northampton County." The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the
unreasonable degradation of properties, stream channels, waters and other
natural resources of the Northampton County by establishing requirements for
the effective control of soil erosion, sediment deposition and non-agricultural
runoff and by establishing procedures whereby these requirements shall be
administered and enforced.
   (B)   This chapter is authorized by VA Code § 62.1-44.15:54.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   AGREEMENT IN LIEU OF A PLAN. A contract between the VESCP authority and the
owner that specifies conservation measures that must be implemented in the
construction of a: (1) single-family residence; or (2) farm building or
structure on a parcel of land with a total impervious cover percentage,
including the impervious cover from the farm building or structure to be
constructed, of less than 5%. This contract may be executed by the VESCP
authority in lieu of a formal site plan.
   APPLICANT. Any person submitting an erosion and sediment control plan for
approval in order to obtain authorization for land-disturbing activities to
commence.
   BOARD. The State Water Control Board.
   CERTIFIED INSPECTOR FOR ESC. An employee or agent of the VESCP authority
who: (1) holds a certificate of competence from the Department in the area of
project inspection; or (2) is enrolled in the Department's training program for
project inspection and successfully completes such program within one year
after enrollment.
   CERTIFIED PLAN REVIEWER FOR ESC. An employee or agent of the VESCP authority
who: (1) holds a certificate of competence from the Department in the area of
plan review; (2) is enrolled in the Department's training program for plan
review and successfully completes such program within one year after
enrollment; or (3) is licensed as a professional engineer, architect, landscape
architect, land surveyor pursuant to VA Code Title 54.1, Chapter 4, Article 1
(§§ 54.1-400 et seq.), or professional soil scientist as defined in VA Code §
54.1-2200.
   CERTIFIED PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR FOR ESC. An employee or agent of the VESCP
authority who holds a certification from the Department in the classification
of program administrator or is enrolled in the Department's training program
for program administration and successfully completes such program within one
year after enrollment.
   CHESAPEAKE BAY PRESERVATION ACT. VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article
2.5 (§§ 62.1-44.15:67 et seq.).
   CHESAPEAKE BAY PRESERVATION AREA. Any land designated by a local government
pursuant to Part III (9VAC25-830-70 et seq.) of the Chesapeake Bay Preservation
Area Designation and Management Regulations and VA Code § 62.1-44.15:74. A
CHESAPEAKE BAY PRESERVATION AREA shall consist of a resource protection area
and a resource management area as defined in the Chesapeake Bay Preservation
Area Designation and Management Regulations (9VAC25-830).
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative ground cover, including
root mat removal or topsoil removal.
   COUNTY. The County of Northampton, Virginia.
   DEPARTMENT. The Virginia Department of Environmental Quality.
   DISTRICT or SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. Refers to the Eastern
Shore Soil and Water Conservation District.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN or PLAN. A document containing material
for the conservation of soil and water resources of a unit or group of units of
land. It may include appropriate maps, an appropriate soil and water plan
inventory and management information with needed interpretations, and a record
of decisions contributing to conservation treatment. The PLAN shall contain all
major conservation decisions to ensure that the entire unit or units of land
will be so treated to achieve the conservation objectives.
   EROSION IMPACT AREA. An area of land that is not associated with a current
land-disturbing activity but is subject to persistent soil erosion resulting in
the delivery of sediment onto neighboring properties or into state waters. This
definition shall not apply to any lot or parcel of land of 10,000 square feet
or less used for residential purposes or to shorelines where the erosion
results from wave action or other coastal processes.
   EXCAVATING. Any digging, scooping or other methods of removing earth
materials.
   FARM BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The same as that term is defined in VA Code §
36-97 and also includes any building or structure used for agritourism
activity, as defined in VA Code § 3.2-6400, and any related impervious surfaces
including roads, driveways, and parking areas.
   FILLING. Any depositing or stockpiling of earth materials.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling of earth material or any combination
thereof, including the land in its excavated or filled conditions.
   LAND DISTURBANCE or LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. A man-made change to the land
surface that may result in soil erosion or has the potential to change its
runoff characteristics, including the clearing, grading, excavating,
transporting, and filling of land.
   LAND-DISTURBING PERMIT OR APPROVAL. A permit or an approval allowing a land-
disturbing activity to commence issued by VESCP authority after the
requirements of VA Code § 62.1-44.15:55 have been met.
   NATURAL CHANNEL DESIGN CONCEPTS. The utilization of engineering analysis and
fluvial geomorphic processes to create, rehabilitate, restore, or stabilize an
open conveyance system for the purpose of creating or recreating a stream that
conveys its bankfull storm event within its banks and allows larger flows to
access its bankfull bench and its floodplain.
   OWNER. The same as provided in VA Code § 62.1-44.3. For a land-disturbing
activity that is regulated under VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article 2.4
(§§ 62.1-44.15:51 et seq. and this chapter, OWNER also includes the owner or
owners of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate therein, mortgagee or
vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee,
or other person, firm, or corporation in control of a property.
   PEAK FLOW RATE. The maximum instantaneous flow from a prescribed design
storm at a particular location.
   PERCENT IMPERVIOUS. The impervious area within the site divided by the area
of the site multiplied by 100.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom the permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, county, city, town, other political
subdivision of the Commonwealth, governmental body, including a federal or
state entity as applicable, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
   RESPONSIBLE LAND DISTURBER or RLD. An individual holding a certificate
issued by the Department who is responsible for carrying out the land-
disturbing activity in accordance with the approved erosion and sediment
control plan. The RLD may be the owner, applicant, permittee, designer,
superintendent, project manager, contractor, or any other project or
development team member. The RLD must be designated on the erosion and sediment
control plan or permit as defined in the Virginia Erosion and Stormwater
Management Regulation (9VAC25-875) as a prerequisite for engaging in land
disturbance.
   RUNOFF VOLUME. The volume of water that runs off the land development
project from a prescribed storm event.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A noncommercial dwelling that
is occupied exclusively by one family.
   STATE WATERS. All water, on the surface and under the ground, wholly or
partially within or bordering the Commonwealth or within its jurisdiction,
including wetlands.
   TRANSPORTING. Any moving of earth materials from one place to another place
other than such movement incidental to grading, when such movement results in
destroying the vegetative ground cover either by tracking or the buildup of
earth materials to the extent that erosion and sedimentation will result from
the soil or earth materials over which such transporting occurs.
   TOWN. An incorporated town of Northampton County.
   VIRGINIA EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM or VESCP. A program approved
by the department that is established by a VESCP authority for the effective
control of soil erosion, sediment deposition, and nonagricultural runoff
associated with a land-disturbing activity to prevent the unreasonable
degradation of properties, stream channels, waters, and other natural
resources; and shall include such items where applicable as local ordinances,
rules, policies and guidelines, technical materials, and requirements for plan
review, inspection, and evaluation consistent with the requirements of the
Erosion and Sediment Control Law (ESCL).
   VIRGINIA EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM AUTHORITY or VESCP AUTHORITY.
Locality that has been approved by the Department to operate a Virginia Erosion
and Sediment Control Program in accordance with VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter
3.1, Article 2.4 (§§ 62.1-44.15:51 et seq.).
   VESCP PLAN-APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Northampton County Department of
Planning, Permitting and Enforcement responsible for determining the adequacy
of a plan submitted for land-disturbing activities on a unit or units of lands
and for approving plans.
   VPDES PERMIT. A general VPDES (Virginia Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System) permit for discharges of stormwater from construction activities,
9VAC25-880, issued by the department pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15 for
stormwater discharges from a land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.03 LOCAL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15:54, the VESCP authority hereby establishes
a Virginian Erosion and Sediment Control Program (VESCP) and adopts the
regulations promulgated by the Board (for the effective control of soil erosion
and sediment deposition to prevent the unreasonable degradation of properties,
stream channels, waters and other natural resources) and the Virginian
Stormwater Management Handbook. In accordance with VA Code § 62.1-44.15:52, any
plan approved prior to July 1, 2014 that provides for stormwater management
that addresses any flow rate capacity and velocity requirements for natural or
man-made channels shall satisfy the flow rate capacity and velocity
requirements for natural or man-made channels if the practices are designed to:
(1) detain the water quality volume and to release it over 48 hours; (2) detain
and release over a 24-hour period the expected rainfall resulting from the one
year, 24-hour storm; and (3) reduce the allowable peak flow rate resulting from
the 1.5, two, and ten-year, 24-hour storms to a level that is less than or
equal to the peak flow rate from the site assuming it was in a good forested
condition, achieved through multiplication of the forested peak flow rate by a
reduction factor that is equal to the runoff volume from the site when it was
in a good forested condition divided by the runoff volume from the site in its
proposed condition, and shall be exempt from any flow rate capacity and
velocity requirements for natural or man-made channels.
   (A)   For plans approved on and after July 1, 2014, the flow rate capacity
and velocity requirements for natural and man-made channels shall be satisfied
by compliance with water quantity requirements specified in 9VAC25-875-600,
unless such land-disturbing activities are in accordance with the
grandfathering provisions of 9VAC25-875-490.
   (B)   Pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15:53, an erosion control plan shall not
be approved until it is reviewed by a certified plan reviewer for ESC.
Inspections of land-disturbing activities shall be conducted by a certified
inspector for ESC. The Erosion and Sediment Control Program of Northampton
County shall contain a certified program administrator for ESC, a certified
plan reviewer for ESC, and a certified inspector for ESC (who may be the same
person).
   (C)   Northampton County hereby designates the Northampton County Department
of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement as the VESCP plan-approving authority.
   (D)   The program and regulations provided for in this chapter shall be made
available for public inspection at the office of the Northampton County
Department of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.04 REGULATED LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   Land-disturbing activities that meet one of the criteria below are regulated
as follows:
   (A)   Land-disturbing activity that disturbs 10,000 square feet or more, is
less than one acre, not in an area of a locality designated as a Chesapeake Bay
Preservation Area, and not part of a common plan of development or sale, is
subject to criteria defined in Article 2 (9VAC25-875-540 et seq.) of Part V of
the Virginia Erosion and Stormwater Management Regulation (Regulation).
   (B)   Land-disturbing activity that disturbs 2,500 square feet or more, is
less than one acre, and in an area of a locality designated as a Chesapeake Bay
Preservation Area is subject to criteria defined in Article 2 (9VAC25-875-540
et seq.) and Article 3 (9VAC25-875-570 et seq.) of Part V unless Article 4
(9VAC25-875-670 et seq.) of Part V of the Regulation is applicable, as
determined in accordance with 9VAC25-875-480 and 9VAC25-875-490.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.05 ACTIVITIES NOT REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH THE ESCL.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Erosion and Sediment Control Law
for Localities Not Administering a Virginia Erosion and Stormwater Management
Program (ESCL), the following activities are not required to comply with the
ESCL unless otherwise required by federal law:
   (A)   Disturbance of a land area of less than 10,000 square feet in size or
less than 2,500 square feet in an area designated as a Chesapeake Bay
Preservation Area pursuant to the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act (VA Code §§
62.1-44.15:67 et seq.);
   (B)   Minor land-disturbing activities such as home gardens and individual
home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
   (C)   Installation, maintenance, or repair of any individual service
connection;
   (D)   Installation, maintenance, or repair of any underground utility line
when such activity occurs on an existing hard surfaced road, street, or
sidewalk, provided the land-disturbing activity is confined to the area of the
road, street, or sidewalk that is hard surfaced;
   (E)   Installation, maintenance, or repair of any septic tank line or
drainage field unless included in an overall plan for land-disturbing activity
relating to construction of the building to be served by the septic tank
system;
   (F)   Permitted surface or deep mining operations and projects, or oil and
gas operations and projects conducted pursuant to VA Code Title 45.2;
   (G)   Clearing of lands specifically for bona fide agricultural purposes;
the management, tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural,
horticultural, or forest crops; livestock feedlot operations; agricultural
engineering operations, including construction of terraces, terrace outlets,
check dams, desilting basins, dikes, ponds, ditches, strip cropping, lister
furrowing, contour cultivating, contour furrowing, land drainage, and land
irrigation; or as additionally set forth by the Board in regulations. However,
this exception shall not apply to harvesting of forest crops unless the area on
which harvesting occurs is reforested artificially or naturally in accordance
with the provisions of VA Code Title 10.1, Chapter 11 (§§ 10.1-1100 et seq.) or
is converted to bona fide agricultural or improved pasture use as described in
VA Code § 10.1-1163(B);
   (H)   Installation of fence and sign posts or telephone and electric poles
and other kinds of posts or poles;
   (I)   Shoreline erosion control projects on tidal waters when all of the
land-disturbing activities are within the regulatory authority of and approved
by local wetlands boards, the Virginia Marine Resources Commission, or the
United States Army Corps of Engineers; however, any associated land that is
disturbed outside of this exempted area shall remain subject to the ESCL and
the regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
   (J)   Land-disturbing activities in response to a public emergency where the
related work requires immediate authorization to avoid imminent endangerment to
human health or the environment. In such situations, the VESCP authority shall
be advised of the disturbance within seven days of commencing the land-
disturbing activity, and compliance with the administrative requirements of §§
153.06 -
153.08 are required within 30 days of commencing the land-disturbing activity;
   (K)   Discharges to a sanitary sewer or a combined sewer system that are not
from a land-disturbing activity; and
   (L)   Repair or rebuilding of the tracks, rights-of-way, bridges,
communication facilities, and other related structures and facilities of a
railroad company.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.06 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLANS; CONTENTS OF PLANS.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, no person may engage in any regulated land-
disturbing activity until he or she has submitted to the Northampton County
Department of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement an erosion and sediment
control plan for the regulated land-disturbing activity and such plan has been
approved by the VESCP authority. No approval to begin a land disturbing
activity will be issued unless evidence of VPDES permit coverage is obtained
where it is required. Where the land-disturbing activity results from the
construction of a: (1) single-family detached residential structure; or (2)
farm building or structure on a parcel of land with a total impervious cover
percentage, including the impervious cover from the farm building or structure
to be constructed, of less than 5%, an agreement in lieu of a plan may be
substituted for an erosion and sediment control plan if executed by the VESCP
plan-approving authority.
   (B)   The standards contained within the "Virginia Erosion and Stormwater
Management Regulation (9VAC25-875)" and the Virginia Stormwater Management
Handbook, as amended, are to be used by the applicant when making a submittal
under the provisions of this chapter and in the preparation of an erosion and
sediment control plan. The VESCP plan-approving authority, in considering the
adequacy of a submitted plan, shall be guided by the same standards,
regulations and guidelines. When the standards vary between the publications,
the Virginia Erosion and Stormwater Management Regulation shall take
precedence.
   (C)   The VESCP plan-approving authority shall review erosion and sediment
control plans submitted to it and grant written approval within 60 days of the
receipt of the plan if it determines that the plan meets the requirements of
the Erosion and Sediment Control Law for Localities not Administering a
Virginia Erosion and Stormwater Management Program and 9VAC25-875, and if the
person responsible for carrying out the plan certifies that he or she will
properly perform the erosion and sediment control measures included in the plan
and will comply with the provisions of this chapter. In addition, as a
prerequisite to engaging in the land-disturbing activities shown on the
approved plan, the person responsible for carrying out the plan shall provide
the name of the responsible land disturber to the VESCP authority, as required
by 9VAC25-875-300 and 9VAC25-875-550, who will be in charge of and responsible
for carrying out the land-disturbing activity. Failure to provide the name of
the responsible land disturber prior to engaging in land-disturbing activities
may result in revocation of the approval of the plan and the person responsible
for carrying out the plan shall be subject to the penalties provided in this
chapter. However, the VESCP plan-approving authority may waive the responsible
land disturber certificate requirement for an agreement in lieu of a plan for
construction of a single-family detached residential structure. If a violation
occurs during the land-disturbing activity associated with the construction of
the single-family detached residential structure, then the person responsible
for carrying out the agreement in lieu of a plan shall correct the violation
and provide the name of the responsible land disturber to the VESCP authority.
Failure to provide the name of the responsible land disturber shall be a
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   When the plan is determined to be inadequate, written notice of
disapproval stating the specific reasons for disapproval shall be communicated
to the applicant within 45 days. The notice shall specify such modifications,
terms and conditions that will permit approval of the plan. If no action is
taken within 45 days, the plan shall be deemed approved and the person
authorized to proceed with the proposed activity.
   (E)   The VESCP authority shall act on any erosion and sediment control plan
that has been previously disapproved within 45 days after the plan has been
revised, resubmitted for approval, and deemed adequate.
   (F)   The VESCP authority may require changes to an approved plan when:
      (1)   The inspection reveals that the plan is inadequate to satisfy
applicable regulations; or
      (2)   The person responsible for carrying out the plan finds that because
of changed circumstances or for other reasons the approved plan cannot be
effectively carried out, and proposed amendments to the plan, consistent with
the requirements of this chapter, are agreed to by the VESCP plan-approving
authority and the person responsible for carrying out the plans.
   (G)   Variances. The VESCP plan-approving authority may waive or modify any
of the standards that are deemed to be inappropriate or too restrictive for
site conditions by granting a variance. A variance may be granted under these
conditions:
      (1)   At the time of plan submission, an applicant may request a variance
to become part of the approved erosion and sediment control plan. The applicant
shall explain the reasons for requesting variances in writing. Specific
variances which are allowed by the VESCP plan-approving authority shall be
documented in the plan.
      (2)   During construction, the person responsible for implementing the
approved plan may request a variance in writing from the VESCP plan-approving
authority. The VESCP plan-approving authority shall respond in writing either
approving or disapproving such a request. If the VESCP plan-approving authority
does not approve a variance within ten days of receipt of the request, the
request shall be considered to be disapproved. Following disapproval, the
applicant may resubmit a variance request with additional documentation.
      (3)   The VESCP authority shall consider variance requests judiciously,
keeping in mind both the need of the applicant to maximize cost effectiveness
and the need to protect off-site properties and resources from damage.
   (H)   In order to prevent further erosion, Northampton County may require
approval of a plan for any land identified in the local program as an erosion
impact area.
   (I)   When a land-disturbing activity will be required of a contractor
performing construction work pursuant to a construction contract, the
preparation, submission, and approval of an erosion and sediment control plan
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (J)   As an alternative to submitting soil erosion control and stormwater
management plans pursuant to VA Code § 62.1-44.15:34 to the VESCP authority,
any person engaging in more than one jurisdiction in the creation and operation
of a wetland mitigation or stream restoration bank that has been approved and
is operated in accordance with applicable federal and state guidance, laws, or
regulations for the establishment, use, and operation of: (1) a wetlands
mitigation or stream restoration bank, pursuant to a mitigation banking
instrument signed by the Department, the Marine Resources Commission, or the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; or (2) a stream restoration project for purposes
of reducing nutrients or sediment entering state waters may submit standards
and specifications for Department approval that describe how land-disturbing
activities shall be conducted.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.07 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN; CONTENTS OF PLANS.
   (A)   An erosion and sediment control plan shall be filed for a development
and the buildings constructed within, regardless of the phasing of
construction. The erosion and sediment control plan shall be consistent with
the criteria, techniques, and methods in 9VAC25-875-560. The erosion and
sediment control plan shall contain all major conservation decisions to ensure
that the entire unit or units of land will be so treated to achieve the
conservation objectives in 9VAC25-875-560. The erosion and sediment control
plan may include:
      (1)   Appropriate maps;
      (2)   An appropriate soil and water plan inventory and management
information with needed interpretations; and
      (3)   A record of decisions contributing to conservation treatment.
   (B)   The person responsible for carrying out the plan shall provide the
name of an individual holding a certificate who will be in charge of and
responsible for carrying out the land- disturbing activity to the VESMP
authority. [Note: The VESMP authority may waive the responsible land disturber
certificate requirement for an agreement in lieu of a plan in accordance with
VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:34 or 62.1-44.15:55.]
   (C)   If individual lots or sections in a residential development are being
developed by different property owners, all land-disturbing activities related
to the building construction shall be covered by an erosion and sediment
control plan.
   (D)   Land-disturbing activity of less than 10,000 square feet on individual
lots in a residential development shall not be considered exempt from the
provisions of the VESMA, ESCL, or this chapter if the total land-disturbing
activity in the development is equal to or greater than 10,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.08 PERMITS; FEES; SECURITY FOR PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Agencies authorized under any other law to issue grading, building, or
other permits for activities involving land-disturbing activities shall not
issue any such permit unless the applicant submits with his or her application
an approved erosion and sediment control plan, certification that the plan will
be followed and evidence of VPDES permit coverage where it is required.
   (B)   No person may engage in any land-disturbing activity until he or she
has acquired a land-disturbing permit (unless the proposed land-disturbing
activity is specifically exempt from the provisions of this chapter), has paid
the fees and has posted the required bond.
   (C)   An administrative fee per the fee schedule shall be paid to
Northampton County at the time of submission of the erosion and sediment
control plan.
   (D)   No land-disturbing permit shall be issued until the applicant submits
with his or her application an approved erosion and sediment control plan or
agreement in lieu of an approved erosion and sediment control plan and
certification that the plan will be followed.
   (E)   (1)   All applicants for permits shall provide to Northampton County a
performance bond with surety, cash escrow, or an irrevocable letter of credit
acceptable to the Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement, to ensure
that measures could be taken by Northampton County at the applicant's expense
should the applicant fail, after proper notice, within the time specified to
initiate or maintain appropriate conservation measures required of him or her
by the approved plan as a result of his or her land-disturbing activity.
      (2)   The amount of the bond or other security for performance shall not
exceed the total of the estimated cost to initiate and maintain appropriate
conservation action based on unit price for new public or private sector
construction in the locality and a reasonable allowance for estimated
administrative costs and inflation, which shall not exceed 25% of the cost of
the conservation action. Should it be necessary for Northampton County to take
such conservation action, Northampton County may collect from the applicant any
costs in excess of the amount of the surety held. Within 60 days of adequate
stabilization, as determined by the Director of Planning, Permitting and
Enforcement, in any project or section of a project, such bond, cash escrow or
letter of credit, or the unexpended or unobligated portion thereof, shall be
either refunded to the applicant or terminated based upon the percentage of
stabilization accomplished in the project or project section. These
requirements are in addition to all other provisions relating to the issuance
of permits and are not intended to otherwise affect the requirements for such
permits.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.09 MONITORING, REPORTS, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The responsible land disturber, as provided by VA Code § 62.1-44.15:
52, shall be in charge of and responsible for carrying out the land-disturbing
activity and provide for periodic inspections of the land-disturbing activity.
The person responsible for carrying out the plan shall monitor the land-
disturbing activity. The person responsible for carrying out the plan will
maintain records of these inspections and maintenance, to ensure compliance
with the approved plan and to determine whether the measures required in the
plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation.
   (B)   (1)   The Northampton County Department of Planning, Permitting and
Enforcement shall periodically inspect the land-disturbing activity in
accordance with 9VAC25-875-330 to ensure compliance with the approved plan and
to determine whether the measures required in the plan are effective in
controlling erosion and sedimentation. The owner, permittee, or person
responsible for carrying out the plan shall be given notice of the inspection
and shall allow such inspection in accordance with VA Code § 62.1-44.15:60 and
the land-disturbing permit.
      (2)   If the Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement determines
that there is a failure to comply with the plan, notice to comply may be served
upon the permittee or person responsible for carrying out the plan. Such notice
shall be served by delivery by facsimile, e-mail, or other technology; by
mailing with confirmation of delivery to the address specified in the permit
application or in the plan certification, if available, or in the land records
of the locality; or by delivery at the site of the land-disturbing activities
to the agent or employee supervising such activities.
      (3)   The notice to comply shall specify the measures needed to comply
with the land-disturbance approval conditions or shall identify the plan
approval or land-disturbance approval needed to comply with this chapter and
shall specify a reasonable time within which such measures shall be completed.
Upon failure to comply within the specified time, any plan approval or land-
disturbance approval may be revoked and the permittee or person responsible for
carrying out the plan shall be subject to the penalties provided by this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Upon issuance of an inspection report denoting a violation of VA
Code § 62.1-44.15:55, the Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement may,
in conjunction with or subsequent to a notice to comply as specified in this
chapter, issue an order requiring that all or part of the land-disturbing
activities permitted on the site be stopped until the specified corrective
measures have been taken.
      (2)   If land-disturbing activities have commenced without an approved
plan, the Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement may issue an order
requiring that all of the land-disturbing activities be stopped until an
approved plan or any required permits are obtained.
      (3)   Where the alleged noncompliance is causing or is in imminent danger
of causing harmful erosion of lands or sediment deposition in waters within the
watersheds of the Commonwealth, or where the land-disturbing activities have
commenced without an approved plan, such a stop work order may be issued
without regard to whether the alleged violator has been issued a notice to
comply as specified in this chapter. Otherwise, such an order may be issued
only after the alleged violator has failed to comply with such a notice to
comply.
      (4)   The stop work order shall be served in the same manner as a notice
to comply, and shall remain in effect for a period of seven days from the date
of service, pending application by Northampton County or permit holder for
appropriate relief to the Circuit Court of Northampton County. Northampton
County shall serve such order for disturbance without an approved plan upon the
owner by mailing with confirmation of delivery to the address specified in the
land records. The order shall be posted on the site where the disturbance is
occurring, and shall remain in effect until permits and plan approvals are
secured, except in such situations where an agricultural exemption applies.
      (5)   If the alleged violator has not obtained an approved plan within
seven days from the date of service of the stop work order, the Director of
Planning, Permitting and Enforcement may issue an order to the owner requiring
that all construction and other work on the site, other than corrective
measures, be stopped until an approved plan has been obtained. Such an order
shall be served upon the owner by mailing with confirmation of delivery to the
address specified in the plan or the land records of Northampton County.
      (6)   The owner may appeal the issuance of an order to the Circuit Court
of Northampton County.
      (7)   Any person violating or failing, neglecting or refusing to obey an
order issued by Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement may be
compelled in a proceeding instituted in the Circuit Court of Northampton County
to obey same and to comply therewith by injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate remedy.
      (8)   Upon completion and approval of corrective action or obtaining an
approved plan, the order shall immediately be lifted.
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Director of Planning,
Permitting and Enforcement from taking any other action authorized by this
chapter or other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.10 PENALTIES, INJUNCTIONS, AND OTHER LEGAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who has violated or failed, neglected, or refused to obey
any order, notice, or requirement of Northampton County, any condition of a
land-disturbance approval, or any provision of this chapter shall, upon a
finding of the District Court of Northampton County, be assessed a civil
penalty. The civil penalty for any one violation shall be not less than $100
nor more than $1,000, except that the civil penalty for commencement of land-
disturbing activities without an approved plan shall be $1,000. Each day during
which the violation is found to have existed shall constitute a separate
offense. In no event shall a series of specified violations arising from the
same operative set of facts result in civil penalties which exceed a total of
$10,000, except that a series of violations arising from the commencement of
land-disturbing activities without an approved plan for any site shall not
result in civil penalties which exceed a total of $10,000.
   (B)   (1)   The Director of Planning, Permitting and Enforcement, or the
owner or property which has sustained damage, or which is in imminent danger of
being damaged, may apply to the Circuit Court of Northampton County to enjoin a
violation or a threatened violation of VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:55 or 62.1-44.15:
58, without the necessity of showing that an adequate remedy at law does not
exist.
      (2)   However, an owner of property shall not apply for injunctive relief
unless: (1) he has notified in writing the person who has violated the local
program, and the program authority, that a violation of the local program has
caused, or creates a probability of causing, damage to his property; and (2)
neither the person who has violated the local program nor the program authority
has taken corrective action within 15 days to eliminate the conditions which
have caused, or create the probability of causing, damage to his or her
property.
   (C)   In addition to any criminal or civil penalties provided under this
chapter, any person who violates any provision of the Erosion and Sediment
Control Law may be liable to Northampton County in a civil action for damages.
   (D)   (1)   Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained in this
section, any person violating or failing, neglecting, or refusing to obey any
injunction, mandamus or other remedy obtained pursuant to this section shall be
subject, in the discretion of the court, to a civil penalty not to exceed
$2,000 for each violation. A civil action for such violation or failure may be
brought by Northampton County.
      (2)   Any civil penalties assessed by a court shall be paid into the
treasury of Northampton County, except that where the violator is the locality
itself, or its agent, the court shall direct the penalty to be paid into the
state treasury.
   (E)   With the consent of any person who has violated or failed, neglected
or refused to obey any regulation or condition of a permit or any provision of
this chapter, or order of the VESCP authority, Northampton County may provide
for the payment of civil charges for violations in specific sums, not to exceed
the limit specified in division (D) above. Such civil charges shall be instead
of any appropriate civil penalty which could be imposed under division (A) or
(D) above.
   (F)   The Commonwealth's Attorney shall, upon request of Northampton County,
take legal action to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 153.11 APPEALS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Final decisions of Northampton County under this chapter shall be subject to
review by Northampton County Circuit Court, provided an appeal is filed within
30 days from the date of any written decision adversely affecting the rights,
duties, or privileges of the person engaging in or proposing to engage in land-
disturbing activities.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 154.1: ZONING CODE
Editor’s note: Chapter 154.1, Zoning Code (Ord. passed December 8, 2015), was
replaced by Chapter 154.2, Zoning Code (Ord. passed April 12, 2016).
CHAPTER 154.2: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.2.001   Authority
   
154.2.002   Intent and purpose
   
154.2.003   Definitions
   
154.2.004   General conditions
Zoning Administrative Structure Established
   
154.2.020   Zoning Administrator
   
154.2.021   Site plan review agent established
   
154.2.022   Board of Zoning Appeals authorized
   
154.2.023   Historic protection review
   
154.2.024   Filing fees
   
154.2.025   Enforcement of regulations
   
154.2.026   Appeals
Permits and Procedures
   
154.2.040   Zoning clearance
   
154.2.041   Certificate of Occupancy
   
154.2.042   Special use permit
   
154.2.043   Amendments
   
154.2.044   Proffering conditions to zoning district regulations
   
154.2.045   Site plans
General Regulations for All Zoning Districts
   
154.2.060   General application of district regulations
   
154.2.061   Measurement of certain dimensions
   
154.2.062   Lot requirements
   
154.2.063   Temporary buildings
   
154.2.064   Accessory uses
   
154.2.065   Parking and loading
   
154.2.066   Traffic visibility
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
154.2.080   Zoning Ordinance text and maps are unified document
   
154.2.081   Zoning districts created
   
154.2.082   Statements of intent for primary and secondary zoning districts
   
154.2.083   Statements of intent for overlay zoning districts
   
154.2.084   Statements of intent for floating zone districts
   
154.2.085   Zoning map
Supplemental Performance Standards
   
154.2.100   Generally
   
154.2.101   Standards for Chesapeake/ Atlantic Preservation Area
   
154.2.102   Standards for marina siting
   
154.2.103   Standards for development in the agricultural districts
   
154.2.104   Standards for open space preservation
   
154.2.105   Landscape plan requirements and standards
   
154.2.106   Commercial and industrial road frontage standards
   
154.2.107   Airport performance standards
   
154.2.108   Affordable housing incentives and standards
   
154.2.109   Wireless communications facilities standards
   
154.2.110   Domestic husbandry, traditional husbandry and intensive farming
uses, facilities, structures and buildings
   
154.2.111   Agricultural irrigation ponds
   
154.2.112   General lighting standards
   
154.2.113   Standards for wind turbines and windmills for on-site residential
or commercial production and use
   
154.2.114   Meteorological tower regulations and performance standards
   
154.2.115   Standards for wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities,
and wind turbines, large and utility-scale
   
154.2.116   Standards for certain agricultural uses
   
154.2.117   Accessory dwellings
   
154.2.118   Additional single-family dwellings on one lot
   
154.2.119   Event venue
   
154.2.120   Short term rental
   
154.2.121   Recycling yard
Uses, Densities and Dimensions
   
154.2.125   Purpose and structure
   
154.2.126   General regulations for residential uses
   
154.2.127   Low impact commercial uses
   
154.2.128   Use categories
Supplemental Regulations
   
154.2.140   Purpose
   
154.2.141   General modifications to yard regulations
   
154.2.142   Front setback/yard regulations
   
154.2.143   Side yard regulations
   
154.2.144   Rear yard regulations
   
154.2.145   Height and bulk regulations
   
154.2.146   Accessory buildings and fences
   
154.2.147   Permitted lot frontage
Overlay Districts
   
154.2.160   Districts established
   
154.2.161   Historic preservation district (HP)
   
154.2.162   Airport protection district (AP)
   
154.2.163   Chesapeake/Atlantic preservation areas (CAP)
   
154.2.164   US 13 Corridor district (US13C)
Floating Zone Districts
   
154.2.175   Floating districts
   
154.2.176   Mobile Home Park (MHP)
   
154.2.177   Bayview Planned Unit Development District
   
154.2.178   Solar Energy District (SED)
Signs
   
154.2.190   Permits required for signs
   
154.2.191   Permit not required
   
154.2.192   General sign restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to all signs
   
154.2.193   Standards for signs for which permits are required
   
154.2.194   Computation of sign area
   
154.2.195   Sign illumination and signs containing lights
   
154.2.196   Maintenance or removal of signs
   
154.2.197   Nonconforming signs
   
154.2.198   Removal or abandonment of signs
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.2.205   Intent
   
154.2.206   Space on same lot and adjacent lots
   
154.2.207   Cooperative parking
   
154.2.208   Safe and convenient access required
   
154.2.209   Parking area design
   
154.2.210   General requirements
   
154.2.211   Site requirements
   
154.2.212   Off-street loading
   
154.2.213   Minimum impervious parking spaces required for permitted uses
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.2.225   Composition of Board
   
154.2.226   Application for variance
   
154.2.227   Procedures
   
154.2.228   Powers and duties
   
154.2.229   Appeals to Board
   
154.2.230   Appeals from Board
Nonconforming Uses and Vested Rights Policy
   
154.2.245   Intent
   
154.2.246   Nonconforming uses, lots or buildings
   
154.2.247   Nonconformity in general
   
154.2.248   Repairs and maintenance
   
154.2.249   Provisions for special uses
   
154.2.250   Vested rights policy
   
154.2.998   Violations
   
154.2.999   Penalty
Appendices
   
Appendix A:   Use Regulations
   
Appendix B:   Densities, Lot Sizes and Dimensions
   
Appendix C:   Measuring Standard Setbacks and Resource Protection Area
   
Appendix D:   2000 Zoning Ordinance
   
Appendix E:   1983 Zoning Ordinance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.2.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter, to be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of Northampton County,
Virginia, is ordained, enacted and published by the Board of Supervisors of
Northampton County, Virginia, pursuant to the provisions of VA Code Title 15.2,
Chapter 22, Article VII, as amended.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Intent. This chapter is intended to encourage the improvement of
public health, safety, convenience and general welfare of citizens and to plan
for future development of communities. It seeks to implement the goals,
objectives and policies set forth in the Comprehensive Plan of Northampton
County adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County and as set
forth in the Code of Virginia, including but not limited to VA Code §§ 15.2-
2200, 15.2-2283, 15.2-2284, and 15.2-2223.
   (B)   Purposes. The regulations that follow are part of the county's
comprehensive program to guide and facilitate the orderly and economical growth
of the community and to promote the public health, safety, convenience,
comfort, prosperity and general welfare. More specifically, the purpose of
these regulations is to:
      (1)    Provide for adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety
from fire, flood, impounding structure failure, crime, and other dangers;
      (2)   Reduce or prevent congestion in the public streets;
      (3)   Facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive and harmonious
community;
      (4)   Assure that residential areas be provided with healthy surroundings
for family life;
      (5)   Facilitate the provision of adequate police and fire protection,
medical services, disaster evacuation, civil defense, transportation, water,
sewerage, flood protection, schools, parks, forests, playgrounds, recreational
facilities, airports and other public requirements;
      (6)    Protect against destruction of or encroachment upon historic areas
and working waterfront development areas;
      (7)   Protect against the following: overcrowding of land, undue density
of population in relation to the community facilities or natural resources
existing or available, including soil and groundwater supply, obstruction of
light and air, danger and congestion in travel and transportation, or loss of
life, health or property from fire, flood, panic or other dangers;
      (8)   Assure the growth of the community be consonant with the efficient
and economical use of public funds;
      (9)   Encourage economic development activities that provide desirable
employment and enlarge the tax base;
      (10)   Provide for the preservation of agricultural and forestal lands
and other lands of significance for the protection of the natural environment,
by measures including, but not limited to, the following: reducing and
preventing sedimentation and soil erosion that may harm citizens or the natural
environment; protecting the marine environment for the preservation of the
waters of the Chesapeake Bay, the Atlantic Ocean, and the seafood industry;
providing for the orderly development of the county in order to conserve
valuable natural resources including farmland, forests, dunes, wetlands, waters
and wildlife; and allowing for the safe and unobtrusive excavation or mining of
soil or other natural resources;
      (11)   Protect surface water and ground water by means consistent with
applicable state water quality standards;
       (12)   Promote the creation and preservation of affordable housing
suitable for meeting the current and future needs of the planning district
within which the locality is situated;
      (13)   Protect approach slopes and other safety areas of licensed
airports and landing areas, including United States government and military air
facilities.
      (14)   To provide reasonable modifications in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.§§ 12131 et seq.) or state
and federal fair housing laws, as applicable. Such chapter may also include
reasonable provisions not inconsistent with applicable state water quality
standards, to protect surface water and ground water as defined in VA Code §
62.1-255.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 154.2.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General usage. Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be
measured horizontally and at right angles to the line in relation to which the
distance is specified. In this chapter, words used in the present tense include
the future tense; words in the singular number include the plural number and
words in the plural number include the singular number; unless the obvious
construction of the wording indicates otherwise. Certain frequently used words
and terms are herein defined as follows:
      (1)   The word MAY is permissive;
      (2)   The word SHALL is mandatory;
      (3)   The word BUILDING includes STRUCTURES;
      (4)   The word LOT includes a PLOT and/or PARCEL;
      (5)   The word USED shall be deemed also to include DESIGNED, ERECTED,
RECONSTRUCTED, ALTERED, PLACED or MOVED. (See also definition of USE in
division (C) below);
      (6)   The terms LAND USE and USE OF LAND shall be deemed also to include
BUILDING USE and USE OF A BUILDING;
      (7)   The word STATE means the Commonwealth of Virginia;
      (8)   The word TOWN means the incorporated towns of Northampton County
Commonwealth of Virginia, and the term TOWN BOUNDARY means any exterior
boundary of an incorporated town;
      (9)   The word COUNTY means the County of Northampton, Commonwealth of
Virginia, and the term COUNTY BOUNDARY means any exterior boundary of the
county or any boundary of unincorporated territory within the county; the word
BOARD means the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County;
      (10)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation, partnership and bodies politic and
corporate as well as an individual;
      (11)   The terms BOARD OF APPEALS or BZA shall mean the Board of Zoning
Appeals of Northampton County, Virginia and/or the incorporated town(s);
      (12)   The words PLANNING COMMISSION shall mean the Planning Commission
of Northampton County, Virginia, and/or the incorporated town(s);
      (13)   The words TOWN COUNCIL shall mean the governing body of the
incorporated town(s) within Northampton County;
      (14)   The word ADJACENT means abutting, touching or contiguous to;
      (15)   The terms CODE OF VIRGINIA and VA CODE shall mean the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended;
      (16)   The terms THIS CHAPTER and THIS ORDINANCE mean the Northampton
County Zoning Ordinance;
      (17)   The term CIRCUIT COURT means the Circuit Court of Northampton
County, Virginia;
      (18)   The term 2009 COMPREHENSIVE AMENDMENTS means the comprehensive
text and map amendments to this chapter adopted on October 20, 2009. The
effective date of the October 21, 2009 Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance
Amendments shall be 12:01 a.m. on the calendar day following their adoption;
      (19)   The term ADOPTION DATE means that date that this chapter, or a
specific amendment thereto, was adopted by the Board of Supervisors. The term
EFFECTIVE DATE means that date that the chapter, or a specific amendment
thereto, became effective and in force. If an adopted amendment does not
specifically state an effective date, it shall become effective at 12:01 a.m.
on the next calendar day following adoption.
   (B)   Interpretation by Zoning Administrator. In case of any dispute over
the meaning of a word, phrase or sentence, whether defined herein or not, the
Zoning Administrator is authorized to make a definite determination thereof,
being guided in such determination by the purposes and intent of this chapter
as set forth in §
154.2.002; provided, however, that an appeal may be taken from any such
determination as provided in §§
154.2.225 et seq. In the absence of a specific definition, words shall be given
the generic meaning provided by the current edition of the Webster Collegiate
Dictionary.
   (C)   Specific definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS. A way or means of approach or admission.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING. An attached or detached dwelling used as a residence
that is subordinate to a single-family dwelling and is constructed in
conformity with the performance standards in §
154.2.117.
      ACCESSORY GOODS AND/OR SERVICES. Products, processes, or services related
to the retail sale of locally-produced goods and services, which would
reasonably and practicably add to the convenience, safety, or enjoyment of the
service or the use or consumption of the primary product, or would further
promote locally-produced goods and services, and which are clearly subordinate
to the primary product or service.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure which is:
         (a)   Clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with
the principal use and structure;
         (b)   Subordinate to and serves the principal use or structure;
         (c)    Located on the same lot or parcel as the principal use or
structure;
         (d)   Not, in case of accessory structures, attached by any common
wall or by a common roof to a principal structure;
         (e)   Not considered to pose a demonstrated environmental hazard or to
require a separate authorization or permit from a regulatory authority other
than the Health Department.
      ACREAGE. Any parcel of land described by metes and bounds on the county's
tax maps and not shown on a plat of a recorded subdivision legally admitted to
record.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of Northampton County and of
incorporated towns under the jurisdiction of this chapter and her/his designee.
See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
      ADULT DAY CARE. A facility equipped and staffed to provide daily
caretaking of adults unable to care for themselves, or those who cannot be left
alone, with no overnight accommodations.
      ADVERSE IMPACT. An impact that creates, imposes, aggravates, or leads to
inadequate, impractical, unsafe, or unhealthy conditions on a site or degrades
or damages environmental, cultural, or other resources on a site proposed for
development or on off-site property or facilities.
      AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Housing, either rental or owned which is accessible
to any or all of the HUD-defined income categories up to and including "middle
income," based on the "area median income," such that the occupant pays not
more than 30% of his/her gross income for gross housing costs, including
utilities, consistent with VA Code § 15.2-2201.
      AGRICULTURE - DOMESTIC HUSBANDRY. Agricultural uses, structures and
buildings that meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Shall comply with §
154.2.110 Domestic Husbandry, Traditional Husbandry and Intensive Farming Uses,
Facilities, Structures and Buildings;
         (b)   Shall be directly associated with the production and sale of
farm animals or livestock kept for the majority of their lives unconfined
within the property boundaries;
         (c)   Shall be fully for home consumption or hobby;
         (d)   May include riding / boarding and equine training activities;
and
         (e)   Shall not include uses, structures and building defined as
agricultural - traditional husbandry; but may include smaller confined animal
feeding operation, confined poultry operation or concentrated confined animal
feeding operation regulated by the VA Code which are not required to obtain an
individual Virginia Pollution Abatement (VPA) Permit or an individual Virginia
Pollutant Discharge Elimination (VPDES) Permit and have met the above criteria.
      AGRICULTURE - INTENSIVE FARMING. Agricultural uses, structures and
buildings that meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Shall comply with §
154.2.110 Domestic Husbandry, Traditional Husbandry and Intensive Farming Uses,
Facilities, Structures and Buildings; and
         (b)    Shall be directly associated with the production of farm
animals or livestock which are regulated by the VA Code as an animal feeding
operation, confined animal feeding operation, confined poultry operation or
concentrated confined animal feeding operation; except those meeting the
definition for agricultural - domestic husbandry or agricultural - traditional
husbandry.
      AGRICULTURE - TRADITIONAL HUSBANDRY. Agricultural uses, structures and
buildings that meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Shall comply with §
154.2.110 Domestic Husbandry, Traditional Husbandry and Intensive Farming Uses,
Facilities, Structures and Buildings;
         (b)   Shall be directly associated with the production and sale of
farm animals or livestock kept for the majority of their lives unconfined
within the property boundaries;
         (c)   May be fully for home consumption or a part of a person's
profession, livelihood or business; and
         (d)   Shall not include uses, structures and building defined as
agricultural - domestic husbandry; but may include smaller confined animal
feeding operation, confined poultry operation or concentrated confined animal
feeding operation regulated by the VA Code which are not required to obtain an
individual Virginia Pollution Abatement (VPA) Permit or an individual Virginia
Pollutant Discharge Elimination (VPDES) Permit and have met the above criteria.
      AGRICULTURAL LANDS. Those lands used for the planting and harvesting of
crops or plant growth of any kind in the open, pasture, horticulture, dairying,
floriculture, silviculture, viticulture, or raising of poultry and/or
livestock.
      AGRICULTURAL OPERATION. Any operation devoted to the bona fide production
of crops, or animals, or fowl including the production of fruits and vegetables
of all kinds; meat, dairy, and poultry products; nuts, tobacco, nursery, and
floral products; and the production and harvest of products from silviculture
activity and aquaculture.
      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Any livestock, aquaculture, poultry,
horticultural, floricultural, viticulture, silvicultural, or other farm crops.
      AGRICULTURAL-RELATED PRODUCTS. Hand crafted agricultural theme items sold
in conjunction with agricultural products and value added agricultural products
at a farm market hand crafted by the owners or operators of the agricultural
operation. Additional items may be displayed or sold as long as the display of
these additional items does not exceed 10% of the floor area of the farm
market.
      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE. Fruits and vegetables.
      AGRITOURISM ACTIVITY. Any activity carried out and compliant with §
154.2.116(A) Standards for certain Agricultural Uses of the NCC on a farm or
ranch that allows members of the general public, for recreational,
entertainment, or educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities,
including farming, wineries, ranching, horseback riding, historical, cultural,
harvest-your-own activities, or natural activities and attractions. An activity
is an agritourism activity whether or not the participant paid to participate
in the activity. An agritourism activity shall not be deemed an agritourism
activity solely by the reason of its taking place on a farm or ranch.
      AGRITOURISM PROFESSIONAL. Any person, including the land owner, who is
engaged in the business of providing one or more agritourism activities,
whether or not for compensation.
      AIRPORT. (Includes airfields, flight strips, heliports or glide ports). A
place where aircraft may take off or land, discharge or receive cargoes and/or
passengers. May be public or private and may or may not be licensed by the
Virginia Department of Aviation. Does not include private airstrips.
      AIRSTRIP, PNU (Private Normal Use). Any pervious surface used for
aircraft with a certified MGTOW under 3,500 pounds only between one hour before
sunrise and one hour after sunset and with a frequency of not more than ten
takeoffs and landings per day. The minimum takeoff distance plus clearway to
fly over a 50-foot obstacle on a property used for this purpose must be at
least 1,000 feet long and be located no closer than 300 feet to a property
line. Compliance with FAR 91.117, Minimum Safe Altitudes, is essential.
Agricultural aircraft engaged in crop spraying operations are limited to 16,000
pounds MGTOW. Agricultural aircraft engaged in oil-spill cleanup are exempted
from the weight, frequency, and permit limits.
      AIRSTRIP, POU (Private Occasional Use). Any pervious surface used for
aircraft with a certified MGTOW under 3,500 pounds only between one hour before
sunrise and one hour after sunset with a frequency of not more than five
takeoffs and landings per day. Compliance with FAR 91.117, Minimum Safe
Altitudes, is essential.
      ALL-TERRAIN-VEHICLE (ATV) TRAILS. Marked, maintained, and supervised
unpaved tracks or trails for mechanized ATVs and dirt bikes, with no ingress/
egress to public or private roads, rights-of-way, or bicycle/hiking/walking
trails; such ingress/ egress shall be blocked by the trail operator. To
mitigate such factors as noise, traffic, and dust, use of such trail facilities
are only permitted by special use permit, and conditions may be imposed
including, but not limited to, the following: setbacks, periodic noise-level
studies, hours of operation, number of simultaneous users, vegetative buffers,
fencing and restricting ingress/egress to a single owner-controlled entrance.
      ALTERATION. Change, such as any change in the total floor area, use or
design of an existing structure.
      ALTERNATIVE SEWAGE SYSTEM or ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM. A wastewater treatment
system that is not a conventional septic system consisting of a septic tank and
drainfield and does not result in a point source discharge of effluent. Such
systems must be approved by the Virginia Department of Health.
      AMEND or AMENDMENT. Any repeal, modification or addition to a regulation;
any new regulation; any change in number, shape, boundary or area of a
district; or any repeal or abolition of any map, part thereof, or addition
thereto.
      AMUSEMENT PARK. An outdoor commercial recreational area of a permanent
nature offering amusements, diversions and entertainments, whether operated
seasonally or continually.
      APARTMENT or APARTMENT HOUSE. An arrangement of three or more attached
dwelling units within a structure, each intended for occupation by a separate
family. This arrangement can be side by side, in a row, up and down, or any
combination thereof. A single apartment may be within or attached to a
structure serving another non-residential use as an accessory attached dwelling
unit.
      AQUACULTURE. The propagation, rearing, enhancement, and/or harvest of
aquatic organisms, including but not limited to fish and shellfish, in
controlled or selected environments, conducted in marine, estuarine, brackish,
or fresh water.
      AQUACULTURE FACILITY. Any land, structure, or other appurtenance that is
used for aquaculture, including any laboratory, hatchery, pond, raceway, pen,
cage, incubator, or other equipment used in aquaculture.
      AQUACULTURE PRODUCTS. Any fish or shellfish harvested from aquaculture
facilities.
      ARCHITECT. A person who is licensed by the state and who is registered
with the Virginia Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation (DPOR)
as a "licensed architect."
      ART GALLERY. A showroom/sales facility for two-dimensional and three-
dimensional original and limited production art/artisan work, including video
and audio technology. Sales are not limited to owner's original work.
      ARTISAN. A skilled craftsman in the traditional media of clay, wood,
metal, fiber, glass, stone, leather, or paper.
      ARTISAN STUDIO. An owner-operated workshop facility for creating products
by hand, or with appropriate tools, in various media: wood, metal, paper,
glass, leather, stone, ceramics, fiber, and mixed-media. May include sales/
showroom for the artisan's own work and may also include facilities for private
instruction. Such a facility may have some outdoor production but no outdoor
storage.
      ARTIST. One who is skilled, or works in, any of the fine arts (i.e.,
drawing, painting, and sculpture).
      ARTIST STUDIO. An owner-operated workshop facility for creating two- and
three-dimensional artwork, mixed-media artwork, and sculpture, by hand or with
appropriate tools. May include sales/showroom area for the artist's own work,
both original and reproduction, and may also include facilities for private
instruction. Such a facility may have some outdoor production but no outdoor
storage.
      ASPECT. The outward appearance of the combined visual features of the
community; visual attributes which contribute to the character of the area or
entity.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A congregate residential setting that provides
or coordinates personal and health care services, 24-hour supervision, and
assistance (scheduled and/or unscheduled) for the maintenance and care of four
or more adults who are aged, infirm, or disabled and who are cared for in a
primarily residential setting in accordance with VA Code § 63.2-100.
      ATHLETIC FIELD. A maintained field which may include restroom facilities
and locker room facilities intended for scheduled sports events and other field
activities.
      ATTACHED. Connected or, in the case of dwelling units, units that share a
common wall(s).
      BANNER. A temporary sign of flexible material designed to be installed
with attachments at each of four corners.
      BARBER SHOP. A hair-cutting establishment which does not offer chemical
treatments or processes.
      BASEMENT. The lowest story or level of a building having part but not
less than one-half of its height below grade.
      BASE PARCEL(S). Those lawful parcels and their property lines existing in
the public records of the county on October 21, 2009. However, if a parcel was
legally in existence and zoned Agricultural on December 28, 2000, and if prior
to October 21, 2009 that parcel was subdivided to allow the maximum number of
bonus lots allowed under the zoning ordinance in effect at that time, the base
parcel under the December 28, 2000, zoning ordinance shall be the base parcel
for determining the development density of that parcel.
      BATTING CAGE. A screened facility for baseball/softball batting practice.
      BEACH. The shoreline zone composed of unconsolidated sandy material upon
which there is mutual interaction of the forces of erosion, sediment transport
and deposition that extends from the low water line landward to where there is
a marked change in either material composition or physiographic form such as a
dune, bluff, or marsh, or where no such change can be identified, to the line
of woody vegetation (usually the effective limit of storm waves), or the
nearest impermeable manmade structure, such as a bulkhead, revetment, or paved
road. For the purposes of this chapter, BEACH is also included by reference in
the definition of COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE, consistent with VA Code § 28.2-
1400.
      BEAUTY SHOP. A facility for hair washing, cutting, dressing and/or other
processes which may include the use of chemical treatments and which often
requires high water usage. May require licensing and Health Department
approval.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A dwelling unit, other than a motel, hotel, rooming or
boarding house, or inn, occupied by the owner of the unit or a resident manager
where up to nine separate sleeping rooms are provided, for compensation, to
overnight transients and a morning meal is usually offered as part of the
lodging charge.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMP'S. A practice, or a combination of
practices, that is determined by a state or designated area-wide planning
agency to be the most effective, practical means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution generated by nonpoint sources to a level compatible with
water quality goals.
      BIO-DIESEL PRODUCTION. The conversion of soybeans or other vegetable
products into a non-petroleum-based fuel for diesel engines.
      BLADE THROW ZONE. Furthest distance from the tower base in which blades
or other debris could be thrown from the wind turbine in the event of
catastrophic failure.
      BLOCK. That property abutting one side of the street, and lying between
the nearest intersection or intercepting streets or the nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or
live stream, or between any of the foregoing in any barrier to the continuity
of development.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of Northampton County,
Virginia.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Northampton
County and any Board of Zoning Appeals of an incorporated town under the
jurisdiction of this chapter.
      BOAT BUILDING AND REPAIR, STRUCTURAL. The construction or repair of
hulls, rigging, and interiors of boats.
      BOAT HOUSE. A single-story structure limited to the storage of watercraft
and/or watercraft equipment and constructed over the water.
      BOAT LANDING. A structure designed to launch and recover watercraft and
including supporting facilities such as parking and storage.
      BOAT REPAIR, MECHANICAL. The repair of engines, motorized equipment, and
electronic apparatus on boats.
      BOAT SALES AND RENTALS. A land-based boat yard or marina-based boat basin
where boats are available for sale or rent.
      BORROW PIT. Any operation involving the breaking or disturbing of the
surface soil or rock where the primary purpose of the operation is to
facilitate or accomplish the extraction or removal of sand, soil, gravel, fill,
or other similar material. Asphalt is allowed to be stored on site if properly
separated so no intrusion from leakage can enter the water and if the site is
permitted by Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy (DMME) and
asphalt is included in the permit. No additional off site material shall be
brought to the site for any reason. Specifically exempt from this definition
are the following:
         (a)   Any excavation for roads, drainage, stormwater management
facilities, or similar features necessarily incidental to, and in accordance
with, the approved construction plans for a residential subdivision or other
similar development activity;
         (b)   Any excavation for the sole purpose of conducting a bona-fide
agricultural operation, including, but not limited to, excavations to improve
drainage, provide watering facilities for livestock, or create a holding lagoon
for animal waste, or farm ponds or fish ponds; provided that none of the
excavated material may be hauled off site or sold;
         (c)   Any excavation or excavations on any single lot or parcel of
land which total less than one-quarter acre in area and less than 12 feet in
excavated depth as measured from the original ground level to the lowest point
of the excavation;
         (d)   Any trench, ditch or hole for utility lines, drainage pipes or
other similar public works facilities or projects where the excavation is in
accordance with the approved construction plans;
         (e)   Any inert materials as defined in 4 VAC 25-31-10 that are
included in the Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy (DMME) permit
for the site.
      BUFFER AREA. An area of natural or established vegetation managed to
protect other components of a resource protection area and state waters from
significant degradation due to land disturbances.
      BUFFER (SCREENING). A device or vegetated growth, or a combination
thereof, designed or used as a barrier to vision or noise between adjoining
properties or land uses. A vegetated buffer may be opaque, intended to create a
strong impression of spatial separation and to preclude visual contact; or
semi-opaque, intended to maintain a sense of spatial separation and to
partially block visual contact.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a lot or parcel remaining after required
yards, open spaces, parking, loading and access areas have been provided. When
related to open space ratio, BUILDABLE AREA shall be the calculated upland
portion of a base parcel, excluding any wetlands or ponds.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy for persons, animals, or property of any kind.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING COVERAGE or LOT COVERAGE. All areas under roof or projection
from buildings on a lot or parcel.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average finished
grade at the building line to the top of the highest roof beam of a flat roof
or to the peak of pitched or hip roofs or a mansard roof.
      BUILDING, MAIN. The building, or one of the principal buildings, housing
the principal use on the lot or parcel.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. An appointed official of the county responsible for
enforcement of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code (VUSBC) as
described in VA Code § 36-105.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing or building materials, windows,
skylights, and awnings.
      BULK AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.  Harvested but unprocessed vegetables,
fruits, or grains.
      CAMP, DAY. A parcel of land devoted to outdoor/indoor recreation or
cultural activities, not including overnight accommodations for users.
      CAMP, OVERNIGHT. A parcel of land used or designed to be used for
overnight accommodations of individuals or groups and for use by such
individuals or groups for sports, handcrafts and other outdoor-oriented
activities and recreation.
      CAMPER. A trailer-type vehicle, not self-contained and not motorized;
intended for temporary, recreational shelter.
      CAMPGROUND. An outdoor facility which accommodates paying guests for a
stay of short duration in rustic cabins and shelters, tents, RVs,  campers, or
travel trailers owned by guests or facility. Parking, playgrounds, office,
recreational ponds and retail uses such as snack bars or general stores for use
by campground patrons shall be allowed as accessory uses.
      CAMPGROUND, RUSTIC. An outdoor facility, located on a parcel in
conjunction with a single-family residence, which accommodates paying guests
for a stay of short duration in tents, RVs, pods or travel trailers, which are
owned by the facility (facilities shall be limited to a maximum of six camping
units), with no amenities provided other than trash, bathing/shower, and
lavatory facilities; the on-site single-family residence shall be owned by the
property and facility owner and occupied by only the owner or operator of the
facility, and family thereof.
      CARNIVAL. A traveling or transportable group or aggregation of rides,
shows, games or concessions or any combination thereof.
      CARRY-OUT OR DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any place or premises used for sale,
dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments or beverages to customers in motor
vehicles, including those establishments where customers may serve themselves
and may eat or drink the food, refreshments or beverages in motor vehicles on
the premises. CARRY-OUT OR DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT also includes refreshment
stands, but not fast food establishments.
      CATERING, OFF-PREMISES SERVICE.  The preparation of food, meals, or
specialty products for off-premise consumption. May require Health Department
approval.
      CELLAR. That portion of a building below the first floor joists at least
half of whose clear ceiling height is below the mean level of the adjacent
ground.
      CENTRAL WATER AND SEWER. Water, sewer, and wastewater treatment,
including its infrastructure, provided by a developer, builder, or other
private supplier, for a specific project or development, and serving three or
more residential lots or a minimum of one non-residential lot. An approved plan
for installation, upkeep, and maintenance must be recorded with the Clerk of
the Court of Northampton County, and the system(s) must comply with all
applicable State and Health Department regulations.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued under the provisions of
the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code (VUSBC) pertaining to the legal
use and occupancy of buildings. New certificates of occupancy shall not be
issued unless the structure complies with both the current edition of the VUSBC
and this chapter. Temporary certificates of occupancy may be issued at the
discretion of the Building Official and the Zoning Administrator in accordance
with applicable state and local regulations.
      CHESAPEAKE/ATLANTIC PRESERVATION AREA or CAP. Any land designated by the
Board of Supervisors pursuant to § 62.1-44.15:72. A CHESAPEAKE/ATLANTIC
PRESERVATION AREA shall consist of a RESOURCE PROTECTION AREA and RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT AREA as defined herein.
      CIRCUS. A traveling or transportable show or exhibition consisting of
performances by persons and animals under one tent or similar structure, with
or without side shows.
      CLUB. An association of persons for the promotion of some common object,
such as literature, science, politics, good fellowship and the like created for
the benefit of its members or the general public and not for profit. The term
CLUB shall include LODGE.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT; CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. An arrangement of residential
structures or adjoining residential lots in groupings that would not be
generally permitted under applicable ordinance requirements but are allowed
under the concept of reducing lot size requirements to allow for the provision
of additional open space within the development.
      COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE.  Hereinafter referred to as PRIMARY DUNE,
shall mean a mound of unconsolidated sandy soil which is contiguous to mean
high water, whose landward and lateral limits are marked by a change in grade
from 10% or greater to less than 10%, and upon any part of which is growing any
of the following species: American beach grass (Ammophila breviligulata); beach
heather (Hudsonia tomentosa); dune bean (Strophostyles spp.); dusty miller
(Artemisia stelleriana); saltmeadow hay (Spartina patens); seabeach sandwort
(Honckenya peploides); sea oats (Uniola paniculata); sea rocket (Cakile
edentula); seaside goldenrod ( Solidago sempervirens); Japanese sedge or
Asiatic sand sedge (Carex kobomugi); Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana); broom
sedge (Andropogon virginicus); and short dune grass (Panicum amarum). For
purposes of this chapter, COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE or DUNE shall not include
any mound of sand, sandy soil, or dredge spoil deposited by any person for the
purpose of temporary storage, beach replenishment or beach nourishment, nor
shall the slopes of any such mound be used to determine the landward or lateral
limits of a coastal primary sand dune. Also includes BEACH as defined above.
      COASTAL SECONDARY SAND DUNE.  A mound of unconsolidated sandy soil which
is contiguous to a coastal primary dune or shoreline, whose landward and
lateral limits are marked by a change in grade from 2% to 50% and is classified
as AsE 17-Assateague sand under the Northampton County Soil Survey.
      COMMERCIAL. Any wholesale, retail or service business activity
established to carry on trade for profit; a use that is principally offered by
its owner for a fee.
      COMMERCIAL CENTER. A group of retail or other business establishments,
planned, developed, and owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking
provided on the property and related in size and type of shops to the trade
area the unit serves. A neighborhood commercial center is designed to serve
principally adjacent or nearby residential neighborhoods. A regional commercial
center is designed to serve a larger geographic area than its immediate
neighborhood.
      COMMERCIAL HOG FARM. A farm where hogs are kept and raised primarily for
sale; the principal product or use of such a farm is hogs.
      COMMERCIAL POULTRY FARM. A farm where poultry are kept and raised
primarily for sale; the principal product or use of such a farm is poultry.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any space, tract or parcel of land owned in undivided
interest, not devoted to residential uses or structures, but directly related
and adjacent to a cluster development or planned development, as herein
provided.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A building or set of buildings designed or used to
serve as a social center of a town, village, hamlet, subdivision or
neighborhood.
      COMPATIBLE. Congruous with or having the same general characteristics as
the existing entity and/or consistent with the organization of elements which
make up the existing entity.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted Comprehensive Plan for Northampton
County, Virginia, including specifically the Land Use Plan, an element of the
Comprehensive Plan, together with all other amendments and elements.
      CONDOMINIUM. Ownership of single units in a multiple unit structure or
complex having common elements.
      CONFERENCE CENTER. A facility for work sessions, business meetings, and
educational seminars, which may also offer on-site food service and overnight
accommodations for clientele of the facility.
      CONSTRUCTION FOOTPRINT. The area of all impervious surface, including,
but not limited to, buildings, roads and drives, parking areas, and sidewalks
and the area necessary for construction of such improvements, such as land
disturbance (grading, clearing, filling, and excavating), stormwater
facilities, best management practices (BMPs), and utilities including
drainfields, etc. The construction footprint may also include open space
outside the buffer area up to 50 feet in width around the primary structure.
      CONTRACTOR, BUILDER/ CONSTRUCTION. An enterprise specializing in
residential, commercial, or industrial construction, paving and utility
installation, which may include heavy equipment and outdoor bulk storage.
      CONTRACTOR, HOME IMPROVEMENT/ INSTALLATION. An enterprise specializing in
home repairs, remodeling, roofing, painting, siding, doors, windows, HVAC,
plumbing, electric and similar residential building improvements, which does
not include heavy equipment storage or extensive, unscreened outdoor storage.
      CONVENIENCE STORE, QUICK SERVICE. Any building, except a service station,
which contains less than 5,000 square feet of net floor area and which is used
for the retail sale of food, beverages, and other items.
      CONVENTIONAL ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM. A wastewater treatment system
consisting of one or more septic tanks with gravity, pumped, or siphoned
conveyance to a gravity-distributed subsurface drainfield.
      CORN MAZE. A temporary series of trails cut through a corn or hybrid
Sudangrass field for entertainment; its use may be offered for a fee.
      COUNTY RESIDENT ENGINEER. The Resident Highway Engineer of Northampton
County, Virginia, of the Virginia Department of Transportation, or his/her
designated assistant or deputy.
      CRITICAL ROOT AREA. A circular region measured outward from a tree trunk
representing the essential area of the roots that must be maintained or
protected for the tree's survival. CRITICAL ROOT AREA is one foot of radial
distance for every inch of tree DBH with a minimum of eight feet.
      DANCE HALL. A facility providing live or recorded music and a dance floor
for the use and entertainment of patrons.
      DAY CARE CENTERS. Facilities providing day care or nursery services for
children.
      DAY SPA. A private facility providing health, stress-reducing, and
relaxation services such as facials, therapeutic massage, mineral baths, and
beauty treatments. There shall be a maximum of ten clients at any given time,
and no overnight accommodations shall be provided.
      DESIGN. The layout, arrangement, and composition of the main features of
the community or other entity.
      DESIGN/PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility for the design and production of
specialty products, i.e., boat interiors, stage sets, specialty cabinetry
intended for installation, acoustic musical instruments, hunting and fishing
equipment.
      DESIGN STUDIO. A professionally- equipped studio for conceptual or
abstract design. May include the production of prototypes for endeavors such as
architecture, computer/internet design, engineering, urban planning, product
design, advertising.
      DETACHED. Not attached to another structure or in the case of dwelling
units, a dwelling surrounded by yards on all sides on the same lot.
      DEVELOPER. A person having legal title to any tract of land or parcel of
land or authority to act for such person regarding the development or proposed
development of property.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT or DBH. The diameter of a tree measured outside
the bark at a point four and one-half feet above ground.
      DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND ZONING. An appointed county official who serves
as the Director of Planning and Zoning for Northampton County, Virginia, or
his/her designated deputy or assistant.
      DISTRICT. A zoning district or category referred to in VA Code §§ 15.2-
2280 and 15.2-2281.
      DOCK. A facility, including piers, pilings and boat slips, but excluding
boathouses, for the mooring, berthing or securing of watercraft.
      DRIPLINE. A vertical projection to the ground surface from the furthest
lateral extent of a tree's leaf canopy.
      DRIVEWAY or ACCESSWAY. That space specifically designated and reserved on
the site for movement of vehicles from one site to another or from a site to a
public street or access easement.
      DROP-SHIP CENTER. A facility for storing, packing, and shipping of mail-,
phone-, and internet-ordered merchandise.
      DUNE. See COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE.
      DUPLEX. An arrangement of two attached dwelling units within the same
structure, each occupied by a separate family and having the following specific
characteristics: each unit has its own access to the outside, units have the
same exterior architectural facade and treatment of materials, and units are
not setback from each other and share the same roofline.
      DUSTLESS SURFACE. A surface adequately covered in practice with a minimum
of either two applications of bituminous surface treatment, concrete,
bituminous concrete, or equivalent paving material approved by the Director of
Planning and Zoning and to be maintained in good condition at all times.
      DWELLING. A structure or part of a structure containing one or more
dwelling units. Dwellings may be further identified as one-family (or single-
family), duplex, multiple-family semi-detached, or attached. Dwelling units
contain independent living facilities, and generally contain permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. One of two or more residential buildings having a
common or party wall separating dwelling units.
      DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM. A building or group of buildings in which dwelling
units are individually owned, and the structure, common areas and facilities
are owned by an association established under Virginia Law.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site is 320 or more square
feet and is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required
utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      DWELLING, MODULAR UNIT. A factory- fabricated transportable building
designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a
building site into a modular structure. The term is intended to apply to major
assemblies and does not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees
and other prefabricated sub-elements incorporated into a structure at the site.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A structure containing three to five attached
dwelling units, each intended for occupancy by a separate family.
      DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. One of two buildings, arranged or designed as
dwellings located on abutting walls without openings, and with each building
having a separate lot with minimum dimensions required by district regulations.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A residential dwelling unit other than a single
unit manufactured home designed for and occupied by one family only.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-WIDE, DOUBLE-WIDE OR TRIPLE-WIDE PORTABLE. A portable
dwelling consisting respectively of one, two or three sections combined
horizontally at the site to form a single dwelling, while still retaining their
individual chassis for possible future movement.
      DWELLING, TEMPORARY. A manufactured home but not necessarily attached to
a permanent foundation, intended for temporary use and occupancy.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single complete independent living facility for one or
more families or persons physically separated from any other dwelling unit
which may be in the same structure. An independent living facility includes
permanent provision for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation and
must comply with Uniform Statewide Building Code requirements and Health
Department regulations. The presence of a bathroom containing a sink and toilet
shall constitute permanent provisions for sanitation. DWELLING UNITS are a unit
of measurement used as one of the components to calculate density.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of his/her land by
another party for a specific purpose.
      ENCLOSED. Enclosed within a building.
      ENGINEER. A person who is licensed by the state and who is registered
with the Virginia Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation (DPOR)
as a "licensed professional engineer."
      ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS. Land areas and/or water features
vulnerable to degradation and/or destruction caused by flooding, erosion and
sedimentation and/or subject to surface or groundwater contamination.
      ERECTED. Constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered.
      ETHANOL PRODUCTION. The conversion of corn or other cellulosic matter
into ethanol as the product is described in the Alternative Motor Fuels Act of
1988.
      EVENT VENUE. The commercial use of land, structures and buildings
established at a permanent location where people assemble to take part in
entertainment, educational, cultural, organizational, ceremonial and / or
celebratory events, open to the public or private parties for use, and usually
operated in exchange for remuneration. This use is separate from the use
"agritourism" which has separate standards establish by the VA Code.
      EXISTING. Existing at the date of adoption of the ordinance set forth in
this chapter.
      FABRICATION. The process of constructing or assembling a product from
previously prepared parts, elements or materials which have been manufactured
off-site of the fabrication activity.
      FAIRGROUND. A parcel or tract of land used either temporarily or
permanently (as permitted herein), as the site of any fair, exposition or
public display.
      FALL ZONE. Furthest distance from the tower base in which a wind turbine
will collapse in the event of a structural failure.
      FAMILY. An individual, group of persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or legal guardianship, or a group of no more than three unrelated
persons living together as an independent housekeeping unit.
      FAMILY DAY HOME. A child day program as defined in VA Code § 63.2-100
where the care is provided in the provider's home and is state regulated;
locally approved or regulated homes are not included in this definition.
      FARM OR RANCH. One or more areas of land used for the production,
cultivation, growing, harvesting or processing of agricultural products.
      FARM BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The same as the term defined in VA Code § 36-
97 and also includes any building or structure used for agritourism activity,
as defined in VA Code § 3.2-6400, and related impervious surfaces including
roads, driveways, and parking areas. A FARM BUILDING OR STRUCTURE is a building
or structure not used for residential purposes, located on property where
farming operations take place, and used primarily for any of the following uses
or combination thereof:
         (a)   Storage, handling, production, display, sampling, or sale of
agricultural, horticultural, floricultural, or silvicultural products produced
in the farm;
         (b)   Sheltering, raising, handling, processing, or sale of
agricultural animals or agricultural animal products;
         (c)   Business or office uses relating to the farm operations;
         (d)   Use of farm machinery or equipment or maintenance or storage of
vehicles, machinery, or equipment on the farm;
         (e)   Storage or use of supplies and materials used on the farm; or
         (f)   Implementation of best management practices associated with farm
operations.
      FARM COTTAGES. As a commercial enterprise on a working farm, a group of
up to 12 small separated structures, each with sleeping accommodations, and
which may have cooking facilities, intended for short-term vacation rentals and
subject to transient occupancy tax, not intended as permanent housing.
      FARM MARKET. A seasonal or year round business selling agricultural
products, value added agricultural products and agricultural-related products
from a permanent structure or building.
      FARM STAND. A seasonal business selling agricultural products and value
added agricultural products. A farm stand shall not be a permanent structure or
building, shall not be permanently affixed to the ground, shall comply with all
applicable building codes and includes structures such as canopy tents and
stands. Farm stands shall also include vehicles and mobile carts properly
registered and licensed by the Virginia Department of Transportation.
      FAST FOOD SERVICE OPERATION. A food service operation where food and/or
beverages are prepared and dispensed either at a customer counter or through a
drive-up window. Table seating may be provided, but table service is incidental
to self-service.
      FASTLANDS. As used in the definition of shoreline, FASTLANDS means
uplands.
      FENCE. A fixed structure designed to prevent escape or intrusion or to
define property.
      FIRE LANE. A means of access of sufficient design to permit ingress and
egress by firefighting equipment.
      FIRING RANGE, OUTDOOR. A maintained, supervised facility for firearm use.
Includes the shooting of skeet and sporting clays and target practice.
      FLAG. A piece of cloth or similar material, typically oblong or square,
attachable by one edge to a pole or rope and used as a symbol or decoration;
this includes pennants.
      FLEA MARKET. A retail establishment or area of land on which are sold
secondhand or antique goods.
      FLEXIBLE TERM RENTAL UNIT. An efficiency or suite apartment, available
for rental for terms less than a full year and which includes cooking
facilities and is considered a dwelling unit.
      FLOOR AREA. The total gross floor area of all floor or portions of floors
in a structure and measured from outside to outside of exterior walls.
      FOOD PROCESSING. Any active change or transformation of farm crops, raw
materials, or previously processed foodstuffs, using any physical or chemical
means, which yields a new product or the same product in a different form.
      FOREST PRODUCT HARVESTING. The gathering of products yielded by naturally
growing trees, shrubs and other forest plants, e.g., pine straw, decorative
flora, and nuts. May include packaging for sale and distribution, but does not
include logging or land clearing.
      FORM. The combination of visual qualities and elements, natural or man-
made, which comprise a community or project.
      FRONTAGE. Lot width at the building set back line along a public road,
private road or access easement. (See LOT WIDTH).
      FUNERAL PARLOR. A building used for the preparation of a deceased person
for burial and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation.
      GAME CENTER, COIN-OPERATED. An enclosed facility of no more than 1,500
square feet gross floor area containing coin-operated manual, electric, or
electronic game machines.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL. A structure which is accessory to a
residential building and which is used for the parking and storage of vehicles
owned and operated by the residents thereof, and which is not a separate
commercial enterprise available to the general public.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion thereof, other than a private
residential garage used primarily for the parking and storage of vehicles and
which is available to the general public.
      GARAGE, REPAIR.  A building, together with the land upon which it is
located and upon or within which a business, service or industry involving the
maintenance, servicing, repair or painting of vehicles is conducted.
      GAZEBO.  A residential accessory building consisting of a detached,
covered, free-standing, open-air structure not exceeding 300 square feet and
having a maximum height of 15 feet, designed for recreational use only and not
for habitation.
      GO-KART TRACK. A maintained, fenced, non-impervious track for unlicensed
mechanized vehicles. To mitigate such nuisance factors as noise, traffic, and
dust, conditions may be imposed including but not limited to the following:
setbacks; periodic noise-level studies; hours of operation; number of
simultaneous users; vegetative buffers; fencing; and restrictions on ingress
and egress to a single owner-manned entrance.
      GRAIN DRYER. A facility for drying grain. A COMMERCIAL GRAIN DRYER is one
in which the grain dried is primarily grown by sources other than the owner
and/or operator of the facility. A NONCOMMERCIAL GRAIN DRYER is one in which
the grain dried is primarily grown by the owner and/or operator of the
facility.
      GROSS ACREAGE. Total area expressed in acreage of a development or
proposed development, including streets, recreational areas and other areas
which function as part of the development, and easements, but excluding land
classified as wetlands or conservation areas.
      GROUNDCOVER. The lowest vegetation stratum; generally all vegetation less
than three feet in height and comprised primarily of herbaceous plants.
      GROUP HOME.  A respite care service facility, retirement home or
supervised living residential facility that houses more than eight individuals
or otherwise is not a "residential facility" as defined herein.
      GUEST HOUSE. An accessory structure, clearly subordinate to the principal
residence, intended to provide temporary accommodations for visitors and not
intended for year-round occupancy. May be modular or stick-built with square
footage not to exceed a maximum of 50% of the gross floor area of the primary
dwelling on the parcel. Must meet all setback and water and wastewater/septic
requirements.
      GUEST RANCH/LODGE. A commercial enterprise for guest accommodations with
up to 12 rooms. May have one central building, or smaller separate units, for
sleeping accommodations. Meals, entertainment and activities may be included as
part of the accommodations, which are subject to transient occupancy taxation.
      GUIDE, OUTFITTER SERVICES. An operation established to provide
information, direction, licensing and safety requirements to clients for
recreational activities including, but not limited to, hunting, fishing,
kayaking, hiking, bicycle and horseback riding, and bird watching. Includes
conducting excursions, use, or rental of appropriate equipment, and incidental
sales of associated gear and supplies.
      HEALTH CARE FACILITY. A facility or institution, whether public or
private, principally engaged in providing services for health maintenance,
diagnosis, or treatment of human disease, pain, injury, deformity, or physical
condition.
      HEALTH CLUB/FITNESS CENTER. A facility which offers amenities for weight
lifting, exercise and sports such as squash, racquetball, and basketball,
exercise equipment and/or a swimming pool (with or without instruction), a
steam room, and/or sauna. Such facility shall include restroom facilities and
may provide locker room facilities and/or additional services such as dietary
counseling and personal training.
      HEALTH OFFICIAL. The Director of Health for Northampton County or his/her
designated agent or deputy.
      HELIPAD. Part of a heliport; a fabricated or grass surface for helicopter
take-off and landing that does not include fuel or chemical storage. The
surface must be maintained so that there is no flying debris.
      HELIPORT. A facility for helicopter take-off and landing which may
include appurtenant facilities and services such as fuel, parking, maintenance,
and storage.
      HISTORIC AREA. An area containing one or more buildings or places in
which historic events occurred or having special public value because of
notable architectural, archaeological or other features relating to the
cultural or artistic heritage of the community and such significance as to
warrant conservation and preservation.
      HISTORIC INN.  A pre-1950 structure of historic or architectural
significance as determined by the County's Historic Review Board or the Board
of Supervisors in which overnight lodging and/or food service is offered to
guests. All such inns must meet applicable Health Department, Building Code or
other county and state regulations.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A low-impact commercial use conducted in an owner- or
renter-occupied dwelling or accessory structure(s) accessory to an owner- or
renter-occupied dwelling in accordance with this chapter.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A non-profit organization operating under
recorded land agreements pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia
and through which:
         (a)   Each lot and/or homeowner is automatically a member;
         (b)   Each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a
proportionate share of the expenses for the organization's activities, such as
maintaining a common property or private road; and
         (c)   The charge if unpaid becomes a lien against the property.
      HOSPITAL. A licensed and state-accredited health care institution in
which sick or injured persons are given inpatient or outpatient medical or
surgical treatment.
      HOTEL. Any building containing five or more guest rooms where, for
compensation, lodging, and/or meals or baths are provided for guests.
      HOUSING FOR AGRICULTURAL WORKERS IN ASSOCIATION WITH AN AGRICULTURAL
OPERATION. A shelter, building or portion of a building, or an area or piece of
land where sleeping places or housing sites that may include cooking or eating
facilities are provided by an agricultural employer for his/her agricultural
employees or by another person, including a temporary housing operator, who is
providing accommodations for agricultural employees and their families, for
temporary, seasonal occupancy. The following definitions apply in the
construction of this provision:
         (a)   AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to, or
under the direction of, an agricultural employer in connection with the
employer's agricultural activity.
         (b)   AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYER. Any person engaged in agricultural
activity, including the growing, producing, or harvesting of farm, nursery, or
aquaculture products.
         (c)   OPERATOR. A person holding legal title to the land on which
worker housing is located. However, if legal title and the right to possession
are in different persons, OPERATOR means a person having the lawful control or
supervision over the temporary worker housing under a lease or other
arrangement.
      HOUSING FOR STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF IN ASSOCIATION WITH A LEARNING
INSTITUTE. Dormitory-style accommodations with no individual housekeeping
units.
      IMPERVIOUS COVER. A surface composed of any material that significantly
impedes or prevents natural infiltration of water into the soil. Impervious
surfaces include, but are not limited to: roofs, buildings, streets, parking
areas, and any concrete, asphalt, or compacted gravel surface.
      INDUSTRIAL TRADE SCHOOL. School offering instruction and training in
mechanical or industrial techniques.
      INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, trailer, or attachment thereto,
which is required by the Commonwealth and county to display current plates and/
or meet safety standards as evidenced by display of an appropriate inspection
sticker, which vehicle, trailer, or attachment thereto does not display the
license plates and/or approved inspection sticker.
      JUNK YARD. Any land or building used for the abandonment, storage,
keeping, collecting or bailing of paper, rags, scrap metals, other scrap or
discarded materials, or for the abandonment, demolition, dismantling, storage
or salvaging of automobiles or other vehicles not in running condition,
machinery or parts thereof. The term JUNK YARD shall include automobile
graveyard as defined by Virginia law.
      kW. Kilowatt.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. A place prepared to house, board, breed, handle or
otherwise keep or care for dogs and other domestic pets for sale or in return
for compensation.
      LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR/SITE WORK.  A facility for storage of equipment and
supplies for earth-moving, site preparation, ditch maintenance, dock and
bulkhead work, and major site clearance. Such equipment and supplies may
include, but are not limited to, large motorized equipment, trucks, trailers,
bulk storage of mulch, earth, and gravel.
      LANDSCAPE DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE. A facility providing office space and
storage of equipment and supplies associated with yard maintenance, such as
lawn mowers and bagged bulk materials.
      LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. Any activity which includes production, processing,
manufacturing, building, rebuilding, fabrication, storage, machining, repair,
construction or other processes involving machinery, equipment, vehicles,
shipping, receiving, and which creates noise, traffic, fumes, waste-stream or
other run-off, off-site electrical interference and/or area lighting.
      LIVE/WORK UNIT. A structure which must include a residential dwelling
unit but which may also include a commercial or business use operated by the
owner/tenant. All uses must be allowed in the district in which the unit is
located.
      LOADING SPACE. Any off-street space available for the loading or
unloading of goods, not less than 15 feet wide, 25 feet long and 14 feet high,
and having direct usable access to a street or alley, except where one such
loading space has been provided, any additional loading space lying alongside,
contiguous to and not separated from such first loading space need not be wider
than 12 feet.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a use
permitted in this chapter, which may include a main building and its accessory
buildings or by a group of dwellings and their accessory buildings, together
with such open spaces as are required under the provisions of this chapter,
having at least the minimum area required by this chapter for a lot in the zone
in which such lot is situated and either shown on a plat of record or
considered as a unit of property and described by metes and bounds.
      LOT, AREA. The total horizontal area included within the rear, side and
front lines or proposed street lines of the lot, excluding any streets or
highways, whether dedicated or not dedicated to public use, but including off-
street automobile parking areas and other accessory uses. Lot areas shall not
include portions under water except where the total area of a body of water is
within a lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more roads, rights-of-way, or access
easements at their intersection on the two sides of a corner lot; the front of
the lot shall be the shorter of the two sides fronting on such roads, rights-
of-way or access easements.
      LOT, COVERAGE. A measure of intensity of land use that represents the
portion of a site that is impervious. This portion includes but is not limited
to all areas covered by buildings, structures, driveways, roads, sidewalks, or
other impervious surface. Lot coverage = total lot area – open space.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line, measured along a straight line.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot with frontage on two streets, not at their
intersection.
      LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, PIPESTEM.  A lot which contains at least the minimum area required
for a residential lot in the zone in which it is located but which lacks the
minimum street frontage because of its unusual shape, and therefore requires,
for access, a long narrow strip of land for a driveway or access road to
connect the main portion of the lot with a public road.
      LOT, WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between side lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which has been recorded in the Clerk's office of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County.
      MW. Megawatt.
      MANUFACTURE and/or MANUFACTURING. The processing and/or converting of
raw, unfinished materials or products, or either of them, into articles or
substances of different character or for use for a different purpose.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width and
40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 square feet or
more, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein. For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a
label certifying compliance to the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA 501, in
effect at the time of manufacture is required.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  (Same as MOBILE HOME, MOBILE
HOME PARK and the like.) Pursuant to VA Code §§ 36-85.3 through 36-85.11,
references in this chapter to mobile home, mobile home park, or similar
references shall be referred to as manufactured homes and the like.
      MARINE NAVIGATION AIDS. Lighted or unlighted, non-mechanical location-
finding devices for use by boaters.
      MARINE RAILWAY. A stationary, mechanized system for conveying boats in
and out of water for the purpose of repair and/or maintenance.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average between the mean low tide and mean high tide.
      MEDICAL CLINIC.  Establishment wherein medical care is provided on an
outpatient basis, as distinguished from a hospital or a professional office.
      MET TOWER or METEOROLOGICAL TOWER.  A temporary tower used to measure
wind speed and direction.
      METMAST. A guy-wired meteorological mast to measure at hub height and
lower heights the wind speeds and other climatic variables such as temperature,
air pressure, humidity, salt and dust concentrations, etc.
      MICRO-BREWERY. A limited-production facility for beer-brewing which may
have on-site sales and a tap room.
      MIXED USE. Having more than one type of use adjacent to, or in close
proximity to, each other, e.g. residential and commercial, commercial and
industrial.
      MIXED-USE STRUCTURE, OTHER. A structure containing two or more separate,
self-contained units, which may accommodate different uses concurrently.
Different uses may occupy different levels in the structure, or may exist side
by side, and all uses must be allowed in the district.
      MIXED-USE STRUCTURE, RESIDENTIAL. A structure containing two or more
separate, self-contained units, which may accommodate different uses
concurrently, at least one of which must be designated as a residential
dwelling unit. Different uses may occupy different levels in the structure, or
may exist side by side, e.g., residential/ commercial general, residential/
neighborhood business, but all uses must be allowed in the district in which
the structure is located.
      MOBILE HOME. A single-family dwelling unit which is manufactured as a
single integrated unit and designed for transportation, after fabrication, on
streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers. Such
unit is delivered to the site complete and ready for occupancy as a single-
family dwelling except for minor or incidental unpacking and assembly
operation, location on jacks or permanent foundations, connection to utilities
and the like.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of five to ten acres designed to accommodate
mobile homes intended for residential use where residence is in mobile homes
exclusively and lots are rented rather than sold.
      MODULAR HOME. See MODULAR UNIT.
      MODULAR UNIT. A factory-fabricated transportable building designed to be
used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site into
a modular structure. This term is intended to apply to major assemblies and
does not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees and other
prefabricated sub-elements incorporated into a structure at the site.
      MOTEL or MOTOR LODGE. See HOTEL.
      MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any equipment required to be licensed by the Department of
Motor Vehicles as a motor vehicle, but not including junked cars or cars
disabled to the point of not being operable.
      MURAL. A mural work of art (such as a painting).
      MUSEUM. A facility designed to display and provide an interpretive
context to art, artifacts, lifestyles, industry, history, events, processes,
and/or collections.
      NEWS STAND (OUTDOOR). A facility for the sale of print material.
      NONCONFORMING ACTIVITY, LAWFUL. The otherwise legal use of a building or
structure or of a tract of land that does not conform to the use regulations of
this chapter for the district in which it is located, either at the effective
date of this chapter or as a result of subsequent amendments to this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING LOT, LAWFUL. An otherwise legally platted and recorded lot
that does not conform to the minimum requirements of this chapter for the
district in which it is located either at the effective date of this chapter or
as a result of subsequent amendments of this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, LAWFUL. An otherwise legal building or structure
that does not conform to the minimum requirements or permitted uses of this
chapter for the district in which it is located either at the effective date of
this chapter or as a result of subsequent amendments to this chapter.
      NON-MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT.  Self-propelled, water-oriented recreational
vehicles, such as kayaks, canoes, pedal boats, wind surfing boards and sails,
and sailboats.
      NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution consisting of constituents such as
sediment, nutrients, and organic and toxic substances from diffuse sources,
such as runoff from agriculture and urban land development and use.
      NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An incorporated organization or group whose
charter prohibits profit-making endeavors and which enjoys tax exemption
privileges.
      NOTICE. When used in this chapter, the word NOTICE shall mean the same as
that required for advertising plans, ordinances and other pending public
actions in VA Code § 15.2-2204.
      NONTIDAL WETLANDS. Those wetlands other than tidal wetlands that are
inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration
sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, as defined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to
§ 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act (being 33 U.S.C. § 1344), in 33 C.F.R. §
328.3b, dated November 13, 1986.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Weeds that are difficult to control effectively, such as
Johnson grass, Kudzu, and multiflora rose.
      NURSERY/DAY CARE CENTERS.  Licensed facilities providing day care or
nursery services for six or more children.
      NURSING HOME. An intermediate or long-term health care facility licensed
or approved to provide full-time convalescent or chronic care to individuals
who, by reason of advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to
care for themselves.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Four-wheel-drive vehicles, such as sport utility
vehicles and pick-up trucks, designed and equipped for on- or off-road use. May
be licensed for on-road use.
      OFF-SITE. A location that is not on the same lot or parcel; not on-site.
      OFF-STREET PARKING AREA OR PARKING BAYS. Space provided for vehicular
parking outside the dedicated street right-of-way.
      ON-SITE. A location on all or on a portion of a parcel of land which is
the subject of an application for approval by the Board of Supervisors,
Planning Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals, and which parcel of land is in
single ownership or under unified control; not off-site.
      ON-SITE CONSTRUCTION. The practice of building a structure on location as
opposed to moving a manufactured structure on site.
      OPEN SPACE. Water or land left in undisturbed open condition, unoccupied
by buildings, streets or parking lots or occupied by approved commonly owned
recreational facilities. Open space = lot area - lot coverage.
      OWNER. The fee simple owner(s) of a property.
      PACKING. The act of packaging agricultural or seafood products, often at
the site of production or agricultural or site of landing for seafood products.
There is no cooking or processing involved.
      PAINTBALL COURSE. A dedicated area, building, or playing field set up for
team paintball competition involving the discharge of balls consisting of
biodegradable, non-toxic, water-soluble materials.
      PARCEL. Any tract of land or water not subdivided and shown and
identified on the Northampton County Tax Maps as an acreage parcel.
      PARK.  A bordered open space, with planned upkeep and maintenance which
may include children's playground, tennis courts, fitness trail, nature trail,
and other low-impact facilities.
      PARKING SPACE. A space of sufficient size and shape to park one standard
size automobile and containing not less than 180 square feet of area.
      PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that captures solar light or heat
without transforming it to another form of energy or by transferring the energy
via a heat exchanger.
      PAVILION. A permanent, open-sided shelter designed for commercial or
recreational use only, but not for habitation; not to exceed 3,200 square feet
in area.
      PEN. A small enclosure used for the concentrated confinement and housing
of animals or poultry; a place for feeding and fattening animals or poultry; a
coop.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A bond of surety, and/or cash deposit approved by the
Board of Supervisors equal to full cost of improvements required by these
regulations and providing for completion of such improvements within a definite
term.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC. Pertaining to the direct conversion of photons of sunlight
into electricity.
      PIPE STEM LOT. See LOT, PIPE STEM.
      PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT. Site plans, subdivision plats, proffered rezoning
plans, plans associated with approved special use permits, grading plans, and
any and all other development-related plans used for review to ensure
compliance with VA Code § 10.1-2109 and this chapter, prior to any clearing or
grading of a site or the issuance of a building permit.
      PLAT. A document, prepared by a person who is licensed by the Virginia
Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation as a licensed land
surveyor or a licensed professional engineer that delineates property lines and
shows monuments and other landmarks for the purpose of identifying property.
When used in the Northampton County Subdivision Ordinance as a verb, PLAT is
synonymous with SUBDIVIDE.
      PLEIN AIR EVENT. A painting/drawing event, usually one to three days, at
which participants produce art on-site outdoors, for the enjoyment and
edification of visitors. May include exhibition and sale of the work produced.
      PORCH. A covered or uncovered, open or enclosed, entrance to a building,
or a gallery or room on the outside of a building, i.e., a balcony or portico.
      POULTRY. All domestic fowl and game birds raised in captivity.
      PREVAILING SETBACK. The prevalent and predominant (i.e., most frequently
occurring) setback in a defined area.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use made or intended to be made of a parcel of
land or a building or structure located on such parcel.
      PRIVATE. A use principally for the benefit of its owner, whether for his/
her profit or not. The use may occasionally be offered to family and friends of
the owner but when so offered shall not be for a fee or for profit to the
owner.
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. Includes private schools, colleges, or universities and
private instructional/training institutions.
      PROCESSING. A series of actions or operations upon a raw material or
product resulting in a change of form of the product, usually adding value to
that product. PROCESSING may involve cooking or industrial processing.
      PRODUCE STAND. A seasonal business selling primarily locally raised farm
produce.
      PRODUCTION AGRICULTURE, AQUACULTURE AND SILVICULTURE. The bona fide
production or harvesting of agricultural or silvicultural products but shall
not include the processing of agricultural or silvicultural products or the
above ground application or storage of sewage sludge or disposal of
nonagricultural excavation material, waste and debris if the excavation
material, waste and debris are not generated on the farm, subject to the
provisions of the Virginia Waste Management Act.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of a person engaged in any occupation,
vocation or calling, not purely commercial, mechanical or agricultural, in
which a professed knowledge or skill in some department of science or learning
is used in its practical application to the affairs of others, either advising
or guiding them in serving their interest or welfare through the practice of an
act founded thereon.
      PROPERTY. Any tract, lot or parcel or several of the same collected
together for the purpose of subdividing, preparing a site development plan and/
or developing.
      PUBLIC. A use owned by a government entity or agency.
      PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT. A legal easement, or series of easements, which
grant and guarantee the right of access for emergency and public service
vehicles to any given area or right-of-way.
      PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Any building owned by a governmental organization such
as a county, city, town, state or federal government. Such buildings may
include a city hall, a county courthouse, a state armory, a federal office
building, a post office, an auditorium, a museum, an art gallery, a college or
university, hospital, clinics, school, library, police station, fire or rescue
squad station and the like.
      PUBLIC FACILITIES. Any public works supplied generally by a governmental
organization or for governmental or public use. Such public works shall
include, but not be limited to: public roads, schools, water supply and sewer
facilities, police and fire protection facilities, and telecommunication
facilities.
      PUBLIC SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A central system for the removal, carrying off,
treatment and disposal of sewage serving or designed to serve three or more
independent dwellings or structures and which may be owned and/or operated by a
municipality, county, public service authority, home association, or other
person(s) approved by the Board of Supervisors in accordance with VA Code Title
62.1, as amended, and licensed by the State Corporation Commission.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A central system for supplying potable water to
three or more independent dwellings and which may be owned and/or operated by a
municipality, county, public service authority, home association or other
person(s) approved by the Board of Supervisors and properly licensed by the
State Board of Health in accordance with VA Code Title 62.1, as amended, and
licensed by the State Corporation Commission.
      QUARRYING. The industry of extracting stone from an open excavation.
QUARRYING shall be deemed to include both the extraction and processing of
crushed stone for aggregate and related uses and the extraction of stone in
blocks for building, monumental and related uses, but shall not be deemed to
include sand and gravel operations nor extractive industries of a temporary
nature. (See SAND OR GRAVEL PIT).
      RATED NAMEPLATE CAPACITY.  The maximum rated output of electric power
production equipment. The output is typically specified by the manufacturer
with a "nameplate" on the equipment.
      RECLAMATION. The act or process of reclaiming a useful product from
recycled material. RECLAMATION is a continuous industrial process conducted at
a permanent site.
      RECORD, RECORDED, RECORDING. Admission to record in the offices of the
clerk of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      RECREATIONAL AREA, COMMERCIAL. Any establishment operated as a commercial
enterprise in which facilities are provided for patrons related to the
following activities: camping, picnicking, boating, crabbing, fishing,
swimming, outdoor games and sports and incidental uses which are customarily
provided for patrons of such facilities, including refreshment stand, snack
bar, café, and a general store. A commercial recreational area does not include
go-kart tracks, ATV trails or tracks, shooting ranges or engine-propelled
mechanical amusement devices.
      RECREATIONAL AREA, PUBLIC. Any establishment operated by the county or a
local government in which public facilities are provided for indoor and outdoor
recreation activities.
      RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT SALES/ RENTALS (MECHANICAL). An establishment for
display, rental, and/or sale of mechanical, engine-driven recreational
equipment.
      RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT SALES/RENTALS (NON-MECHANICAL). An establishment
for display, rental, and/or sale of non- mechanical recreational equipment such
as bicycles, canoes, and kayaks.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      RV/CAMPING EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTALS. An establishment for display,
rental, and/or sale of RVs, travel trailers, campers, tents, and other camping
equipment.
      RECYCLING. The act of collecting materials for reuse or reclamation.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION SITE. A location for the collection of materials for
recycling. Such a collection site may be either permanent for continuous or
intermittent use or temporary.
      RECYCLING TRANSFER STATION. A permanent location where recyclable
materials from several collection sites are collected and stored for large
volume transfer to a reclamation center.
      RECYCLING YARD. An establishment engaged in the storage, sale,
dismantling or processing of used or waste material including (1) principal
recyclable materials including but not limited to paper, metal, plastic,
container glass, commingled, yard waste, wood waste, textiles, tires, used oil,
used oil filters, used antifreeze, batteries, electronics and (2) vehicles and
components thereof if the property owner is a licensed auto recycler per
Chapter 16 of Title 46.2 of the Code of Virginia.
      REDEVELOPMENT. The process of developing land that is or has been
previously developed.
      REHABILITATION CENTERS. Facilities to restore persons to a state of
physical, mental or moral health through treatment and training.
      REPLACEMENT VEGETATION. That vegetation which replaces protected
vegetation that has been removed.
      REQUIRED OPEN SPACE. Any space required in any front, side or rear yard.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.  
         (a)   A group home or other residential facility for which the
Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services is the
licensing authority in which no more than eight individuals with mental
illness, intellectual disability, or developmental disabilities reside, with
one or more resident or nonresident staff persons. "Mental illness" shall not
include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance as
defined in VA Code § 54.1-3401, or
         (b)   Any assisted living facility or residential facility for which
the Department of Social Services is the licensing authority and in which no
more than eight aged, infirm or disabled persons reside, with one or more
resident counselors or other staff.
      RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AREA or RMA. That component of the Chesapeake/
Atlantic Preservation Area that is not classified as the resource protection
area. RMAs include land types that, if improperly used or developed, have the
potential for causing significant water quality degradation or for diminishing
the functional value of the resource protection area. In Northampton County,
this includes all land not designated as a resource protection area.
      RESOURCE PROTECTION AREA or RPA. That component of the Chesapeake/
Atlantic Preservation Area comprised of lands at or near the shoreline that
have an intrinsic water quality value due to the ecological and biological
processes they perform or are sensitive to impacts which may result in
significant degradation to the quality of state waters.
      RESPITE CARE FACILITY. A licensed facility that provides short-term,
time-limited periods of care of an individual for the purpose of providing
relief to the individual's family, guardian, or regular care giver. Individuals
providing respite care are recruited, trained, and supervised by a licensed
provider. These services may be provided in a variety of settings including
residential, in-home at a day-support facility, or in a sponsored residential
home.
      RESTAURANT. Any building in which for compensation food or beverages are
dispensed for consumption on the premises, including, among other
establishments, cafeterias, cafes, tea rooms and confectionery shops. Includes
prepared and carry-out food items. RESTAURANT shall not include FAST FOOD
SERVICE OPERATION.
      RETAIL STORES AND SHOPS. Buildings for display and sale of merchandise at
retail or for the rendering of personal services (but specifically exclusive of
coal, wood and lumber yards) such as the following, which serve as
illustrations only and are not to be considered to be exclusive: drug stores,
newsstands, food stores, candy shops, milk dispensaries, dry goods and notions
stores, antique stores and gift shops, hardware stores, household appliance
stores, furniture stores, florists, opticians, music and radio stores, tailor
shops, barber shops and beauty shops. RETAIL STORES AND SHOPS do not include
quick service convenient stores.
      RETIREMENT HOME. A residential facility that provides accommodations, for
a fee, to aged individuals, where the provider assumes responsibility for
management of the daily physical environment of the residence. Staff
supervision and monitoring are on a 24-hour basis. Such facilities may include,
but not be limited to, private or semi-private accommodations, on-site food
service, indoor and outdoor recreation opportunities, indoor and outdoor common
space, and resident parking facilities. Must have all required licenses.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for a road,
crosswalk, railroad, sanitary or storm sewer, water main, drainage facility,
public utility, or other special use.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle subject to moving wind turbine
blades.
      RURAL BUSINESS. Any one of the specifically named types of business
listed in this chapter and which conform to the criteria found herein. The
RURAL BUSINESS designation shall be offered by special use permit only in
several zoning districts as set forth in Appendix A. A business may be added to
that list through the zoning ordinance text amendment process set forth in this
chapter if it conforms to the prescribed criteria.
      RURAL FARMSTEAD, TRADITIONAL. A single-family, detached residence on a
working farm, in addition to an existing primary residence occupied by the farm
owner and on the same parcel as such primary residence, for the use of the farm
family or the farm employees. The farmstead residence must conform to the
underlying zoning density and must be supported by a traditional septic tank
and required drainfields.
      SALTWATER INTRUSION. Displacement of fresh surface water or groundwater
by the advance of sea water, sometimes caused by overdraft of a well.
      SAND OR GRAVEL PIT. A surface mine or excavation process used to remove
sand, gravel or fill dirt for sale or off-site use. See QUARRY.
      SAND DUNES. Refer to definitions of COASTAL PRIMARY SAND DUNE and COASTAL
SECONDARY SAND DUNE in this chapter.
      SAWMILL, PERMANENT. A sawmill permanently located for the purpose of
processing timber from the property on which located, from adjoining property,
or from properties removed from the sawmill or its environs without regard to
place of origin. Such mill may or may not be held out for the processing of
timber bought or sold on a price basis.
      SAWMILL, TEMPORARY. A portable sawmill located on private property for
the processing of timber cut only from that property or from property
immediately contiguous and adjacent thereto and incidental processing of timber
transported from other property.
      SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL/TECHNICAL.  School offering instruction in non-
industrial trades for which specialized skills are required.
      SCHOOL OF SPECIAL INSTRUCTION. A school offering instruction or workshops
in traditional regional skills (e.g., decoy carving, net-mending, crab and eel
pot-making and mending, boat-building), or cultural, musical, dramatic,
culinary, or artistic subjects.
      SCREENED. Not enclosed within a building but screened from view by an
opaque vegetated buffer or opaque wall.
      SEMI-PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building designed for the use of the general
public or any segment of the general public which is owned and/or operated by a
nonprofit association.
      SETBACK. See YARD; the words SETBACK and YARD are interchangeable.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT. The process of removing contaminants from wastewater.
It may include physical, chemical, and biological processes to remove physical,
chemical, and biological contaminants, with the objective of producing treated
effluent and sludge (solid waste.)
      SHADOW FLICKER. The visible flicker effect when rotating turbine blades
cast shadows on the ground and nearby structures causing the repeating patterns
of light and shadow.
      SHARED SENIOR HOUSING. A residential building with 24-hour on-site
management, with separate sleeping quarters for up to six persons, 62 years of
age or over, who need minimal assistance with daily living activities, and have
no observed behavior indicative to mental illness, mental retardation, mental
impairment, substance abuse, behavior disorders, no sign of high risk behavior
and pose no health or safety threat to themselves or others. Accommodations may
include on-site food service or provide use of central food preparation
facility, and may provide common areas for the use of all residents but
provides no medical or other health care related services. Must conform to all
state licensing and Health Department regulations.
      SHOPPING CENTER. See COMMERCIAL CENTER.
      SHORELINE. The line where open tidal waters abut fastlands during mean
high water or where wetlands, beaches and sand dunes, as defined herein, abut
fastlands.
      SHORT TERM RENTAL UNIT. A dwelling unit or part thereof, intended for
occupancy or lodging purposes, in which accommodations are provided for a
period of fewer than 30 days to overnight guests for a fee, hosted or unhosted.
      SHRUB. Woody vegetation usually greater than three feet but less than 20
feet tall, including multi-stemmed, bushy shrubs and small trees.
      SIGN. Any display of any letters, words, numerals, figures, devices,
emblems, pictures or any parts of combination thereof, by any means whereby
such letters and the like are made visible for the purposes of making anything
known, whether such display be made on, attached to or as a part of a
structure, surface or any other thing, including, but not limited to, the
ground, a rock, a tree or other natural object, which display is visible beyond
the boundaries of the parcel of land on which the same is made.
      SIGN, AREA. The area of a sign shall be determined from its outside
measurements, including any wall work incidental to its decoration, but
excluding supports, unless such supports are used to attract attention. In the
case of a sign where lettering appears back-to-back, that is, on opposite sides
of the sign, the area shall be considered to be that of only one face. In the
case of an open sign made up of individual letters, figures, or designs, the
area shall be determined as if such display were made on a sign with straight
lines or circular sides.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign, one end of which is pointed, on which an arrow
is painted or otherwise indicates the direction to which attention is called,
not illuminated, four square feet or less in area, giving the name only of a
person, farm, business or other establishment.
      SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A type of sign that utilizes computer-
generated messages or some other electronic means of displaying and changing
copy or images. These signs include displays using incandescent lamps, light
emitting diodes (LEDs), liquid-crystal display (LCD), fiber optics, light
bulbs, plasma display screens or other illumination devices, or a series of
vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being rotated at
intervals that are used to change the messages, intensity of light or colors
displayed by such sign. The term shall not include signs on which lights or
other illumination devices display only the temperature or time of day in
alternating cycles or only motor vehicle fuel prices displayed continuously.
      SIGN, FEATHER. A lightweight, portable sign mounted along one edge on a
single, vertical, flexible pole the physical structure of which at may resemble
a sail, bow, or teardrop.
      SIGN, FREE STANDING. A sign located upon a lot, not attached to the main
building.
      SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. A sign not exceeding four square feet in area
directing attention to a service available on the premises, but which service
is clearly a secondary use of the dwelling.
      SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which identifies or otherwise describes the
name, ownership or location of a lot or parcel of land upon which it is
situated.
      SIGN, MINOR. A wall or freestanding sign not exceeding two and one-half
square foot in area, not exceeding four feet in height, and not illuminated.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building
structure or the ground.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A business sign erected, projecting perpendicularly to
the building wall surface to which it is attached, no part of which is more
than six feet from the wall surface of the building on which such sign is
erected.
      SILVICULTURE. Any forest management activity, including, but not limited
to, the harvesting of timber, the construction of roads and trails for the
forest management purposes and the preparation of property for reforestation.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A structure containing one dwelling unit intended
for occupancy by one family as defined in this section.
      SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A detailed, certified drawing indicating building
construction and land improvements, including landscape treatments and related
information required by this chapter.
      SITE WORK. The preparation of land for a specific use, which may include
clearing, grading, installing roads and utilities, bulkheading, fencing, and
landscaping.
      SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY. A facility that:
         (a)   Utilizes photovoltaic technology directly to convert solar
energy into electricity, consisting of an array of solar modules and other
accessory structures, the primary purpose of which is to provide for
electricity generation; components of such a facility may include, but are not
limited to, transformers, transmission facilities, supporting systems and any
and all components necessary for the generation, transmission and
interconnection and monitoring of the power generated; or
         (b)   Utilizes passive solar energy arrays for liquid transfer of heat
to use within buildings.
      SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY, LARGE SCALE. A photovoltaic solar energy facility,
the primary purpose of which is to generate and sell electricity. A LARGE-SCALE
SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY consists of a series of ground-mounted panels and
appurtenant transmission facilities. Components of such a facility may include,
but are not limited to, transformers, transmission facilities, supporting
systems, and any and all components necessary for the generation, transmission,
interconnection, and monitoring of the power generated.
      SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY, SMALL SYSTEM. A photovoltaic or passive solar
energy conversion system primarily for onsite use and consumption. A SMALL-
SYSTEM SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY is considered an accessory use and may be either
roof-mounted or ground-mounted. A building-integrated solar energy system or a
passive solar energy system as defined herein shall be considered a small-
system solar energy facility.
      SOLAR MODULE. A device that converts energy from the sun's rays into
electric current.
      SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without
creating nuisance or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing the
principles of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical
volume, and to cover it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day's
operation or at such more frequent intervals as may be necessary.
      SPECIAL USE. A use of land authorized by a special use permit issued by
the Board of Supervisors as a legislative action pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-
2286(3). The definition of SPECIAL USE shall be interpreted to include special
exception, conditional use or use permit.
      SPECIALTY FOOD PRODUCTION.  Creation of limited production, artisanal
food products; may include some retail area and shipping capacity.
      SPECIFICATIONS. A detailed, precise presentation of the materials and
procedures to be employed in the construction of all physical improvements
required by the applicable ordinances of the county.
      STORE. See RETAIL STORES AND SHOPS.
      STORY. That portion of a building, other than the basement, including
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it. If
there be no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
      STREET. A strip of land intended primarily for vehicular traffic and
providing the principal means of access to property. A street includes, but is
not limited to, a lane, drive, avenue, highway, or other thoroughfare.
      STREET (ARTERIAL). A highway utilized primarily as a supplement to, and
as an extension of, the interstate highway system, defined in the Virginia
State Highway Commission Standards as an arterial highway. A minimum right-of-
way of 100 feet is required.
      STREET (COLLECTOR). A street that carries or is anticipated to carry a
volume of through traffic exceeding 400 vehicles per day, the right-of-way of
which shall not be less than 50 feet nor more than 80 feet depending upon
existing or anticipated traffic volume.
      STREET (PRIMARY). A street or highway anticipated to carry a volume of
traffic exceeding 3,000 vehicles per day, designed and maintained as a part of
the Virginia Primary System, the right-of-way of which shall not be less than
80 feet or more than 160 feet.
      STREET (PRIVATE). A street which affords principal means of access to
abutting property and encompassed by a right-of-way dedicated to public use and
maintained by a private corporation or adjacent landowners within the platted
subdivision, constructed to standards adopted by the county. The right-of-way
shall not be less than 50 feet.
      STREET (PUBLIC). A street which affords principal means of access to
abutting property and encompassed by a right-of-way dedicated to public use and
maintained by the Commonwealth as a part of the state primary or secondary road
system. The right-of-way shall not be less than 50 feet.
      STREET (SERVICE DRIVE). A public or private right-of-way, generally
parallel with and contiguous to a major highway, primarily designed to promote
safety by eliminating pernicious ingress and egress to a major highway by
providing safe and orderly points of access to the major highway.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. This includes, among other things, dwellings and
buildings, and this does not include signs.
      SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION. As referenced in the Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation District, the expansion or modification of a building or
development that would result in a disturbance of land exceeding an area of
2,500 square feet.
      SUPERVISED LIVING RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A licensed assisted living
facility for adults who may have physical or mental impairments and require
only minimal assistance with activities of daily living. They may include
individuals who are dependent on medication administration as documented on a
uniform assessment instrument. This definition includes the services provided
by independent living facilities that voluntarily become licensed.
      SURVEYOR, LAND. A person who is recognized by the state and who is
registered with the Virginia Department of Professional and Occupational
Registration (DOPR) as a "registered land surveyor."
      TAXIDERMY SERVICES. Preserving and preparing the skins of birds, fish,
and other animals and stuffing and mounting them in a lifelike manner.
      TAXIDERMY SHOP. An establishment for the preservation/mounting of animal,
fish, and bird specimens; may include sale of supplies and finished products.
      TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable residential
structure, providing an environment facilitating a caregiver's provision of
care for a mentally or physically impaired person that is primarily assembled
at a location other than its site of installation and is limited to one
occupant who shall be the mentally or physically impaired person. The structure
shall be no larger than 300 gross square feet and shall comply with all
applicable building codes, including, but not limited to, Industrialized
Building Safety Law and the Uniform Statewide Building Code. The structure
shall not be placed on a permanent foundation.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING FOR MIGRANT AGRICULTURAL WORKERS. One or more permanent
buildings to be used as temporary living quarters for one or more migrant
workers employed in production agricultural work as described in VA Code § 3.2-
300 and as defined by the term AGRICULTURE in this section. Not intended for
use as permanent, year-round single- or multi-unit residential occupancy.
      THEATRE, INDOOR. A building designed and/or used primarily for the
commercial exhibition of motion pictures to the general public or used for
performance of plays, acts and dramas by actors and/or actresses.
      TIDAL SHORE (SHORELINE). The line where open tidal waters, at mean sea
level, and/or vegetated wetlands, beach area or primary dunes, where they
exist, abut uplands.
      TIDAL WETLANDS. Vegetated and nonvegetated wetlands as defined in VA Code
§ 28.2-1300.
      TOURISM OFFICE. A staffed facility for distributing print material and
information to tourists and other visitors; may assist with lodging and dining
reservations and provide restroom facilities.
      TOWNHOUSE, ROWHOUSE, OR SIDE-BY-SIDE DWELLING. A specific arrangement of
three to five attached dwelling units, whether or not part of the same
structure, each occupied by a separate family and having the following specific
characteristics: each unit has its own access to the outside, roof, not more
than two of any five units have the same exterior architectural facade and
treatment of materials, and not more than three abutting units having the same
front and rear setbacks with a minimum offset of one foot.
      TRACTOR PULL. A staged event, which features standard, unmodified farm
tractors towing weighted sledges or other objects, for public entertainment or
fund-raising.
      TRAILER, BUSINESS OFFICE. An industrialized unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets and highways on its own wheels or
on a flatbed and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as an office
complete and ready for occupancy except for minor or incidental unpacking and
assembly operation, located on jacks or a foundation, connected to utilities.
      TRAILER, TRAVEL AND RECREATION.  A mobile unit less than 29 feet in
length and less than 4,500 pounds in weight which is designed for temporary
human habitation.
      TRIBUTARY STREAM. Any perennial stream that is so depicted on the most
recent U.S. Geological Survey 7½ minute topographic quadrangle map (scale 1:
24,000).
      TRUCK STOP, TRUCK PLAZA. A facility intended to provide full services to
the trucking industry, including, but not limited to the following activities:
dispensing of fuel, repair shops, automated washes, restaurants and motels, and
overnight parking.
      UNDERSTORY TREE. Any and all trees in the intermediate stratum of
vegetation between canopy trees and shrubs, usually over 20 feet tall at
maturity.
      UPLANDS. Land areas which have no evidence of wetlands characteristics.
      USE.  The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon
is designated, arranged or intended and for which it is or may be used,
occupied or maintained.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate use, customarily incidental to and located
upon the same lot occupied by the main use.
      UTILITIES, PUBLIC. The use of land for public utility purposes by an
entity providing pipeline, gas, electrical, communications, and water and/or
sewage service that is subject to the jurisdiction of the State Corporation
Commission.
      UTILITIES, PUBLIC, CLASS A. Facilities necessary to support development
in a local area. Included in this type are facilities such as power lines;
transformers; relay and booster devices; telephone electronics cabinets;
broadband infrastructure, storm drainage facilities; distribution facilities
for oil, propane, and natural gas; well, water, and sewer pump stations;
electric substations that are screened by trees or shrubs that are at least
eight feet in height, operate at a voltage of less than 150 kilovolts, and are
located in any zoning districts other than residential districts or in existing
subdivisions; and monopole transmission structures less than 150 kilovolts.
      UTILITIES, PUBLIC, CLASS B. Facilities serving a region, such as
microwave substations; radio/television antennas; power transmission lines that
require support structures consisting of two or more legs which are tied
together by solid braces or exceed 150 kilovolts; electric stations or
switching facilities with voltage in excess of 150 kilovolts; generating
facilities; natural gas, oil, and propane transmission pipelines; water storage
tanks; solid waste disposal or processing; community sewage or wastewater
treatment plants.
      VALUE ADDED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Any product that is produced as an
incident of an agricultural operation and made using an agricultural product(s)
such as honey, maple syrup, breads, jams, jellies, preserves, relishes, juices,
cider, milk, ice cream, peanut butter and cheese.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
relaxation shall not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces;
establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance.
      VERANDAH. An open porch, usually roofed, extending along the outside of a
building.
      VESTED RIGHTS. As set forth in VA Code § 15.2-2307.
      WATER BODY. Any temporary or permanent natural or man-made catchment,
which, by its nature or construction, contains water (e.g., ponds, best
management practices facilities, and perennial ditches).
      WATER BODY WITH PERENNIAL FLOW. A body of water that flows in a natural
or man-made channel year-round during a year of normal precipitation. This
includes but is not limited to streams, estuaries, and tidal embayments, and
may include drainage ditches or channels constructed in wetlands or from former
natural drainage ways, which convey perennial flow. Lakes and ponds through
which a perennial stream flows are part of the perennial stream. Generally, the
water table is located above the streambed for most of the year, and
groundwater is the primary source for stream flow.
       WATER-DEPENDENT FACILITY. A development of land that cannot exist
outside the resource protection area and must be located on the shoreline by
reason of the intrinsic nature of its operation. These facilities include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Ports;
         (b)   The intake and outfall structures of power plants, water
treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and storm sewers;
         (c)    Marinas and other boat docking structures;
         (d)   Beaches and other public water- oriented, recreation areas;
         (e)   Fisheries or other marine resource facilities; and
         (f)   Aquaculture and aquacultural facilities and essential accessory
uses and structures when it is demonstrated through the required Water Quality
Impact Analysis that such accessory uses and structures will not create water
quality impairments in the adjacent body.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a stream,
creek, pond or other body of water.
      WATERTABLE. The upper surface of the free groundwater in a zone of
saturation except when separated by an underlying of groundwater by unsaturated
material.
      WETLANDS. See TIDAL AND NONTIDAL WETLANDS.
      WIND ENERGY FACILITY. An electricity-generating facility consisting of
one or more wind turbines, utility scale or large scale, under common ownership
or operating control that includes substations, cables/wires, foundations,
access roads, crane platforms and other building accessories to such facility,
whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site customers.
      WIND ENERGY TEST FACILITY. An electricity-generating facility consisting
of one or more wind turbines, utility scale or large scale, under common
ownership or operating control that includes substations, cables/wires,
foundations, access roads, crane platforms and other building accessories and
any testing equipment, such as but not limited to, METMASTS to such facility,
whose main purpose is to test and certify new wind turbines.
      WIND TOWER. The structure on which the wind system turbine is mounted.
      WIND TOWER HEIGHT. The height above grade of the fixed portion of the
tower, excluding the rotor blades.
      WIND TURBINE. A structure that converts wind energy into electricity
through the use of a wind turbine generator, along with its associated rotors,
blades, tower, wiring and pad transformer.
      WIND TURBINE, LARGE SCALE.  A wind turbine with a rated capacity of
greater than 100 kW but less than one MW (primarily used for on-site
utilization of electricity).
      WIND TURBINE, UTILITY SCALE. A wind turbine with a rated capacity of one
MW or greater.
      WIND TURBINE HEIGHT.  The highest point, above ground level, reached by
the highest vertical extension of the blade plus the wind tower height.
      WINDMILL. A machine designed to convert the energy of the wind into more
useful forms using rotating blades to turn mechanical machinery to do physical
work, such as crushing grain or pumping water. A windmill is not a wind energy
conversion system.
      WORKFORCE HOUSING. Housing which is accessible to households whose
primary source of reported income is from employment and whose income ranges
between the weekly income available from minimum-wage salaries and the weekly
income available from the current "average wage" salary as defined for
Northampton County by the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
      WORKING WATERFRONT USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS. Commercial and public
uses that depend upon water to function and are located on, over or adjacent to
or have direct access to a body of water such as, but not limited to, fishing,
aquaculture, docks, wharfs, boat ramps, marinas, marine transportation,
shipping, ports, harbors, as opposed to a use that may be enhanced by water
such as, but not limited to, restaurants and housing.
      WORKING WATERFRONT SUPPORT USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS. Uses,
structures and buildings that supply necessary services to the working
waterfront such as, but not limited to, boat building, repair, storage and
hauling, seafood grading, packaging, processing and sales and marine equipment
sales and storage.
      YARD. A minimum distance between a building or use and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied or unobstructed by any portion of a structure or use from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard or the depth of a rear yard,
the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the building shall be
used. The words YARD and SETBACK are interchangeable.
      YARD, FRONT. The minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way
line and the building or any projection thereof other than steps or unenclosed
porches, and extending between the two side lot lines.
      YARD, REAR. The yard between the rear of the building and the lot line
most nearly parallel thereto and extending across the rear of the lot between
the side lot lines.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side of the building and the lot line most
nearly parallel thereto and extending from the required front yard to the
required rear yard.
      ZERO LOT LINE. A common lot line on which the wall of a structure may be
constructed on each side of the line.
      ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT. An arrangement of housing on adjoining lots in
which the required side yard offset is reduced on one side and increased on the
other side so that the sum of the offsets on any lot is no less than the sum of
the required offsets.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR or THE ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of
Northampton County and of any incorporated towns under the jurisdiction of this
chapter and her/his designee; the administrative officer designated to
administer the zoning ordinance and issue zoning permits and approvals, as well
as his/her designated agent(s).
      ZONING DISTRICT, FLOATING. An unmapped zoning district where all the zone
requirements are contained in this chapter and the zone is fixed on the Zoning
District Map only when an application for development meeting the zone
requirements is approved by the Board of Supervisors as an amendment to this
chapter.
      ZONING DISTRICT, OVERLAY. A special purpose zoning district which
overlays and supplements the primary and/or secondary zoning districts and
which modifies or supplements the regulations thereof to achieve the special
development objectives set forth in the Overlay Zoning District.
      ZONING DISTRICT, PRINCIPAL.  A specifically delineated area within
Northampton County, Virginia, within which the regulations governing the use of
land, buildings and structures are designed to achieve a specific purpose of
the district and the Comprehensive Plan. Unless modified by a secondary zoning
district or an overlay zoning district, the requirements of the principal
zoning district governing the use of land and buildings and the extent of such
use shall apply uniformly to all uses and structures throughout the district.
      ZONING DISTRICT, SECONDARY. A district further dividing a principal
zoning district with separate regulations governing the use of land, buildings
and structures; the height of buildings or structures; and the size of yards.
The requirements of the secondary zoning district are intended to apply
uniformly to all uses and structures throughout the district.
      ZONING DISTRICT MAP. A map or maps of the County of Northampton which are
adopted as part of the zoning ordinance and which delineate the boundaries of
all zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-2017;
Am. Ord. passed 2-3-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed 8-14-2018; Am Ord. 2018-05,
passed 4-9-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-11-2020; Am. Ord. passed 5-10-2022;
Am. Ord. passed 2-13-2024; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-2024;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2024)
§ 154.2.004 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Repeal of conflicting ordinances. When provisions of this chapter are
adopted or amended, they shall supersede and repeal any conflicting provisions
previously adopted.
   (B)   Conflict with other county ordinances.  Whenever this chapter is at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted county, state, or
federal statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances, the most stringent of the
applicable provisions shall govern.
   (C)   No county guarantees of development suitability. The zoning of any
land and/or the granting of any permit or certificate for the use of land and/
or structures shall not be interpreted as a guarantee or assurance or any kind
by Northampton County of the suitability of such land or structure for
development or use.
   (D)   Severability clause. Should any section or provision of this chapter
be declared by a court to be unconstitutional or invalid, it is the legislative
intent of the Board of Supervisors that such decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole or any other part thereof other than that
part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
   (E)   Nonexclusionary intent. It is not the intent of this chapter to
exclude any economic, racial, religious or ethnic group from enjoyment or
residence, land ownership or tenancy within the county; nor is it the intent of
this chapter to use public powers in any way to promote the separation within
the county of economic, racial, religious or ethnic groups.
   (F)   Territory affected. This chapter shall apply to all lands, wetlands,
islands, dunes and water areas within Northampton County, but not including the
lands, wetlands, islands, dunes and water areas tying within the corporate
limits of the county's municipalities unless a municipality has adopted this
chapter and by resolution requested Northampton County to exercise zoning
control over its incorporated area and the Board of Supervisors, by resolution,
has accepted such authority, in which case this chapter shall also apply to all
lands, wetlands, islands and water areas within the requesting municipality.
   (G)   Policy of county relating to homes for certain handicapped persons. It
shall be the policy of Northampton County that physically handicapped, mentally
ill, mentally retarded, and/or other developmentally disabled persons should
not be excluded from the benefits of normal residential surroundings consistent
with the regulations set forth herein and in VA Code § 15.2-2291, as amended.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
ZONING ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE ESTABLISHED
§ 154.2.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Office of Zoning Administrator is hereby established, subject to
the following:
   The Zoning Administrator shall have all necessary authority on behalf of the
governing body to administer and enforce the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Inspection warrants. The Zoning Administrator or his/her agent may
present sworn testimony to a magistrate or court of competent jurisdiction and
if such sworn testimony establishes probable cause that a violation of this
chapter has occurred, request that the magistrate or court grant the Zoning
Administrator or his/her agent an inspection warrant to enter a dwelling,
structure, building or upon land for the purpose of determining whether
violations of this chapter exist. The Zoning Administrator or his/her agent
shall make a reasonable effort to obtain consent from the owner or tenant of
the dwelling, structure, building or land before seeking the issuance of an
inspection warrant under this section.
    (C)   Administration for the purpose of this chapter is defined to be that
person who shall be the primary source of information for service to the
public, explaining the zoning ordinance in detail to those who seek to take
actions within the allowable limits of the ordinance, assisting with presenting
proposed changes to the ordinance and assisting citizens who apply for
exceptions to the ordinance.
   (D)   The authority to enforce the zoning ordinance includes:
      (1)    Enforcing this chapter and the official zoning map;
      (2)   Enforcing compliance on any matters arising under this chapter,
including but not limited to, how a building, structure or use should be
classified, explaining to the public what uses are permitted within a
particular zoning district and why, whether a proposed building or structure
complies with setback, height, bulk or other requirements, whether a building,
structure, use or lot is nonconforming, and whether a lot meets minimum lot
size requirements;
      (3)   Ordering in writing the remedying of any use or structure
determined to be in violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2311, any written notice of a zoning
violation or written order of the Zoning Administrator shall include a
statement informing the recipient that he may have a right to appeal the notice
of a zoning violation or a written order within 30 days to the Board of Zoning
Appeals. A copy of all written notices shall be provided to the Chairman of the
Board of Supervisors;
      (5)   Insuring compliance with this chapter if necessary, by initiating
legal action through the County attorney, including an action for injunction,
abatement, civil penalties or other appropriate action proceeding subject to
appeal as provided by VA Code § 15.2-2311 and this chapter;
      (6)   In specific cases, making findings of fact and, with concurrence if
the county attorney, conclusions of law regarding determinations of rights
under VA Code §§ 15.2-2307 and 15.2-2311(C).
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.021 SITE PLAN REVIEW AGENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Director of Planning and Zoning, or his/her designated agent, is hereby
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County as the Board's
agent for the administration of the site plan review section of this chapter.
The scope of the agent's authority includes the review, processing and
approval/disapproval of site plans pursuant to standards given in §§
154.2.040 et seq.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.022 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AUTHORIZED.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established pursuant to VA Code §
15.2-2308, as amended, with the powers and duties as defined in §§
154.2.225 et seq.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.023 HISTORIC PROTECTION REVIEW.
   The Historic Review Board is established pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2306, as
amended, with the powers and duties as defined in the Historic District
regulations located in §
154.2.161.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.024 FILING FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall establish a schedule of fees and
charges related to applications for variances, amendments, appeals, site plan
reviews, and other matters pertaining to this chapter.
   (B)   Such schedule shall be available to the public to examine and may be
amended from time to time only by action of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.025 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   All departments, officials and public employees of Northampton County which
are vested with the duty and/or authority to issue permits, licenses and/or
other approvals shall conform to the provisions of this chapter. Any permit
issued in conflict with the provisions herein shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.026 APPEALS.
   (A)   To the Board of Zoning Appeals: Any person, officer, board,
commission, or agency aggrieved by a decision, order, requirement or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or any other officers, department or
board of Northampton County in the administration or enforcement of this
chapter may appeal such decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance
with the provisions in §§
154.2.225 et seq., and Virginia state law.
   (B)   To the Circuit Court: Any person, officer, board, commission, or
agency allegedly aggrieved by a decision, order, requirement or determination
of the Board of Zoning Appeals or the Board of Supervisors may be allowed to
appeal such decision to the Circuit Court of Northampton County, Virginia, in
the manner prescribed by Virginia Code. See §§
154.2.042,
154.2.043,
154.2.160,
154.2.163,
154.2.230.
   (C)   To the Board of Supervisors: Any landowner, zoning applicant, officer,
board, commission, or agency aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning
Administrator made pursuant to the administration and/or enforcement of
conditions attached to a rezoning or zoning map amendment may petition the
Board of Supervisors for review of the decision. See §§
154.2.044,
154.2.160.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
§ 154.2.040 ZONING CLEARANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to change the use of land or structures or to
alter or erect structures until a zoning clearance is approved by and obtained
from the Zoning Administrator except for certain very-low-impact uses as
indicated in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for the zoning
clearance and approve it before the clearance is issued. When a building permit
involving either change of use or change in building area is required, the
application for zoning clearance shall be incorporated with the building permit
and the Zoning Administrator shall approve the zoning clearance before such
permit is issued. Where site plan review is required, the application for
zoning clearance shall be incorporated into the application for site plan
review, in which case the requirements for site plan review in this chapter
shall apply. The intent of the zoning clearance is to ensure that land,
structures and uses of land and structures are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Application for zoning clearance. An application for zoning
clearance shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the landowner and the
applicant;
         (b)   Signature of the applicant attesting to the truth of all
information required and contained therein, and attesting to the knowledge and
consent of the landowner to file the application. If the landowner is not an
applicant, the landowner must still provide written consent to the application;
         (c)   Zoning district(s);
         (d)   Two plans or sketches, drawn to scale, showing lot dimensions,
location and size of existing and proposed structures and uses, yard
dimensions, easements and street and highway rights-of-way; and
         (e)   Such other information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator in order for him/her to determine conformity with this chapter.
      (2)   Approval of zoning clearance. Within 30 days of receipt of the
application, the Zoning Administrator shall approve or disapprove the
application. One copy of the plan, sketch, or site plan shall be returned to
the applicant along with the zoning clearance or a written denial and reasons
for denial. Zoning clearances incorporated into building permits and/or site
plan review approvals shall expire in the same manner and time frame as
building permits and/or site plan approvals. If a zoning clearance is approved
for a particular use of a property and that use changes, the new use is
required to fully comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.041 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy required. No change in the use or occupancy
of any existing building (except for an existing single-family dwelling) may be
made, nor may any new building or dwelling be occupied for any purpose until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Administrator and the
Building Official. Every certificate of occupancy must state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of the ordinance.
   (B)   Records. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on
file in the office of the Building Official.
   (C)   Notification of legal nonconformity. The Zoning Administrator may make
inspections to identify lawful nonconforming uses; to notify in writing the
owner(s) and/or occupant(s) that the building or land they occupy is a lawful
nonconforming use; and if so determined to advise them of their right to
continue the lawful nonconforming use and the conditions thereof or that their
use is in violation of the chapter; and/or upon application, to issue a zoning
clearance for the lawful nonconforming use.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.042 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors may, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, and after proper notice and a public hearing, grant a
special use permit where such special use or structure is permitted by the
terms of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may grant, deny, or grant conditionally the
permit. The special use permit may be granted along with safeguards,
requirements, and conditions which may be imposed. The permit shall state
whether it is issued to the applicant or whether it is issued for the use on
the site and runs with the land. There shall be two types of special use
permits: major special use permits and minor special use permits.
      (1)   Procedure. An application for a special use permit (major or minor)
may be submitted by the property owner, or the contract owner, optionee, or
lessee of the property affected with the owner's written and notarized consent.
Procedures for application and review shall be as follows:
         (a)   Major special use permits. When a major special use permit
application is submitted, one copy of each of the following items must be
submitted in conjunction with the application before it can be accepted:   
            1.   The legal description of the property for which the special
use permit is requested, as well as the names of all owners of the properties
involved.
            2.   A conceptual plan showing the property drawn at a scale with
sufficient references to existing streets and surrounding properties. The plan
must show accurate locations and dimensions of on-site and adjacent features
and must include:
               a.   A scale and north arrow;
               b.    Required setbacks for the proposed use and any proposed
structures as measured from property lines and/or easements;
               c.   A separate conceptual grading plan of the site with
drainage features, soils, soil types, and flow arrows;
               d.    Water bodies, wetlands, and Chesapeake Bay Preservation
features including the 100-foot buffer;
               e.    Existing and proposed sewage disposal systems and water
supply;
               f.    Open space areas and/or landscaping as required by this
chapter;
               g.    Existing and proposed buildings and uses, showing square
footage of each use;
               h.    Existing and proposed streets, roads and/or rights-of-way,
accessibility features and pedestrian walkways with applicable setbacks as
required by this chapter;
               i.    Parking areas with appropriate dimensions detailing
individual spaces and with applicable setbacks as required by this chapter; and
               j.   Any performance standards or requirements imposed by other
sections of this chapter.
            3.   Any other studies or documents as required by the Zoning
Administrator or other designated staff for the proposed application and any
existing permits or encumbrances, such as easements/rights-of-way, attached and
recorded with the parcel.
            4.   A completed application for major special use permit, on forms
provided by the Zoning Administrator, including payment of the review fee.
            5.   The most recently recorded plat of the parcel(s) comprising
the proposed project, or a boundary survey if a portion of one or more parcels
composes the proposed project, both of which shall include metes and bounds
description of the boundaries.
            6.   A written Statement of Justification and narrative for the
application. The Statement of Justification shall address the guidelines set
forth in division (B) (4) below as applicable. The narrative must include a
project overview and a summary of the concepts behind the project.
         (b)   Minor special use permits. When a minor special use permit
application is submitted, the following items must be submitted in conjunction
with the application before it can be accepted.
            1.   One copy of a legal description of the property for which the
special use permit is requested, as well as the names of all owners of the
properties involved.
            2.   One copy of an accurately scaled drawing showing the property
drawn at a scale with sufficient references to existing streets and
subdivisions to enable the property to be located on county maps. The drawing
must show:
               a.   The locations and distances to water bodies and Chesapeake
Bay Preservation features;
               b.   Soil types;
               c.    Open space areas;
               d.   The locations, names, route numbers, and distances to
existing and proposed on-site and adjacent streets, roads, and rights-of-way;
               e.   The locations of the existing and proposed sewage disposal
systems and water supply;
               f.   The locations and distances to existing and proposed
buildings, structures, and uses;
               g.   The signature of the applicant attesting that what is shown
thereon is true and accurate, complies with all applicable zoning ordinance
requirements or that the application would necessitate modifications or
exceptions of certain regulations to gain approval, along with a list fully
identifying all exceptions or modifications needed.
            3.   The names and addresses of the property owners abutting the
application property and across the street from it, and the county tax parcel
numbers of those properties.
            4.   A completed application for minor special use permit on forms
provided by the Zoning Administrator, including payment of the review fee.
            5.   A written Statement of Justification for the application
addressing the guidelines set forth in division (B) (4) below to the extent
possible.
      (2)   County staff review process. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
all special use permit applications (major and minor) to the Director of
Planning and Zoning who shall review the application and the comments made
regarding the application by other agencies and formulate a recommendation to
the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. If necessary to fully
review the application, the Director of Planning and Zoning is authorized to
ask for additional information from the applicant.
         (a)   The Director of Planning and Zoning shall be responsible for
sending out any written notice required for the public hearings of the Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors.
         (b)   At least 15 days before the date of the public hearings before
the Planning Commission and the Board, a notice shall be posted of the public
hearing on the land or building involved in any application. The notice shall
be prepared by the Department of Planning and Zoning and contain, at a minimum,
the date, location and time of the public hearing, the nature of the proposed
change, the name of the applicant and the application number. County staff
shall post a notice of pending zoning action on the subject property that is
visible from the public right-of-way.
            1.   The Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors shall hold
public hearings after notice in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2204, according
to a schedule to be established by the Board of Supervisors. This schedule
shall include county matters.
            2.   The Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors will review
the recommendation of the Director of Planning and Zoning, and/or any other
report and/or pertinent information regarding the application, and may visit
the site and/or meet with the applicant.
            3.    After its public hearing the Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the Board of Supervisors regarding the application. The
failure of the Planning Commission to report 100 days after the first meeting
of the Commission at which the application is considered shall be deemed
approval, unless the application has been withdrawn by the applicant prior to
the expiration of the time period. After its public hearing, the Board of
Supervisors will make a decision on the application and promptly notify the
applicant of its decision in writing.
      (3)   Development conditions. In conjunction with the approval of a
special use permit (major or minor), the Board of Supervisors may impose
conditions, limitations or other special safeguards and requirements as are
reasonably necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare, such as,
but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Restricting noise, smoke, dust, vibration, odors, wastes or
other elements that may affect abutting or adjacent properties;
         (b)   Establishing greater setbacks (side, front, and rear) or other
requirements necessary for orderly use and/or expansion and for preventing
traffic congestion;
         (c)   Providing for adequate parking and ingress and egress to public
streets and roads necessary to prevent traffic congestion;
         (d)   Providing adjoining property with a buffer fence or line of
evergreens or shield from view of the proposed use and/or structure;
         (e)   Establishing a period of time, not to exceed 18 months, during
which the new special use must begin and after which the permit shall no longer
be valid, if the special use has not begun;
         (f)   Requiring a bond, in a reasonable amount determined by and
payable to the Board of Supervisors, to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of any special use permit;
         (g)   Establishing hours of operation or specific time limits for the
special permit use.
      (4)   Special use permit approval guidelines.  Uses permitted by special
use permit (major or minor), as listed in the zoning district provided for,
shall be permitted only upon the obtaining of a special use permit from the
Board of Supervisors, and subject to all other applicable provisions of the
chapter. The Board of Supervisors may issue a permit for such use if the
following criteria are adequately addressed:
         (a)   The proposed use and/or structure are allowed under the district
regulations or elsewhere in this chapter;
         (b)   The proposed use and/or structure complies with the regulations
governing individual special uses;
         (c)   The proposed use and/or structure are consistent with the
county’s Comprehensive Plan;
         (d)   The proposed use and/or structure will not change the character
of the neighborhood, area, or district in which it will be located;
         (e)   The proposed use and/or structure, and accompanying parcel
development, are in harmony with the uses permitted by right in the zoning
district and with the intent of the zoning district regulations and will not
adversely affect the use of neighboring property or impair the value thereof;
         (f)   The proposed use and/or structure will not be hazardous or
injurious to or in conflict with the character of the neighborhood considering
the size and location of the use, the nature and intensity of the operation
involved or conducted in connection with it, its site layout, and its relation
to roads giving access to it;
         (g)   The proposed use and/or structure will not adversely affect the
health and safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the
proposed use;
         (h)   The proposed use and/or structure will not be detrimental to
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood;
         (i)   The proposed use and/or structure will protect and not cause
damage to the county’s fresh water aquifer and water quality (including
groundwater);
         (j)   The application, along with the development conditions and
safeguards imposed, adequately mitigates the impacts of the proposed use and/or
structure; and
         (k)    The proposed use and/or structure will otherwise be in accord
with the provisions of the chapter.
      (5)   Effect of approval. The issuance of a special use permit (major or
minor) shall authorize the applicant to construct only such structure(s), and/
or conduct only such use(s), as are specifically authorized by the special use
permit. Any deviation, expansion, or other changes whatsoever are in violation
of the permit and this chapter, are prohibited, and shall require that the
applicant reapply for and gain approval of a new special use permit before such
deviation, expansion, or other changes are lawful.
      (6)   Resubmission of applications. A property owner or other applicant
who has filed for a special use permit (major or minor) may not submit
substantially the same application for a special use permit within a period of
12 months from the date of the original denial by the Board of Supervisors.
      (7)   Appeals. Any action contesting the decision of the Board approving
or failing to approve a proposed special use permit shall be filed within 30
days of the decision with the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2017; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-2020)
§ 154.2.043 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amending the zoning ordinance text or zoning map.
      (1)   General requirements, intent, and factors to be considered.
         (a)   Whenever the public necessity, convenience or general welfare or
good zoning practice justifies such action, and after consideration and
recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors may, by
ordinance, change the text regulations set forth in this chapter and/or the
official zoning map of the county.
         (b)   In the process of reviewing and considering proposed zoning text
and/or map amendments, reasonable consideration shall be given to the
applicable factors in VA Code §§ 15.2-2283 and 15.2-2284. Also in reviewing and
considering proposed zoning map amendment(s), the proffers offered by an
applicant shall be considered, so long as they were submitted in a timely
manner and submitted in proper form.
      (2)   Receipt of application.
         (a)   A proposed change of zoning district boundaries or proposed
change in the text of the ordinance may be initiated by one of the following
methods:
            1.   By resolution of the Board of Supervisors;
            2.   By motion of the Planning Commission; or
            3.   By petition addressed to the Board of Supervisors of a
property owner, or contract purchaser with the owners' written and notarized
consent, or of the owners' agent, of the property which is the subject of the
proposed zoning map amendment.
         (b)   An application must be submitted in writing, on county-prepared
forms, to the Zoning Administrator. The application must be accompanied by the
documents specified as "Documents to be Submitted" below in this chapter. All
information provided by the applicant must be true and accurate.
   (B)   Analysis and processing of application.
      (1)   After receiving the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
first determine if all of the submission requirements of this section have been
met. Should additional information be required to satisfy the adopted minimum
submission requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall inform the applicant
within seven business days after receipt that the application is rejected until
such time as the submission requirements are satisfied and identify which
requirements have not been met.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application satisfying all adopted submission
requirements, the Zoning Administrator will submit the application to the
Director of Planning and Zoning.
      (3)   The Director of Planning and Zoning shall notify, in writing, the
applicant, the Chairperson of the Planning Commission, and the Chairperson of
the Board of Supervisors that the application has been received and judged to
have met the minimum submission requirements to allow further processing.
Conformance with the adopted minimum submission requirements does not mean that
the application is in conformance with all applicable chapter requirements.
      (4)   The Director of Planning and Zoning, on behalf of the Board of
Supervisors, will notify the applicant, the Planning Commission and the Board
of Supervisors of the proposed dates for the public hearings on the application
before the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. The Planning
Commission shall hold its public hearing and take action on the application
within 100 days of its first meeting following notification of application
acceptance by the Zoning Administrator. The Board of Supervisors shall act on
the application within a reasonable time not to exceed 12 months of acceptance.
The applicant may consent to the extension of these time frames. Both the
Commission and the Board may ask for additional information from the applicant
during their reviews of the application.
      (5)   The Director of Planning and Zoning shall also provide other
appropriate agencies with copies of the application and other pertinent
documents to allow them to comment on the application.
      (6)   At the option of the Planning Commission, the Commission may
arrange with the applicant to have an informal briefing on the project for the
Planning Commission prior to the required public hearing.
      (7)   In consultation with the Chairpersons of the Planning Commission
and of the Board of Supervisors, the Director of Planning and Zoning shall
establish the actual dates for public hearings before the Commission and Board
and coordinate for legal notice of the public hearings before the Commission
and Board, and coordinate the legal notice of the public hearings before the
Commission and Board.
      (8)   The Director of Planning and Zoning shall prepare an analysis of
the proposed application and prepare a written report to the Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors giving the staff findings and
recommendations concerning the proposal prior to the public hearings, including
the comments and conclusion of other agencies reviewing the application.
   (C)   Consideration of application by the Planning Commission. After public
notice has been given in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2204, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment. Failure of
the Planning Commission to submit its recommendation regarding the application
100 days after the first meeting of the Planning Commission after the proposed
amendment has been referred to the Planning Commission, or such shorter period
as may be prescribed by the governing body, shall be deemed approval, unless
the proposed amendment has been withdrawn by the applicant prior to the
expiration of the time period.
   (D)   Consideration of application by the Board of Supervisors. The Board of
Supervisors shall consider the proposed amendment after notice and public
hearing in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2204. The Board of Supervisors and
the Planning Commission may hold a joint public hearing, in which case the
public notice may be handled and published concurrently.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors may take up to one year from the date that
the Zoning Administrator determines that the application met all adopted
submission requirements in which to make its decision regarding the proposed
amendment. Additional time may be taken when authorized by state law.
      (2)   After its public hearing, the Board of Supervisors may make
appropriate changes or corrections in the proposed amendment, however, under no
circumstances shall no additional land be rezoned, or a more intensive
classification be approved, than was contained in the public notice required by
VA Code § 15.2-2204.
      (3)   Each motion of intent to amend by the Board of Supervisors shall
state the public purpose of the amendment as required by VA Code § 15.2-2286.
   (E)   Reconsideration of applications. A property owner or other applicant
to amend this chapter may not submit substantially the same application for
amendment within a period of 12 months from the date of the original denial by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Withdrawal of rezoning applications/ petitions. An applicant for
rezoning may withdraw the application/petition from consideration at any time
prior to the Board of Supervisors action without prejudice to being able to
refile the same or a similar application within one year.
   (G)   Conflict of interest. An application brought by a property owner,
contract purchaser, or the agent thereof shall be sworn to under oath before a
notary public or other official before whom oaths may be taken, stating whether
or not:
      (1)   Any member of the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors
has any interest in such property, either individually, by ownership of stock
in a corporation owning such land or partnership; or
      (2)   Whether a member of the immediate household of any member of the
Commission or governing body has any such interest.
   (H)   Documents to be submitted for owner-initiated zoning map changes. When
a zoning map change application/petition is submitted by a property owner, a
contract purchaser with the owners' consent, or by the owners' agent, the
following items must be submitted in conjunction with the application before it
can be accepted:
      (1)   Ten copies of a legal description of the property for which the
change of zoning is requested, including a metes and bounds description of the
application property and one for each zoning district proposed.
      (2)   Ten copies of a certified plat showing the property drawn at a
scale with sufficient references to existing streets and subdivisions to enable
the property to be located on county maps. The plat must include a scale and
north arrow (if feasible, oriented to the top), and show the proposed streets/
roads/rights-of-way, utility lines, trails, bike and/or bridle paths, water
bodies and Chesapeake Bay Preservation features, soil types and their
locations, and open space areas. The plat shall also show the locations and
distances to existing and proposed buildings, structures and uses, the names
and numbers of all boundary roads/streets; and the widths of all existing and
proposed rights-of-way and parking areas. The plat shall also include a
tabulation chart showing the existing and proposed zoning, the existing and
proposed use(s), the number of dwelling units and supporting buildings or
structures and their sizes in square feet (for proposed residential
structures), the number of buildings or structures and their sizes in square
feet and floor area ratio (for proposed non-residential uses), the amount and
type of open space, the area used to calculate density/intensity of the
proposed use, and the vehicle trips per day and by peak hour anticipated to be
generated by the proposed use (ITE trip generation figures should be provided
at a minimum). The plat shall contain the seal and signature of the
professional that prepared it.
      (3)   The names and addresses, of the property owners abutting the
application property and across the street from it, and the county tax parcel
numbers of their properties.
      (4)   A completed application for zoning map change on forms provided by
the Zoning Administrator, including payment of the review fee and submission of
any proffers being proposed.
      (5)   A written Statement of Justification for the application
addressing:
         (a)   Whether and how the proposed application and its use(s) are
consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether and how the proposed application and its use(s) are in
compliance with all applicable zoning ordinance regulations;
         (c)   Whether and how the proposed application and its use(s) are
consistent with the individual zoning criteria in VA Code §§ 15.2-2283 and
15.2-2284;
         (d)   Whether and how the proposed application and its use(s) will
protect, and not damage the county's fresh water aquifer and water quality
(including groundwater);
         (e)   Whether and how the proposed application and use(s) are
compatible with existing or proposed uses in the neighborhood and with adjacent
parcels;
         (f)   Whether and why there is sufficient existing or proposed
landscaping, screening and buffering on the application property and/or in the
neighborhood to adequately screen surrounding uses;
         (g)   Whether and how the proposed application and use(s) will result
in the preservation of topographic, physical, natural, scenic, archaeological
and/or historic features of significance;
         (h)   Whether and why the traffic expected to be generated by the
proposed use(s) will be adequately and safely served by roads, pedestrian
connections, and other transportation services;
         (i)   Whether and why the proposed use(s) will not affect the
structural capacity or the sewage disposal functionality of the soils.
   (I)   Documents to be submitted for a zoning text change. When a zoning text
change is proposed by a property owner, a contract purchaser with the owners'
consent, or by the owners' agent, the following items must be submitted in
conjunction with the application before it can be accepted:
      (1)   The proposed wording or re-wording of the text to be amended with
references to the article, section and subsection that is proposed to be
amended.
      (2)   A narrative description of the purposes to be served by the
proposed amendment and how it would change the regulations of the zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   Completed application/petition for zoning text change on forms
provided by the Zoning Administrator, including payment of the review fee.
      (4)   A written Statement of Justification for the application
addressing:
         (a)   Whether and how the proposed amendment is consistent with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether and how the proposed amendment is consistent with the
individual zoning criteria in VA Code §§ 15.2-2283 and 15.2-2284;
         (c)   Whether, how, and to what extent the proposed amendment and its
use(s) are in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinance regulations;
         (d)   Whether, how, and to what extent the proposed amendment will
protect the county's fresh water and water quality (including groundwater);
         (e)   Whether and how the proposed amendment and its use(s) are
compatible with existing or proposed uses in the neighborhood and with adjacent
parcels which may potentially be affected by the amendment;
         (f)   How the proposed amendment intends to mitigate any potentially
adverse impacts caused by the proposed use(s) or regulatory change(s).
   (J)   Joint processing of applications permitted.  In cases where
applications, which are related to the same project, request amendments to the
zoning map, amendments to the zoning text, the approval of a special use
permit, or other approvals required to be made by the Board of Supervisors, it
is the policy of the county that such applications may be submitted and
processed as if they were a single application. Notwithstanding the above,
action by the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors on each application
shall be considered and voted on separately.
   (K)   Appeals. Any action contesting the decision of the Board to adopt or
failing to adopt a proposed zoning ordinance or amendment thereto shall be
filed within 30 days of the decision with the Circuit Court.
   (L)   Recording changes on zoning map.  If, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, changes are made in district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on
the official zoning map promptly after the change has been approved by the
Board of Supervisors or no more than ten days after approval. Such changes
shall be attested by the initials of the Zoning Administrator and the date of
entry. A paper copy of such map or maps shall be filed with the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County. Changes to this chapter which involve
matters portrayed on the official zoning map shall be entered onto the official
zoning map. No change of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.044 PROFFERING CONDITIONS TO ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2303, as amended, it is the
purpose of this section to provide a more flexible and adaptable zoning method
to cope with the situations found in various zones and applications through
proffered re-zonings, whereby a zoning reclassification may be allowed subject
to certain conditions voluntarily proffered by the applicant for the protection
of the community that may or may not be generally applicable to land similarly
zoned.
   (B)   Proffer of conditions. In addition to the regulations provided for the
zoning districts by this chapter, the Board of Supervisors may adopt, as part
of an amendment to the zoning map, reasonable conditions when such conditions
shall have been voluntarily proffered in writing, in advance of the Board of
Supervisors public hearing, by the owner of the property submitting the zoning
map amendment. Once proffered and accepted as part of an amendment to the
zoning ordinance, such conditions shall continue in full force and effect until
a subsequent amendment changes the zoning ordinance; provided, however, that
such conditions shall continue if the subsequent amendment is part of a
comprehensive implementation of a new or substantially revised zoning
ordinance.
   (C)   Proffered rezoning procedure.
      (1)   Once a rezoning application/petition has been filed and accepted by
the Zoning Administrator, it shall be reviewed in keeping with the guidelines
as found in this subchapter by the Director of Planning and Zoning. The
Director of Planning and Zoning shall prepare a report and recommendation for
presentation to the Planning Commission, a copy of which shall be transmitted
to the applicant.
      (2)   The Director of Planning and Zoning's report shall indicate those
proffered conditions that he/she believes are necessary to mitigate the
application's impacts on adjacent landowners as well as the county and its
citizens.
      (3)   The Planning Commission, at a duly conducted public hearing, shall
consider the Director of Planning and Zoning's recommendations and discuss same
with the applicant. The Commission shall forward its recommendations on the
zoning application/petition to the Board of Supervisors.
      (4)   After the recommendation of the Commission is made and prior to the
Board of Supervisors’ public hearing on the application/ petition, the
petitioner shall submit in writing and signed by the landowner, the final
voluntary proffers being offered in conjunction with the zoning amendment
request. The proffers shall be addressed to the Chairperson, Northampton County
Board of Supervisors, with a copy provided to the Director of Planning and
Zoning.
      (5)   If the rezoning application is approved with the proffered
conditions, the proffers shall be recorded in the Clerk of the Circuit Court's
office. Those proffers which condition the use of the land involved shall be
made a part of the deed to such lands. The proffers, including those which
require monetary payments, shall run with the land until removed by the Board
of Supervisors as a result of an amendment to the original application or as a
result of a subsequent rezoning petition.
      (6)   Petition for review. The Zoning Administrator is vested with all
the necessary authority on behalf of the Board of Supervisors to administer and
enforce conditions attached to a rezoning or zoning map amendment pursuant to
VA Code § 15.2-2299. Any zoning applicant or other person who is aggrieved by a
decision of the Zoning Administrator made pursuant to the administration and/or
enforcement of conditions attached to a rezoning or zoning map amendment may
petition the Board of Supervisors for review of the decision. Petitions shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator and the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors within 30 days of the decision date for which the review is sought.
The petition shall specify all of the grounds upon which the petitioner claims
to be aggrieved.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.045 SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. There is a mutual responsibility between the
county and the developer to develop land in an orderly manner. The purpose of
this section is to encourage innovative and creative design and facilitate use
of the most advantageous techniques in the development of land in the county
and to ensure the efficient use of land and to promote high standards in the
layout, design, landscaping and construction of development.
   (B)   Development or land use requiring a site plan. A site plan is required
for the following:
      (1)   Any development in which an automobile parking space is to be used
by more than one business;
      (2)   Any use or development, regardless of zoning district, where a plat
is submitted pursuant to the Subdivision Ordinance. Single-family detached
dwelling units constructed by property owner(s) or farm building or structure
on a parcel of land with a total impervious cover percentage, including the
impervious cover from the farm building or structure to be constructed, of less
than 5% on their individual lots are exempt from the provisions of this
section;
      (3)   Any proposed change in an approved site plan;
      (4)   Any proposed change from an existing residential use to a business,
industrial or multi-family residential use;
      (5)   Any public or semi-public building;
      (6)   Any other use involving a structure required to be reviewed by the
county under VA Code § 15.2-2286 (A) (8), as amended.
   (C)   Site plan information required. Every site plan must contain the
following information:
      (1)   Location of tract or parcel by vicinity map at a scale of not less
than one inch equals 2,000 feet showing streets, water bodies, property
boundaries, and other landmarks sufficient to properly identify the location of
the property;
      (2)   A boundary survey of the tract, or site plan limit, with an error
of closure within the limit of one foot in 7,500 feet related to the true
meridian and showing the location and type of boundary evidence;
      (3)   A certificate or plat signed by the engineer or surveyor setting
forth the source and title of the owner of the tract and the place of record of
the last instrument in the chain of title;
      (4)   Existing and proposed streets and easements, including their names,
numbers and widths; existing and proposed utilities of all types; water courses
and their names; owners, zoning and present use of adjoining tracts;
      (5)   Location, type, dimensions, and size of ingress and egress to the
site;
      (6)   Location, type, size and height of all structures and fencing,
screening and retaining walls where required under the provisions of applicable
ordinances;
      (7)   All off-street parking and parking bays, loading spaces and
walkways indicating type of surfacing, sizes of spaces and bays, angle of
stalls, width of aisles and a specific schedule showing the number of parking
spaces provided and the number required in accordance with the county zoning
ordinance;
      (8)   Number of floors, floor area, height, location and proposed general
use of each building; the number, size and type of dwelling units for any
multi-family residential building, town house, or patio house;
      (9)   All shoreline alteration, including dredging, filling and
bulkheading; provisions for disposing of spoils, for preventing saltwater
intrusion, for preserving the ecology of the area, and for preventing damage to
the groundwater supply;
      (10)   Existing and proposed water and sanitary sewerage facilities
indicating all pipe sizes, types, and grades and where connections are to be
made to an existing or a proposed central water and sewerage system;
      (11)   Provision for the adequate disposition of stormwater in accordance
with design criteria and construction standards of the Commonwealth and/or the
county in effect at the time the site plan is submitted, including the
locations, sizes, types and grades of ditches, catch basins and pipes, and
connections to existing drainage systems;
      (12)   Provision and schedule for the adequate control of erosion and
sedimentation indicating proposed temporary and permanent control practices and
measures that will be implemented during all phases of clearing, grading and
construction in keeping with the requirements of the County Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control Ordinance;
      (13)   Existing topography shown with a maximum of two-foot contour
intervals at a scale of not less than 50 feet to the inch, or spot elevations
if the gradient is less than 1%;
      (14)   Proposed finished grading shown with a maximum of two-foot contour
intervals at a scale of not less than 50 feet to the inch, supplemented where
necessary by spot elevations;
      (15)   All horizontal dimensions shown in feet and decimals of a foot to
be closest to one hundredth of a foot; all bearings shown in degrees, minutes,
and seconds to the nearest ten seconds;
      (16)   A landscape design plan;
      (17)   Provisions for firefighting services and facilities, including
emergency services.
   (D)   Site plan processing.
      (1)   Any person submitting a site plan must submit written proof of
notification of adjacent property owners. Notice sent by mail to the last known
address of each owner as shown on the current real estate tax assessment books
of Northampton County will be deemed adequate compliance with this requirement.
The provision of notice is the responsibility of the owner or the developer. No
site plan will be approved within ten days of any such notice. The notice must
state: the type of use, the date of site plan submission, the specific location
of the proposed development and the appropriate county office where the site
plan may be viewed.
      (2)   The site plan and any portion thereof must be prepared by persons
certified in the Commonwealth to do such work.
      (3)   The site plan must show the name and address of the owner or
developer, magisterial district, county, state, north point, date and scale of
drawing and number of sheets. In addition, it must reserve a blank space four
inches by four inches in size on the plan face for the use of the approving
authority.
      (4)   The site plan must be prepared to the scale of one inch equals 50
feet or larger; no sheet may exceed 42 inches in any dimension.
      (5)   The site plan may be prepared on one or more sheets. If prepared on
more than one sheet, match lines must clearly indicate where the several sheets
join.
      (6)   Nine clearly legible blue-line copies of a site plan must be filed
with the county's agent (designated in division (F) below).
      (7)   Profiles must be submitted for all sanitary and storm sewers,
streets and curbs adjacent thereto, and other utilities and must be submitted
on standard profile sheets. Special studies as required may be submitted on
standard cross-section paper and must have a scale of one inch equal to 50 feet
horizontally and one inch equal to five feet vertically. No sheet size may
exceed 42 inches in any dimension. Any required flood plain limit studies must
be shown on all profile sheets with reference to properties affected and center
lines of streams.
      (8)   In addition to the information required on site plans above, the
following specific items must also be shown if applicable:
         (a)   Right-of-way line(s), center lines, departing lot lines, lot
numbers, subdivision limits, limits of construction, and building locations;
         (b)   Center line curve data, including delta angle, radius, arc,
chord, and tangent;
         (c)   Radius of all curb returns to face of curb and on streets where
curb and gutter are not required indicate radius to edge of bituminous
treatment;
         (d)   The edge of proposed street surface or the face of curb, as the
case may be, for the full length of all streets;
         (e)   The width of all rights-of-way and easements, the width of
surface or distance between curb faces, and relation to center line; the
purpose of any utility easement or right-of-way and a statement whether it is
to be publicly or privately maintained;
         (f)   When proposed streets intersect with or otherwise adjoin
existing streets or travel ways, both edges of existing pavement surface or
curb and gutter for a distance of 100 feet or the length of connection,
whichever is greater;
         (g)   Existing and proposed drainage easements and the direction of
drainage flow in streets, storm sewer, streams, and subdrainage areas;
         (h)    All water mains, sizes, valves, and fire hydrant locations;
         (i)    All sanitary or septic tank systems and storm sewers and
appurtenances, with appurtenances identified by both type and number and the
stations on the plan conforming to the stations shown on the profile; the top
and invert elevation of each structure must also be indicated;
         (j)   The contributing drainage area in acres, along with all culvert
pipes, curb inlets, and other entrances exclusive of driveway pipes;
         (k)    Flood plain limits, which must be established by current NFIP
maps, soil survey, and/or engineering methods;
         (l)   The location of any springs either within the development or
draining into street rights-of-way, along with all proposed methods of
treatment;
         (m)    The location of all streams and or drainage ways related to the
street construction and any proposed drainage ditches or stream relocation,
including details of a typical drainage section and type of stabilization to be
provided. Easements will not be considered part of the street right-of-way;
         (n)   Type or class of concrete or treated metal drainage pipe to be
installed, and any paved roadside ditches as required;
         (o)   Location of "no through-street" signs where required on cul-de-
sac streets or temporary cul-de-sac streets;
         (p)   The proper driveway entrance type, computed culvert size, and/or
VDOT design designation;
         (q)   Provision for erosion control measures;
         (r)   Typical street sections to be used;
         (s)   Symmetrical transition of pavement at intersection with existing
streets;
         (t)   Connection to proposed VDOT construction;
         (u)   A minimum of two datum references for elevations used on plans
and profiles and correlated, where possible, to U.S. National Geodetic Survey
datum;
         (v)   Any notes required to explain the intent and purposes of
specific items on the plan or profile;
         (w)   All proffered conditions accepted as part of a rezoning of any
part of the property.
   (E)   Minimum standards and required improvements.
      (1)   The developer is responsible for installing, at his/her cost, all
improvements required under this section. For any cost-sharing or reimbursement
agreement between the County of Northampton or its incorporated towns and the
developer to apply, it must have been executed in writing prior to site plan
approval and must be accepted by the Virginia Department of Transportation. The
developer must follow any specifications that the Virginia Department of
Transportation or this chapter has established for streets or related
facilities and utilities. The developer's performance guarantee will not be
released until construction has been inspected and accepted by the county and
by any state or local governmental agency, such as VDOT, that is to have
ultimate maintenance responsibility.
      (2)   Prior to approval of any site plan, the developer (which may be the
owner) must execute an agreement to construct all required physical
improvements located within public rights-of-way or easements or connected to
any public facility. The agreement must be secured by a performance guarantee
(i.e., certified check, performance bond with surety, or letter of credit) in a
form and amount satisfactory to the agent, conditioned upon the construction of
the improvements. The agent will determine the required amount of the
performance guarantee after preparing or causing to be prepared a cost estimate
of all improvements, based upon unit prices for new public or private sector
construction in the county, and a reasonable allowance for estimated
administrative costs, including inspection fees required, inflation, and
potential damage to existing roads or utilities, which may not exceed 25% of
the estimated construction costs.
      (3)   Condominium and common wall house projects of all types must
indicate on the plat those areas reserved for rental purposes and those areas
reserved for sale purposes. All common wall housing projects where programmed
for sale purposes must submit a subdivision plat showing all lots as required
by the Subdivision Ordinance.
      (4)   Where the Comprehensive Plan indicates a proposed right-of-way
greater than that existing along the boundaries of the site, the additional
right-of-way must be dedicated for public use as a condition the plan is
approved. Where a site plan proposes development on a public street less than
50 feet wide, approval of the site plan is conditioned on the dedication of
sufficient right-of-way so that the site's boundary is at least 25 feet from
the center line of the street. All building setbacks must be measured from the
dedicated right-of-way.
      (5)    All street and highway construction and geometric design must
conform to the standards specified in the Subdivision Ordinance.
      (6)   Vehicular travel lanes or driveways designed to permit vehicular
travel on the site and to and from adjacent property and parking areas must be
at least 20 feet wide. On any site bordering a primary or arterial highway or
adjacent to an existing service road in the state highway system, the
developer, in lieu of providing travel lanes, parking areas and adjacent
property, may dedicate land where necessary for such roads. In that event, the
required setback will be no greater than the setback required without the
dedication, except that in no instance may a building be constructed closer
than 50 feet to the nearest right-of-way line. Upon satisfactory completion and
inspection, and after application by the developer, the county will take the
necessary steps to have such a service road accepted by VDOT for maintenance.
      (7)   Where a site plan calls for pipestem residential lots, the width of
any pipestem must be at least 25 feet, and the length of the pipestem must be
no more than 200 feet from the right-of-way line for the street to which the
lot has access; however, the agent may approve a variation in the length if he/
she determines that there is an unusual situation, such as topography that
makes compliance with the requirements impractical, or that strict adherence to
the general regulations would result in substantial injustice or hardship.
      (8)   Cul-de-sacs must be designed and constructed in accordance with the
street standards specified in the Subdivision Ordinance and may not be
construed or used as parking bays.
      (9)   Any parking bay must be constructed to the same construction
standard as the appurtenant public street to which the parking bay abuts and
must be of a dustless surface. Pervious surfaces must be used whenever
possible.
      (10)   Where geometric design standards are modified from those required
in the Subdivision Ordinance, as set forth above, the developer will be
responsible for the placing of "No Parking" signs on all travel lanes,
driveways or streets to prohibit parking.
      (11)   Adequate easements must be provided for drainage and all
utilities. Any such easement must be at least 15 feet wide. Where multiple
structures or pipes are installed or the edge of any easement does not follow
the established lot lines, the nearest edge of the easement must be at least
five feet from any building.
      (12)   Adequate drainage for the disposition of storm and natural waters
both on-site and off-site must be provided. The extent and nature of both on-
and off-site treatment are to be determined by the county's agent in conference
with the developer.
      (13)   The developer must make adequate provision for all necessary
temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures, both on-
and off-site. The agent will establish the extent of the required and
permissible control measures, based on recommendations by Eastern Shore Soil
and Water Conservation District and approved by the Board of Supervisors.
      (14)   The developer must make adequate provision for all utilities, both
onsite and offsite. Percolation tests and/or other methods of soil evaluation
deemed necessary by the Health Department will be the responsibility of the
developer. When a central water and/or sewerage system with sufficient capacity
either exists or is proposed within a reasonable distance of the site, the
developer must make provisions to connect to the system(s).
      (15)    All public facilities, utility and drainage easements outside the
right-of-way of public streets or accessways must be shown on the final site
plan. Utility installations in public streets and rights-of-way must be
coordinated with street construction plans and profiles approved by the
Virginia Department of Transportation's Residency Administrator for Northampton
County.
      (16)   The developer must provide adequate fire hydrants and distribution
systems in areas where central or public water systems are available.
      (17)   The developer must provide for sidewalks and pedestrian walkways
that will enable patrons and/or tenants to walk safely and conveniently from
one building to another and to adjacent sites. Where appropriate, the developer
must provide for pedestrian walkways and equestrian ways in relation to private
and public areas of recreation and open space, such as schools, parks, gardens
and similar areas. Wherever possible, walkways and equestrian ways must connect
to similar facilities in adjacent developments.
      (18)   The developer must provide landscape planting, screening, fences,
walks, curbs, gutters and other physical improvements as required by county
ordinances and VDOT regulations. The landscape planting area must meet the
following, minimum requirements:
         (a)   At least 10% of the developed area covered by a site plan must
be designated as green area, which is to be planted with grass, ground cover,
trees, shrubs, or other landscaping. At least one-half of the landscaped area
must be between the street right-of-way or curb line and the building line;
         (b)   Existing trees within the green area must be left standing
whenever practicable; if there are insufficient existing trees, the developer
must plant new trees, so that there is at least one tree for every 400 square
feet of green area. The trees must have a minimum trunk diameter of two inches
measured 12 inches above the ground line. Planting of new trees will be deemed
successful when, based on the agent's determination, 90% have survived at least
one year after the completion of planting.
         (c)   Trees and plants that are native to the county or are, in the
judgment of the Zoning Administrator, compatible with native vegetation, are
generally acceptable.
      (19)   One set of approved plans, profiles and specifications must be at
the site at all times when work is being performed.
      (20)   When, during construction, any changes are made to improvements as
shown on the approved site plan, the developer must submit to the agent two
copies of the completed as-built site plan or building location plat certified
by a registered engineer, architect, surveyor, or certified landscape
architect. The "as-built site plan" must be submitted at least one week prior
to the anticipated occupancy of any building. The agent will review the plan
for conformity with the approved site plan and with the ordinances and
regulations of the county and state agencies.
      (21)   Neither the approval of a site plan nor the construction or
installation of improvements required in this chapter will obligate the county
to accept improvements for maintenance, repair or operation. Acceptance will be
subject to county and/or state regulations, where applicable, concerning the
acceptance of each type of improvement.
      (22)   Best Management Practices (BMPs) shall be designed such that the
lowest outfall invert elevations shall be at or near the seasonal high water
table so as to minimize the non-beneficial withdrawal of ground water while
still meeting all other applicable design specifications, e.g., water balance,
and not adversely impacting upstream conveyance systems.
   (F)   Administration and procedures for processing site plans.
      (1)   The agent appointed by the Board of Supervisors (the agent) is
delegated the authority and power to administer this section.
      (2)   The Director of Planning and Zoning or his/her designated agent, is
designated as the agent to review site plans for the county.
      (3)   The agent is responsible for the receipt, review, processing, and
approval of site plans.
      (4)   The agent may request opinions and/or decisions from other
departments, divisions, agencies or authorities of the county government,
officials, departments, or agencies of the Commonwealth, or from other persons
as may from time to time be retained.
      (5)   The agent may, from time to time, establish reasonable
administrative procedures necessary for the proper administration of this
section.
      (6)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the agent under this
section may appeal that decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals as set forth in
§
154.2.229.
      (7)   The processing of site plans is governed, to the extent applicable,
by VA Code §§ 15.2-2258 to 15.2-2261. Approval, modification and approval, or
disapproval of a site plan by the agent should generally occur within 90 days
of official submission, in the office of the agent, of a complete site plan
application. A site plan application is not complete, and is not officially
submitted, unless it contains all of the required information in the proper
form described in this section and is accompanied by the required fee in
accordance with the fee schedule duly adopted by the Board and on file in the
Department of Planning and Zoning. The agent will inform a developer if a site
plan application is incomplete.
      (8)   No public easement, right-of-way or public dedication shown on any
site plan will be accepted for dedication for public use until the Board of
Supervisors has approved the proposed dedication and evidence of such approval
is shown on the instrument to be recorded.
      (9)   Except as otherwise provided in state law, approval of a site plan
pursuant to this chapter will expire five years after the date of approval
unless building permits have been obtained and have not expired. Before a site
plan expires, the agent may grant an extension up to five years upon written
request by the developer; however, the owner or developer must also extend all
pertinent agreements and performance guarantees must also be extended.
      (10)   No administrative officer or agent of the county may issue a
permit for the construction of any building or improvement requiring a site
plan or in any area covered by a site plan except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and after approval of a site plan.
      (11)   County agencies responsible for the supervision and enforcement of
this chapter will periodically inspect the site during the period of
construction.
      (12)   The agent must certify to the Building Official that the project
complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter. That certification,
upon ratification by the Board of Supervisors, will release any performance
guarantee which may have been furnished.
      (13)   No change, revision, or erasure is permitted on any pending final
site plan or on any accompanying data sheet where approval has been endorsed on
the plat or sheets unless the agent has authorized such changes in writing.
      (14)   Any approved site plan may be revised; request for revision must
be filed and processed in the same manner as the original site plan. Revisions
must comply with chapter provisions applicable at the time the revision is
reviewed.
      (15)   The Board of Supervisors, by resolution, may establish from time
to time a schedule of fees for the review of site plans.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-2024)
GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.2.060 GENERAL APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this subchapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of building or use
within such district.
   (A)   Conformity with all regulations. No building or land shall hereafter
be used or occupied, and no building or part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located or is to be located.
   (B)   Conformity with density and dimensional regulations. No building shall
hereafter be erected, constructed, used or altered so as to exceed height or
bulk limits, density, percentage of lot area or size of rear yards, front
yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein specified.
   (C)   Conformity with yard regulations. No new yard (also referred to as a
setback) or lot shall hereafter be created nor shall any yard or lot existing
at the time of enactment of this chapter be altered so that the requirements
for width, depth or area; the requirements for front, side, or rear yards; or
other requirements of this chapter are not maintained, except when a portion of
a lot is acquired and/or used for public use.
   (D)   Encroachment on existing required yard or open space. No part of a
yard, or other open space, or off-street parking space or loading space,
required in connection with any building shall be included as part of a yard or
open space required for another building, except as provided herein.
   (E)   Existing building permit valid. Nothing contained herein shall require
any changes in the plans or construction of any building for which a valid
building permit was granted prior to the effective date of this chapter.
However, if such construction does not diligently commence within six months of
issuance, any construction after such period shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter for the district in which the activity is located.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.061 MEASUREMENT OF CERTAIN DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Lot width.
      (1)   The lot width at the front lot line shall be measured as the
shortest distance between the two points created where the side lot lines
intersect the front lot line.
      (2)   The lot width at the front building line shall be measured as the
shortest distance along a straight line which passes through a point on each
side lot line and the point on the building, structure, or use, subject to such
regulation, nearest the front lot line.
      (3)   The lot width at the shoreline shall be measured at the straight
line distance which is the shortest of the following:
         (a)   A line between the points of intersection of the side lot lines
with the shoreline;
         (b)   A line drawn perpendicular to a side lot line from the point of
intersection with the shoreline and intersecting the other side lot line or
such side lot line extended.
   (B)   Wetlands, coastal primary sand dunes and water areas excluded from lot
area. In calculating the area of any lot for the purpose of compliance with the
minimum lot area requirements of the district regulations, tidal and non-tidal
wetlands, coastal primary sand dunes, freshwater ponds, and areas waterward of
the shoreline shall be excluded.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.062 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Frontage on public street or private road.  Except for lots
established pursuant to §
154.2.045 (E)(7), every lot established and used for single-family residential
development shall have a frontage on a public street or private road of not
less than 75% of the lot width at the required building setback line, except
that the frontage of lots located on the turnaround of cul-de-sac streets may
be reduced to 50% of the width at the building line.
   (B)   Encroachment on area of existing lot prohibited. The area of an
existing lot shall not be reduced or diminished so that the yards or other open
spaces shall be smaller than the yards or open spaces required by the district
in which the lot is located, nor shall any portion of a lot be used, sold or
otherwise separated from the main tract which is not in conformity with the
area and dimensional regulations for lots in the district in which the lot is
located.
   (C)   Required yards/setbacks cannot be reduced.  No lot shall be reduced in
area so as to make any yard/setback or any other open space less than the
minimum required by this chapter, and, if already less than the minimum
required, such yard/setback shall not further be reduced. No part of a required
yard/setback or other open space shall be considered as part of the required
yard/setback or other open space for another building, lot, structure, or use.
   (D)   Double and reverse frontage lots prohibited.  Except in situations
specifically authorized by this chapter, or where no other access is physically
possible, double and/or reverse frontage lots are prohibited in all residential
developments and residentially-zoned districts.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.063 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Temporary construction structures.  Temporary buildings and
structures, including mobile homes, recreational vehicles, and other highway
vehicles may be erected or placed on a construction site in all districts as an
accessory structure if such buildings, structures, or vehicles are incidental
and reasonably necessary to construction work on the premises. Such temporary
buildings, structures, or vehicles shall be placed on a construction site only
after a building permit has been issued for the on-site construction work to be
performed. When such construction work is completed or abandoned, when the
building permit expires or is revoked, whichever comes first, such temporary
buildings, structures or vehicles shall be removed.
   (B)   Temporary emergency housing. If an occupied single-family dwelling or
mobile home in any district shall burn, flood or be otherwise damaged or
destroyed by any cause to a degree so as to make it unsafe or unhealthy for
human occupancy, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the temporary placement
of a mobile home on the property as an accessory structure for the purpose of
providing emergency housing for the displaced occupants, provided the mobile
home is placed in the location on the property specified by the Director of
Planning and Zoning, and the mobile home is provided with a water supply and
sewage disposal system approved by the Health Officer. The mobile home shall be
removed from the site when the damaged dwelling is repaired or replaced or
within 12 months, whichever shall come first, except that the Director of
Planning and Zoning may grant, for good cause shown, an extension not to exceed
an additional six months.
   (C)   Temporary family health care structure.  Temporary family health care
structures shall be allowed by right in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   The structure shall be for use by a caregiver in providing care for
a mentally or physically impaired person.
      (2)   The structure shall be located on property owned or occupied by the
caregiver as his/ her residence as a permitted accessory use in any single-
family residential zoning district on lots zoned for single-family detached
dwellings.
      (3)   A special use permit shall not be required.
      (4)   The requirements stated in §
154.2.064 "Accessory Uses" shall be met unless otherwise provided for in this
section.
      (5)   Such structures shall comply with all setback requirements that
apply to the primary structure.
      (6)   Only one temporary family health care structure shall be allowed on
a lot or parcel of land.
      (7)   For the purposes of this subsection, the following terms shall have
meanings as set forth herein.
         (a)   CAREGIVER means an adult who provides care for a mentally or
physically impaired person. The caregiver shall be related by blood, marriage,
or adoption or be the legally appointed guardian of the mentally or physically
impaired person for whom he/she is caring.
         (b)   MENTALLY OR PHYSICALLY IMPAIRED PERSON means a person who is a
resident of Virginia and requires assistance with two or more activities of
daily living, as certified in writing by a physician licensed by the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
         (c)   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE means a transportable
residential structure, providing an environment facilitating a caregiver's
provision of care for a mentally or physically impaired person that is
primarily assembled at a location other than its site of installation and is
limited to one occupant who shall be the mentally or physically impaired
person. The structure shall be no larger than 300 gross square feet and shall
comply with all applicable building codes, including, but not limited to,
Industrialized Building Safety Law and the Uniform Statewide Building Code. The
structure shall not be placed on a permanent foundation.
      (8)   The applicant shall provide evidence of compliance on an annual
basis to the Zoning Administrator as long as the structure remains on the
property.
      (9)   The permit fee for the structure shall be as established by the
Board of Supervisors and shall not exceed $100 for the permit.
      (10)   The temporary family health care structure shall be required to
connect to any water, sewer and electrical utilities serving the primary
structure and shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Virginia
Department of Health.
      (11)   No signage will be allowed on the temporary family health care
structure or elsewhere on the property except as provided in §
154.2.190.
      (12)   The temporary family health care structure shall be removed within
30 days once the mentally or physically impaired person is no longer receiving
or is no longer in need of the assistance as described within this subsection.
      (13)   The Zoning Administrator may revoke the permit granted to a
resident if the permit holder violates any provision of this subsection.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.064 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Location and height. No accessory structures, signs, or temporary
structures, shall be located in any required front yard, unless the lot is
situated such that a shoreline constitutes the rear lot line. On such
waterfront lot, an accessory structure may be placed in the front yard,
provided that the minimum front setback is met and any such structure visible
from a public road is fully screened with opaque vegetation that would be
expected to grow to the height of the building. On a corner lot, no accessory
structure shall be located nearer a corner lot line than the minimum side
building setback required in the district. No accessory structures within 15
feet of a lot line shall be more than 15 feet in height.
   (B)   Not permitted prior to principal use or structure. No accessory use or
structure shall be permitted on a lot until:
      (1)   The principal use or structure has previously been established; or
      (2)   Construction has begun on the principal structure and is diligently
pursued.
   (C)   Ingress and egress part of principal use.  The route of ingress and
egress to a use is considered to be accessory to the principal use and
therefore required to be in a zoning district which permits the principal use
which it serves.
   (D)   Conversion of an existing principal single-family dwelling into an
accessory dwelling unit. An existing principal single-family dwelling may be
converted into an accessory dwelling through the zoning clearance process and
meeting the criteria in Section
154.2.117 ACCESSORY DWELLINGS. The zoning clearance is complete when the
required Certificate of Occupancies are issued for both dwellings.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Amendment adopted 5-9-2017)
§ 154.2.065 PARKING AND LOADING.
   All buildings or structures erected or enlarged shall conform to the off-
street parking and loading regulation for specific uses as specified for the
district in which such building or structure is located.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.066 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY.
   On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted,
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede a motorist's vision between a
height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades of the
intersecting roads in the area bounded by the road rights-of-way adjoining such
corner lot and a line joining points along such road rights-of-way 50 feet from
this point of intersection.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 154.2.080 ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AND MAPS ARE UNIFIED DOCUMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish zoning district
classifications of such size and shape as the Board of Supervisors deems the
best suited to carry out the purposes of VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 22,
Article VII, as amended.
   (B)   The zoning district classifications identified in this subchapter and
shown on a zoning district map, together with the written regulations set forth
in this chapter, shall be considered and interpreted as a single, integrated
document, and taken together they shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the
County of Northampton, Virginia.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.081 ZONING DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following classes of districts and sub-
districts are created:
   (A)   Primary zoning districts. The entire territory under the jurisdiction
of Northampton County, exclusive of the incorporated towns, is classified into
primary zoning districts to be known and cited as:
      (1)   Conservation District (C);
      (2)   Agriculture/Rural Business District (A);
      (3)   Hamlet/Residential District (H/R);
      (4)   Waterfront Hamlet/Residential District (WH/R);
      (5)   Village District (V);
      (6)   Waterfront Village District (WV);
      (7)   Existing Cottage Community/ Residential District (ECC/R);
      (8)   Town Edge District (TE);
      (9)   Existing Business District (EB);
      (10)   Existing Industrial District (EI);
      (11)   Existing Subdivision/Residential District (ES/R);
      (12)   Commercial District (C-1).
   (B)   Secondary zoning districts. The Village District (V), Waterfront
Village District (WV), Town Edge District (TE), and Existing Subdivision/
Residential District (ES/R) are further classified into secondary zoning
districts.
      (1)   The Village District (V) is sub-classified into three secondary
zoning districts to be known and cited as:
         (a)   Village - 1 District (V-1);
          (b)   Village/Residential District (V/R);
          (c)   Village - Neighborhood Business District (V-NB).
      (2)   The Waterfront Village District (WV) is sub-classified into four
secondary zoning districts to be known and cited as:
         (a)   Waterfront Village - 1 District (WV-1);
          (b)   Waterfront Village/Residential2 District (WV/R);
          (c)   Waterfront Village - Neighborhood Business District (WV-NB);
          (d)   Waterfront Village - Waterfront Commercial District (WV-WC).
      (3)   The Town Edge District (TE) is sub-classified into four secondary
zoning districts to be known and cited as:
         (a)   Town Edge - 1 District (TE-1);
          (b)   Town Edge/Residential District (TE/R);
          (c)   Town Edge - Neighborhood Business District (TE-NB);
          (d)   Town Edge - Commercial General District (TE-CG).
         The TE/R, TE-NB, and TE-CG Districts are available upon approval by
the Board of Supervisors of a rezoning application in areas zoned TE-1.
      (4)   The Existing Subdivision District/Residential (ES/R) is sub-
classified into eight secondary districts to be known and cited as:
         (a)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Agricultural-1 District (ES/
R-A-1);
         (b)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Rural Village - Rural
Residential District (ES/R-RV-RR);
         (c)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Rural Village - Residential
District (ES/R-RV-R);
         (d)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Rural Village - Residential
Mixed District (ES/R-RV-RM);
         (e)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Community Development - Rural
Residential District (ES/R-CD-RR);
         (f)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Community Development -
Single-Family Residential District (ES/R-CD-R1);
         (g)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Community Development -
Residential Mixed District (ES/R-CD-RM);
         (h)   Existing Subdivision/Residential - Existing Business -
Commercial Waterfront (ES/R-EB-CW).
   (C)   Overlay zoning districts.
      (1)   In addition to the principal and secondary zoning classifications,
special overlay districts are established to be known and cited as:
         (a)   Historic Preservation District (HP);
         (b)   Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation District (CAP);
         (c)   US 13 Corridor District (US13C).
      (2)   The overlay zoning districts shall apply only to the specific
territory delineated on the zoning district map, together with other maps
adopted by reference, as included within the boundaries of each respective
overlay zoning district. Regulations of the overlay district supplement
regulations of any principal or secondary zoning district in which the overlay
zoning district is located and shall not be interpreted to diminish or replace
such regulations.
   (D)   Floating zone districts.
      (1)   The following districts shall be known as floating zone districts.
These districts apply to special categories of projects described in this
subsection, and then only to the specific land upon which such developments are
planned and approved pursuant to procedures set forth in this chapter.
         (a)   Mobile Home Park District (MHP);
         (b)   Bayview Planned Rural Village (PUD)
      (2)   Regulations established through the approval of a floating zone
district by the Board of Supervisors shall have the following characteristics:
         (a)   They shall supplement and/or modify the regulations of the
underlying principal or secondary zoning district to the extent approved by the
Board of Supervisors at the time the floating zone is created;
         (b)   Each floating zone district shall be established for the purpose
of approving a specific community development plan as an integral unit within
the spirit and intent of the principal or secondary zoning district in which it
is located and within the development goals in the county's Comprehensive Plan;
         (c)   The application for approval of a floating zone shall be
accompanied by a preliminary site plan of the proposed development, together
with any special conditions to be proffered, and those components identified in
§
154.2.043(H) for owner- initiated zoning map amendments.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.082 STATEMENTS OF INTENT FOR PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Conservation District (C). The intent of this District is:
      (1)   To protect the resources of the Atlantic (Seaside) coastal area,
the Barrier Islands, tidal marshes, and intercoastal waters between the islands
and the mainland from any actions that would degrade the environment of those
areas and threaten them as nursery and habitat for marine life, waterfowl, and
other forms of wildlife;
      (2)   To help insure the viability of the seafood industry, which is
dependent upon these fragile and environmentally important coastal areas;
      (3)   To protect limited areas in the Chesapeake Bay coastal area that
may be identified as important nursery and habitat for marine life and
waterfowl;
      (4)   To protect limited upland coastal areas identified as unique or
unusual enough to warrant preservation because of geology, habitat, or
contribution to water quality.
   (B)   Agriculture/Rural Business District (A). The intent of this District
is:
      (1)   To preserve the prime agricultural soils of the county;
      (2)   To maintain the rural character of the county and its agricultural
activities.
      (3)   To provide an area in which the agricultural and forestry land use
activities of the county may freely practice the "Right to Farm" (as set forth
in VA Code § 3.2, as amended), including the right to till the soil, plant,
grow, and harvest crops, livestock and timber, with the attendant noise, dust,
odor, and chemical applications, including the authorized consideration of
their impacts on "the health, safety or general welfare of the public", and
provided that such activities are consistent with accepted agricultural and
silvicultural practices;
      (4)   To provide for farm agritourism activities on agricultural
operations, in an agriculturally classified district, as defined in VA Code §
3.2-6400, involving activities or events that are usual and customary at
Virginia agricultural operations and, also including the authorized
consideration of their impacts on "the health, safety or general welfare of the
public".
      (5)   To recognize that there currently exist established low density,
settled rural residential neighborhoods in the District, and to provide for low
density, rural housing compatible in aspect, design and form with the rural,
agricultural quality of the District and arranged to minimize impact upon
agricultural activities and to maximize open space which may be used for
agriculture and forestry.
   (C)   Hamlet/Residential District (H/R).  The intent of this District is:
      (1)   To recognize the county's small rural settlements of historic or
cultural significance, often located at crossroads, and which have, over the
years, taken on the form of primarily residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   To provide for a mixture of residential and low-impact commercial
uses which are compatible in aspect, design, and form with this rural setting.
   (D)   Waterfront Hamlet/Residential District (WH/R). The intent of this
District is:
      (1)   To recognize the county's distinct, small, traditional residential
and working-waterfront hamlets situated on the seaside and bayside;
      (2)   To provide for their continued existence as long-established
hamlets that support water-dependent activities for working watermen and
recreational use;
      (3)   To preserve environmentally-sensitive lands and protect water
quality and viewsheds;
      (4)   To protect flood prone areas by discouraging residential land use.
   (E)   Village District (V). The intent of this primary district is:
      (1)   To recognize the traditional villages of Northampton County and
other such clusters of development in rural areas that have begun to take on
the qualities of a village;
      (2)   To provide for a mixture of residential and neighborhood business
uses which are compatible with a rural village setting. Accordingly, three
secondary districts are provided.
         (a)   Village-1 (V-1). The intent of this secondary district is:
            1.   To provide a transition and potential future growth area
between adjacent principally agricultural areas and the more intensely
developed residential village areas of the county. Farming activities continue
to be permitted.
            2.   To provide for a mixture of farming activities and low density
residential uses that will also allow areas for potential population expansion
that is still in keeping with a rural lifestyle.
         (b)   Village/Residential (V/R). The intent of this primarily
residential secondary district is to provide residential lots large enough to
accommodate both individual water systems and sewage disposal systems on the
same site.
         (c)   Village - Neighborhood Business (V-NB). The intent of this
secondary district is:
            1.   To recognize small neighborhood commercial areas already
established in rural villages.
            2.   To provide for additional small neighborhood-serving
commercial areas compatible in nature, design and scope with a rural village
setting. Mixed-use neighborhood business with limited compatible residential
development may also be appropriate if impacts from such mixed-use development
can be mitigated.
   (F)   Waterfront Village District (WV). The intent of this primary district
is to recognize the distinct, established, traditional waterfront villages in
Northampton County and to provide for a mixture of residential, commercial, and
limited agricultural uses which are compatible in aspect, design, and form with
a rural waterfront village setting, designed to preserve environmentally
sensitive lands, protect water quality and viewsheds, discourage residential
land use in special flood hazard areas and serve to support its residents and
the local economy with traditional propagation and harvesting of seafood
products, farming, and related activities that are clean, environmentally low
impact, and ecologically sound. Four secondary districts are provided.
      (1)   Waterfront Village-1 (WV-1). The intent of this secondary district
is to provide for low-density rural housing while recognizing existing
aquaculture and farming activities and ensuring that other uses and activities
protect wetlands and ground and surface waters.
      (2)   Waterfront Village/Residential (WV/R).  The intent of this
secondary district is to provide a mix of housing types, with single-family
units predominating, that are compatible in scale with the traditional
characteristics of the village, and still ensuring that uses and activities
protect wetlands and ground and surface waters.
      (3)   Waterfront Village - Neighborhood Business (WV-NB). The intent of
this secondary district is to recognize existing commercial areas and to allow
for environmentally low-impact commercial activities which preserve the
pristine quality of ground and surface waters and other natural resources in
the village. In addition, mixed-use neighborhood businesses with limited
residential development outside of special flood hazard areas may also be
appropriate if impacts from such mixed-use development can be mitigated, while
still ensuring that uses and activities protect wetlands and ground and surface
waters.
      (4)   Waterfront Village - Waterfront Commercial (WV-WC). The intent of
this secondary district is to provide for those low-impact commercial uses
which must be located on the waterfront due to the intrinsic nature of the
activity, while still ensuring that uses and activities protect wetlands and
ground and surface waters.
   (G)   Existing Cottage Community/Residential District (ECC). The intent of
this District is to recognize existing rural residential development located on
or near the water, predating the county's adoption of a zoning ordinance or
developed under old zoning standards, and which are not served by public
utilities. It is the intent of Northampton County not to create any new
Existing Cottage Community/ Residential Districts, and the presence of an
Existing Cottage Community/Residential shall not serve as justification for
expansion of the District into surrounding Agriculture/Rural Business or
Conservation Districts.
   (H)   Town Edge District (TE). The intent of this primary district is to
provide potential development areas adjacent to incorporated towns which may,
in the future, be served by extensions of public water and sewer services from
the towns. Growth and increased development are intended to occur
simultaneously with the provision of public infrastructure, including, but not
limited to, public sewer and water, to support such growth and development.
Four secondary districts are provided:
      (1)   Town Edge - 1 District (TE-1). The intent of this secondary
district is to provide for a mix of farming activities, low density
residential, and other low-impact uses at a density/intensity higher than that
of the surrounding agricultural areas, but lower than may be appropriate in the
TE/R district.
      (2)   Town Edge/Residential District (TE/R).  The intent of this
secondary district is to provide for a mix of residential, home business, low-
impact commercial and community service uses at a density/intensity similar to
that of the adjacent town, taking into consideration the feasibility of, and
impacts from, infill development within the town.
      (3)   Town Edge - Neighborhood Business (TE-NB). The intent of this
secondary district is to provide for a compatible mix of neighborhood-scale
commercial, community service, very light industrial, and residential uses at a
density higher than that in the Town Edge-1 District and similar to that of the
adjacent town.
      (4)   Town Edge - Commercial General (TE-CG). The intent of this
secondary district is to provide for a mix of commercial, community-service,
and light manufacturing/industrial uses adjacent to incorporated towns and at a
density similar to that of the adjacent town.
   (I)   Existing Business District (EB).
      (1)   The intent of this District is to recognize commercial uses and
zones outside of Village, Waterfront Village, Hamlet/Residential, Waterfront
Hamlet/Residential, and Town Edge Districts which already exist, but in areas
which are not recommended by the Comprehensive Plan for such use(s) or for
further development or expansion of such use(s) on adjacent sites. The Existing
Business designation shall apply to all parcels (or the portions thereof) that:
         (a)   Have legal, actively operating businesses existing on them as of
October 21, 2009, or
         (b)   Parcels rezoned to the Rural Village - Commercial, Community
Development - Commercial Neighborhood District and/or the Community Development
- Commercial General District between January 1, 2002, and October 21, 2009 to
this chapter but which are located outside the Village, Waterfront Village,
Hamlet/Residential, Waterfront Hamlet/Residential, and Town Edge zoning
districts.
      (2)   Commercial uses in the EB District shall be those allowed in
Appendix A for TE-CG.
      (3)   Existing Business Districts are not intended to be enlarged after
October 21, 2009; however, a use being performed within an Existing Business
District may expand to the lawful limits of the existing site.
      (4)   Any lawful non-conforming commercial use which exists on a parcel
rezoned to the EB District on October 21, 2009, but does not appear in Appendix
A, shall still be considered a permitted use on the parcel.
   (J)   Existing Industrial (EI). The intent of this District is to recognize
existing industrial uses in the County as of October 21, 2009 as well as those
proposed for industrial use in the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   Existing Industrial Districts are not intended to be enlarged after
October 21, 2009; however, a use being performed within an Existing Industrial
District may expand to the lawful limits of the existing site.
      (2)   Any lawful non-conforming industrial or commercial use which exists
on a parcel rezoned to the EI District on October 21, 2009, but does not appear
in Appendix A, shall still be considered a permitted use on the parcel.
   (K)   Existing Subdivision/Residential (ES/R).  The intent of this District
is to recognize principally single-use, rural residential subdivisions and
condominiums which have been developed or have been approved for six or more
lots, or in the case of condominium development, six or more separate dwelling
units on one parcel, on a 50-foot right-of-way or a state road as of October
21, 2009, but which are located in areas which are not recommended by the
Comprehensive Plan for such use(s) or for further development or expansion of
such use(s) on adjacent sites.
      (1)   The developments zoned Existing Subdivision/Residential as the
primary district will retain as a secondary district the zoning assigned on
December 28, 2000, or that to which the property was rezoned between December
28, 2000, and October 21, 2009. See §
154.2.081. The uses and dimensional and area regulations associated with each
secondary district as adopted on December 28, 2000, and as may have been
subsequently amended, are hereby incorporated into this chapter and will
constitute the regulations under which each existing subdivision may continue
to be developed and/or used.
      (2)   Existing Subdivision/Residential Districts are not intended to be
enlarged after October 21, 2009; however, a development may expand to the
lawful limits of the approved subdivision plat and plan of development and in
accordance with the applicable December 28, 2000, use and dimensional and area
regulations.
   (L)   Commercial (C-1). The intent of this primary District is to provide
places for the conduct of commerce and business as well as to provide places of
employment and strengthen the local economic base. To that end, a mix of
commercial, community service, and very light industrial uses will be allowed
in this District. Commercial Districts are also intended to control and limit
strip commercial development and regulate access to public streets and to
ensure that commercial uses preserve and protect the groundwater aquifer
recharge spine along U.S. Route 13.
   (M)   Working Waterfront (WW).
      (1)   The intent of the Working Waterfront district is to provide for
commercial waterfront uses. This district also provides for other non-
residential uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the regulations
of this chapter and more specifically: general provisions, design and
performance standards for specific uses, structures and buildings, supplemental
and modification regulations, administration and procedures and design and
performance standards for improvements which are the subject of site plans.
Accessory uses, structures and buildings
Artist and artisan studio
Aquaculture operation
Basic utilities
Farm stand
Fishing, commercial
Marina
Short term rental
Temporary construction office
Transit stop
Uses similar to permitted uses
Water resource based guide services and tourism activities
Wildlife and marine life preservation area
Working waterfront uses, structures and buildings
Working waterfront support uses, structures and buildings
      (2)   The following uses require the issuance of a special use permit and
are subject to the regulations of this chapter and more specifically: general
provisions, design and performance standards for specific uses, structures and
buildings, supplemental and modification regulations, administration and
procedures and design and performance standards for improvements which are the
subject of site plans.
Dredge spoil disposal site
Government offices
Museum
Research facility
Uses similar to special use permit uses
Utility distribution plant or yard
Wind turbine, small scale and wind mill 35 ft. in total height
Wind turbine, small scale > 35 ft. and 120 ft. in total height
Wind turbine, small scale > 120 ft. and 199 ft. in total height
Wireless communication facility
      (3)   The dimension and density regulations are shown in the chart below.
Dimensions shall be measured as defined and setbacks are measured from property
lines unless otherwise specified in §
154.2.003 Definitions. Dimensions may be modified as provided in supplemental
and modification regulations, the resource protection area buffer shall serve
as and supersede all setbacks and shall be modified as provided in §
154.2.163 Chesapeake/ Atlantic Preservation Areas (CAP).
Working Waterfront (WW)
Working Waterfront (WW)
Maximum Density - Dwelling unit(s) per Acre(s)                                   Not
(sfd = single family dwelling) (mfd = multi-family dwelling)                     Applicable
Minimum                                                                           
   Lot Size                                                                   10,890 sq.
                                                                                 ft.
   Lot Frontage                                                               50 feet1
   Lot Width                                                                  None
   Shoreline Width                                                            60 feet
                                                                                 
Minimum Principal Structure and Building and Accessory Dwelling Unit Setbacks     
                                                                                 30 feet (10
                                                                                 ft. for
                                                                                 water
   Front                                                                      dependent
                                                                                 uses only)
                                                                                 or
                                                                                 Prevailing2
   Rear                                                                       10 feet3, 5
   Side                                                                       8 feet3, 5
   Side - only for attached principal structures and buildings adjacent to    0 feet
shared property lines
                                                                                 
Minimum Accessory Structure and Building Setbacks                                 
   Front                                                                      30 feet
   Rear                                                                       5 feet3, 5
   Side                                                                       3 feet3, 5
                                                                                 
Minimum Setback from U.S. Route 13. Does Not Include Route 13 Business Routes    N/A
Minimum Setback From Railroad Rights-Of-Ways                                     N/A
                                                                                 
Maximum Height4                                                                   
   Principal                                                                  35 feet
   Accessory                                                                  20 feet
   Accessory - only for structures and buildings located 15 feet or less from 15 feet
any property line
 
1   Minimum lot frontage may be reduced to 25 feet when the lot fronts on a
cul-de-sac or when the lot is designed in conformance with the standards for a
pipe stem lot.
2   See setbacks and lot measurements for prevailing setback standards.
3   If a lot zoned WW, WV-NB, WV-WC, C-1 or EI abut a lot that is zoned WW, WV-
NB, WV-WC, C-1 or EI, the side and rear minimum setbacks shall be reduced to 0
feet.
4   See height and bulk for modification and supplemental regulations.
5   If a lot is zoned NB, WV-NB, WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW abuts a
lot that is zoned NB, WV-NB, WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW, the side
and / or rear minimum setback shall be reduced to 0 feet pursuant to §
154.2.141 General Modification to Yard Regulations.
      (4)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply.
         (a)   ACCESSORY USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS. A use or structure
which is:
            1.   Clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with
the principal use, structure or building;
            2.   Subordinate to and serves the principal use, structure or
building;
            3.   Located on the same lot or parcel as the principal use,
structure or building; and
            4.   Not, in case of accessory structures and building, attached by
any common wall or by a common roof to a principal structure or building.
         (b)   ARTIST AND ARTISAN STUDIO. A workshop facility for creating art
and artisan works that may include sales, galleries and private instruction
facilities. Each district may further restrict this use by size and/or design.
Size denotes the cumulative total building footprints of all structures and
buildings associated with this use.
         (c)   AQUACULTURE OPERATION.  The propagation, rearing, enhancement,
and harvesting of aquatic organisms in controlled or selected environments,
conducted in marine, estuarine, brackish, or fresh water, and any land,
structures, equipment and buildings directly related and essential to the
function of this operation such as, but not limited to any landing,
administrative office, laboratory, sales, hatchery, pond, raceway, pen, cage,
incubator, grader, washer, or other equipment used in aquaculture. This shall
not include processing of food or agricultural support businesses. Although
other agencies may consider washing and shucking of oysters and clams to be
processing, for the purpose of the NZC only, the washing and shucking of
oysters and clams shall not be considered processing. Each district may further
restrict this use by size and/or design. Size denotes the cumulative total
building footprints of all structures and buildings associated with this use.
         (d)   BASIC UTILITIES. The use of land by a public utility subject to
the jurisdiction of the Virginia State Corporation Commission or publicly owned
to support and provide service to developed areas within the locality related
to water supply, stormwater, sanitary sewage, oil, gas, electricity, telephone,
cable, internet and broadband.
         (e)   DREDGE SPOIL DISPOSAL SITE. An area specifically designated and
approved for the collection of solid material generated by the dredging of
marine bottom for the purpose of navigational improvement.
         (f)   FARM STAND. A seasonal business selling farm produce and
products including value added products made from the agricultural produce or
products. A farm stand shall not be a permanent structure, shall not be affixed
to the ground, shall comply with all applicable building codes and includes
structures such as canopy tents and stands. Farm stands shall also include
vehicles and mobile carts properly registered and licensed by the Virginia
Department of Motor Vehicles.
         (g)   FISHING, COMMERCIAL. A business use that catches finfish or
shellfish for profit including any land, structures, buildings and equipment
directly related and essential to the function of this use, such as, but not
limited to, any landing, administrative office, equipment storage and grading
and packing sheds. This shall not include processing of finfish or shellfish.
Although other agencies may consider washing and cleaning of finfish and
shellfish to be processing, for the purpose of the NZC only, the washing and
cleaning of finfish and shellfish shall not be considered processing. Each
district may further restrict this use by size and/or design. Size denotes the
cumulative total building footprints of all structures and buildings associated
with this use.
         (h)   GOVERNMENT OFFICES. A building or structure owned, operated or
occupied by governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the
public. Each district may further restrict this use by size and/or design. Size
denotes the cumulative total building footprints of all structures and
buildings associated with this use.
         (i)   MARINA. Any installation providing dockage or moorage for boats
(exclusive of paddle or row boats) and provides, through sale, rental or fee
basis, any equipment, supply or service (fuel, electricity or water) for the
convenience of the public or its lessee, renters or users of its facilities.
         (j)   MUSEUM. A facility designed to display and provide an
interpretive context to art, artifacts, lifestyles, industry, history, events,
processes, and / or collections.
         (k)   RESEARCH FACILITY. Research, development, and testing
laboratories that do not involve the mass manufacture, fabrication, processing,
or sale of products.
         (l)   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION OFFICE. Temporary structures, buildings
and vehicles, including manufactured industrial units, recreational vehicles
and other highway vehicles erected or placed on a construction site for
accessory  use incidental and reasonably necessary to the construction work on
the premises and not used as a dwelling.
         (m)   TRANSIT STOP. Improvements and facilities at selected points
along transit routes for passenger pickup, drop off, and waiting. Facilities
and improvements may include shelters, benches, signs, structures, and other
improvements to provide security, protection from the weather, and access to
nearby services.
         (n)   USES SIMILAR TO. A use that has the same characteristics as the
specifically cited uses in terms of the following: trip generation and type of
traffic, parking and circulation, utility demands, environmental impacts, and
physical space needs.
         (o)   UTILITY DISTRIBUTION PLANT OR YARD. The use of land by a public
utility subject to the jurisdiction of the Virginia State Corporation
Commission or publicly owned to support and provide service to developed areas
within the region related to water supply, stormwater, sanitary sewage, oil,
gas, electricity, telephone, cable, internet and broadband. Includes facilities
for the distribution, storage and transmission of such utilities.
         (p)   WATER RESOURCE BASED GUIDE SERVICES AND TOURISM ACTIVITIES.
Water resource based recreation and tourism activities shall mean operations
that provide information, direction, licensing and safety requirements to
clients for recreational activities that must occur on or near the water such
as kayaking, diving and snorkeling, but shall also include guided water based
excursions, such as fishing charters, water fowl hunting and shore bird
watching, and includes rental of appropriate equipment and incidental sales of
associated gear and supplies.
         (q)   WILDLIFE AND MARINE LIFE PRESERVATION AREA. An area of property
dedicated to the preservation or protection of endangered species, a critical
environmental feature, or other natural feature.
         (r)   WIND TURBINE, SMALL SCALE. A system with a rated capacity of not
more than ten kW for residential use and not more than 100 kW for other uses
and used solely for onsite use of electrical power. Each district may further
restrict this use by size and/or design. Size denotes the total height of the
wind turbine.
         (s)   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF). Any unstaffed facility
for the transmission and / or reception of wireless communications services,
usually consisting of an antenna array, transmission cables, equipment
facilities, and a support structure.
         (t)   WORKING WATERFRONT USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS. Commercial
and public uses that depend upon water to function and are located on, over or
adjacent to or have direct access to a body of water such as, but not limited
to, fishing, aquaculture, docks, wharfs, boat ramps, marinas, marine
transportation, shipping, ports, harbors, as opposed to a use that may be
enhanced by water such as, but not limited to, restaurants and housing.
         (u)   WORKING WATERFRONT SUPPORT USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS. Uses,
structures and buildings that supply necessary services to the working
waterfront such as, but not limited to, boat building, repair, storage and
hauling, seafood grading, packaging, processing and sales and marine equipment
sales and storage.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 10- -2016; Amendment adopted
7-11-2017 ; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 154.2.083 STATEMENTS OF INTENT FOR OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Overlay Zoning Districts. The purpose and intent of special overlay
districts are set forth below and also within the regulations for such
districts elsewhere in this chapter.
   (A)   Historic Preservation District (HP). The intent of this Overlay
District is to promote the general welfare by creating within the county an
atmosphere of appreciation for our past heritage through the perpetuation of
those historic landmarks, buildings or structures, herein referred to as
historic landmarks, within the county as officially designated by the Virginia
Historic Landmarks Commission or established by the Board of Supervisors as
having historic or architectural significance.
   (B)   Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation District (CAP). The intent of this
Overlay District is to:
      (1)   Implement the requirements of VA Code Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1,
Article 2.5, § 62.1-44.15:67, as amended (The Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act).
The intent of the Board of Supervisors and the purpose of the Overlay District
is to:
         (a)   Protect existing high quality state waters;
         (b)   Restore all other state waters to a condition or quality that
will permit all reasonable public uses and will support the propagation and
growth of all aquatic life, including game fish and shellfish, which might
reasonably be expected to inhabit them;
         (c)    Safeguard the clean waters of the Commonwealth from pollution;
         (d)   Prevent any increase in pollution;
         (e)    Reduce existing pollution; and
         (f)   Promote water resource conservation in order to provide for the
health, safety, and welfare of the present and future citizens of Northampton
County.
      (2)   This District shall be in addition to and shall overlay all other
zoning districts where they are applied so that any parcel of land lying in the
Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation District shall also lie in one or more of the
other zoning districts provided for by the zoning ordinance. Unless otherwise
stated in the Overlay District, the review and approval procedures provided for
in other applicable ordinances shall be followed in reviewing and approving
development, redevelopment, and uses governed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.084 STATEMENTS OF INTENT FOR FLOATING ZONE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The intent of floating zoning districts is to allow innovative and
creative development projects that conform to the goals and objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan while allowing flexibility in design.
   (B)   Three floating zone districts are created and defined in §§
154.2.175 et seq.
      (1)   Mobile Home Park District (MHP);
      (2)   Bayview Planned Unit Development (PUD);
      (3)   Solar Energy District (SED).
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.085 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Establishment of official zoning district map.  The boundaries of the
zoning districts are shown on the official Zoning Map of Northampton County,
Virginia, which together with all notations, amendments, and explanatory matter
thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter. The official zoning map shall
be attested by the signature of the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, whose
signature shall be witnessed, and shall remain on file in the office of the
Zoning Administrator where it shall be accessible to the general public. An
exact copy of such map should be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Northampton County, Virginia.
   (B)   Replacement of lost or damaged map.
      (1)   In the event of an approved change to the official zoning map, or
if any part or all of the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or impractical to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, adopt a new official
zoning map.
      (2)   The new official zoning map may correct errors or omissions in the
prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the zoning map.
      (3)   The new official zoning map shall be attested by the signature of
the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors and shall be witnessed.
      (4)   Unless the prior official zoning map or maps have been lost or
totally destroyed, the prior map or maps, or any significant parts thereof,
remaining shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to
the adoption and amendment, if any, of the prior map or maps. However, notation
should be made on the prior map(s) that they have been superseded.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries.  Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map, the
following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Unless otherwise indicated, district boundaries shown follow the
center lines of existing or proposed roads, streets, highways, alleys or
railroads; the mean low water or center lines, as indicated, of streams, ponds,
drainage ditches, or other natural and man-made bodies of water; and property
lines or civil boundaries. In the event of change in shorelines, the boundary
shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in division (C)(1) shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the
map.
      (3)   If no distance, angle, curvature description, or other means is
given to determine a boundary line accurately and the foregoing provisions do
not apply, the same shall be determined by the size of the scale shown on the
official zoning map.
      (4)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership on October 21, 2009, and there is any dispute as to specific location
on such lot, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide the exact
location of the district line in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.2.225 et seq.
      (5)   Where the location of any other district boundary is not clear
after application of the above rules, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear
and decide such questions in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.2.225 et seq.
      (6)   In case any territory has not been specifically included within a
district, or where territory becomes a part of the unincorporated area of
Northampton County by accretion or by detachment from any municipality or the
dissolution thereof, such territory shall automatically be classified in the
most restrictive, least intense/dense contiguous district until otherwise
classified, except in those cases where the incorporated town is under the
jurisdiction of this chapter, then the existing zone shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
SUPPLEMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 154.2.100 GENERALLY.
   No permitted or special permit use hereafter established, altered, modified,
or enlarged shall be operated or designed so as to conflict with the applicable
performance standards established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.101 STANDARDS FOR CHESAPEAKE/ ATLANTIC PRESERVATION AREA.
   (A)   The performance standards to be applied in the Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation Area District are fully set forth in §
154.2.163.
   (B)   These standards are applicable in all areas of the county.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.102 STANDARDS FOR MARINA SITING.
   In addition to the standards set forth under Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation District, when considering the siting of publicly owned or
privately owned commercial marinas as special permit uses, the applicant shall
demonstrate that:
   (A)   The physical dimensions and characteristics of the proposed marina,
and the type of vessels it will house are compatible with the water body on
which the marine would be located. For example, a shallow cove or basin is not
an appropriate site for a deep draft sailboat marina;
   (B)   The marina has sufficient upland area to provide all necessary
parking, stormwater management BMP's, fuel, and sanitary facilities without
filling wetlands or subaqueous bottom;
   (C)   The marina is located in an area with good natural flushing to
minimize the build-up of organic material and other pollutants on the bottom;
   (D)   There are no areas of very high natural resource value such as
shellfish beds, seagrass communities, and areas frequented by endangered
species;
   (E)   No productive shellfish grounds would be compromised in order to
accommodate marina development;
   (F)   The concentration of slips in a single facility is justified to
prevent disturbance along undeveloped shorelines.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.103 STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to promote the county's Comprehensive Plan goals of
preserving prime or unique agricultural and woodland areas and limiting the
scale of residential development in agricultural areas, and in recognition of
the fact that the groundwater supply is limited and vulnerable to both
depletion and contamination, the following standards are established in the
Agricultural Districts.
   (B)   By-right residential uses and densities.
      (1)   Conventional development use. The maximum residential density of
conventional development in the A District shall be one dwelling unit per 20
acres of buildable area. Lots no less than one acre in size may be divided from
the base parcel as provided herein. Before a conventional development lot in
the A District may lawfully be created, it must be established to the
satisfaction of the county's Health Department that the lot can adequately be
served by onsite water and sewage disposal systems.
      (2)   Open space density bonus option.  A density bonus will apply when
residential development is clustered on small lots with at least 85% open space
reserved in the development, as follows:
         (a)   The maximum residential density of development in the A District
under the open space density bonus option shall be one dwelling unit per ten
acres of buildable area if the minimum open space preserved from the base
parcel is at least 85% (e.g. for a 100-acre base parcel, 85 acres would have to
remain in open space). Lots no less than 30,000 square feet may be divided from
the base parcel under this option. Individual lots created still also must meet
maximum lot coverage requirements.
         (b)   Before an open space density bonus option development lawfully
may be approved in the A District, it must be established to the satisfaction
of the county's Health Department that each and all of its lots in the proposed
development can adequately be served by onsite water and sewage disposal
systems.
         (c)   If any parcel was subdivided after December 28, 2000, and the
subdivider received the maximum density bonus under the zoning regulations in
place between that date and October 21, 2009, the open space density bonus
option provisions above shall not apply.
      (3)   Base parcels. Shall be those parcels and property lines existing in
the public records as of October 21, 2009. However, if a parcel was legally in
existence and zoned Agriculture on December 28, 2000, and if prior to October
21, 2009 that parcel was subdivided to allow the maximum number of bonus lots,
the base parcel under the December 28, 2000 ordinance shall be the base parcel
for determining the development density of that parcel.
      (4)   Buildable area. Shall be the upland portion of a base parcel. In no
case shall any wetlands be considered in the calculation of the buildable area
of any base parcel for density determination purposes.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.104 STANDARDS FOR OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION.
   In furtherance of the Comprehensive Plan's goals of preserving rural
character, supporting the agricultural, seafood, and tourist industries, and
conserving the county's natural resources, the remainder of the land is to be
set aside and maintained as open space. Open space to fulfill the statements of
intent for these zoning districts is desirable for the use, physical well-
being, and enjoyment of county residents.
   (A)   Two kinds of open space established. There shall be two kinds of open
space recognized in Northampton County: common and non-common.
      (1)   Common open space is open space primarily serving the use and
enjoyment of the residents of a specific project or development or the public
in general. Examples of common open space include, but are not limited to,
public parks, nature areas, village greens, athletic fields, and other public
gathering areas. To ensure that common open space is perpetually made available
for public use and access, such lands shall be dedicated to the Board of
Supervisors or some other entity allowed to accept deeded lands for open space
preservation purposes.
      (2)   Non-common open space is open space primarily for use of its owner
(s) and apart from the use of residents on lots which may have been divided
from it. Non-common open space shall meet at least one of the following
criteria:
         (a)   It is agriculturally significant for the production of crops or
livestock;
         (b)   It is suitable for the production of forestal products;
         (c)   It is of significant scenic, historic, natural or environmental
value; or
         (d)   It is important to the marine or upland wildlife habitat.
Examples of non-common open space include, but are not limited to, agricultural
fields and historic sites with proper buffers on which development will not
take place.
      (3)   The area of any development that is used to satisfy required public
infrastructure or facility needs, including, but not limited to roads,
sidewalks, and storm water management facilities, shall not count toward a
development's required open space.
   (B)   Plats, plans and deeds of dedication or easement.
      (1)   The location, size, use, and type of lot coverage and open space
(common v. non-common) shall be shown on all plats and plans for the property
submitted to the county.
      (2)   All property being used for open space to satisfy the requirements
of the open space density bonus option in the A District shall be so designated
in an open space deed of dedication (for common open space) or open space deed
of easement (for non-common open space) and on the accompanying plat/plan filed
in the land records of the county. All such deeds shall include restrictions
relating to use and maintenance of the property, including provisions for its
perpetuation, as well as a complete and accurate listing and description of all
buildings, equipment, and facilities existing on the property. The deed and its
accompanying documents must be reviewed by the County Attorney and approved by
the Planning Commission before the chapter's open space requirement is
satisfied. The Board of Supervisors may, but is not required to, accept offers
of open space.
   (C)   Open space requirements and compliance with the maximum lot coverage.
No lands in common or non-common open space shall be denuded or defaced.
Further, no open space shall be used in any manner inconsistent with the deed
of dedication or deed of easement restrictions placed upon them.
   (D)   Open space and partial development. While a property owner developing
under the open space density bonus option in the A District may divide a number
of residential lots from a base parcel which is less than the maximum number of
such lots which would be permitted:
      (1)   Open space contiguous to such lots and in the appropriate
proportion for the number of lots divided must be set aside in the manner
described above with the necessary deed or easement restrictions; and
      (2)   The deed of dedication or deed of easement and a plat indicating
the location of the residential lots, the contiguous open space, the use of the
open space, and the deed restrictions shall be recorded with the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.105 LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Authority and intent. Pursuant to VA Code §§ 15.2-2283 and 15.2-2284
and in order to further the goals of the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan
to protect natural resources while pursuing economic self-sufficiency for all
citizens, it is the intent of this section to protect existing vegetation and
provide for the installation of new vegetation at newly developed sites
specifically in order to:
      (1)   Facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious
community;
      (2)   Protect the natural environment, including forestal land;
      (3)   Protect against flooding;
      (4)   Encourage economic development;
      (5)   Protect surface water quality in the Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation Area of Northampton County; and
      (6)   Protect surface groundwater quality in a State Groundwater
Management Area with highly pervious soils where groundwater is sensitive to
contamination.
   (B)   Conflict. If the provisions of this section conflict with other
lawfully adopted ordinances or regulations, then the most restrictive shall
govern or prevail to the extent of the conflict.
   (C)   Jurisdiction and exemptions. In addition to the requirements of the
Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation District, §
154.2.163 herein, this performance standard shall apply to all development and
redevelopment within Northampton County, and no department (or board) shall
issue any permit, zoning clearance, special use permit, rezoning approval,
variance approval, waiver approval, exception approval, subdivision approval or
site plan review approval unless compliance with the vegetation protection and
installation requirements of this section is insured. However, nothing in this
section is intended to prohibit agriculture, silviculture, horticulture or
nursery operations in the county. The regulations set forth herein shall apply
to all real property within the county, subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   Forestry. All bona fide silviculture activities, as defined in §
154.2.003, shall be exempt from both vegetation protection and installation
performance standards.
      (2)   Wetlands. Wetlands mitigation plans shall be exempt from vegetation
protection and installation performance standards provided that such plans have
been approved by the Northampton County Wetlands Board.
      (3)   Nurseries. Commercial nursery operations shall be exempt from
vegetation protection performance standards for the purpose of producing
marketable nursery stock but not from the installation performance standards
and other requirements of this ordinance as it applies to land use for offices,
buildings, and marketing operations.
      (4)   Agriculture. All bona fide agricultural operations, as defined in §
154.2.003, shall be exempt from the vegetation protection and installation
performance standards except as specified in §
154.2.110 and §
154.2.111.
      (5)   Utilities. Individual and public utilities and utility companies
shall be exempt from vegetation protection and installation performance
standards for the purpose of maintaining or creating easements to provide safe
clearance for the utility provided that a memorandum of understanding (MOU)
with Northampton County has been executed. Such MOUs shall at a minimum:
         (a)   Recognize the need to minimize the cutting or pruning of
vegetation which does not frustrate or substantially interfere with the
intended purpose of construction or maintenance;
         (b)   Specify a consultation process with the county prior to the
commencement of major construction or maintenance or the removal of trees
greater than six inches DBH;
         (c)   Provide that a breach of such MOU constitutes a violation of
this chapter and a loss of exemption from the requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   State and federal agencies. Shall be exempt from the vegetation
protection and installation performance standards but are encouraged to follow
the guidance set forth herein.
      (7)   County agencies. Shall be exempt from the vegetation protection and
installation performance standards to the extent necessary to provide services
to citizens and provide for their health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   Vegetation protection standards. Protective barricades shall be placed
around all protected vegetation located in a development or redevelopment area,
and designated to be saved on the approved site plan. Prior to the commencement
of site work, protective barricades shall be installed by the contractor and
inspected by the Northampton County Department of Planning and Zoning. This
inspection may coincide with the initial erosion and sediment control
inspection and may continue as a part of the following erosion and sediment
control inspection throughout the project. The protective barricades shall
remain in place until all site work is inspected and approved for completeness.
The area within the protective barricade shall remain free of all building
materials, dirt, or other construction debris, vehicles and development
activities.
      (1)   Protective barricades. Protective barricades shall be erected
according to the following standards:
         (a)   Five feet outside the dripline of protected vegetation as
defined in this chapter;
         (b)   Fifteen feet outside the dripline of trees greater than 24
inches DBH.
      (2)   Construction within protective barricades. Changes in grade,
construction of hardened surfaces (pervious or impervious) or utilities within
the required protective barricade shall be permitted subject to the following
standards:
         (a)   Changes in grade and construction of utilities shall comply with
the specification described in The Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control
Handbook, as amended, Chapter III, Standards and Specification 3.37 and 3.38.
         (b)   Construction of hardened surfaces shall not be permitted within
five feet of the base of protected vegetation or within 15 feet of the base of
trees greater than 24 inches DBH, unless special construction methods,
including but not limited to root feeders and porous paving materials, are used
and certified as acceptable by a reputable arborist or qualified organization.
         (c)   All roots outside the protective barricade to be removed during
construction shall be severed clean (root pruned) and a two-inch layer of mulch
shall be applied over the surface of the exposed roots.
         (d)   All pruning of protected vegetation greater than six inches DBH
shall be done in accordance with pruning standards adopted by the National
Arborist Association.
   (E)   Vegetation installation requirements. No new site development,
redevelopment, building, structure or vehicular use area (parking lot,
internal/ external access ways, driveways, etc.) shall hereafter occur, be
erected, constructed or used, nor shall any existing building, structure or
vehicular use area be expanded, unless the minimum vegetation installation
standards below are satisfied:
      (1)   Existing on-site vegetation can be used to satisfy vegetation
installation requirements;
      (2)   Replacement vegetation cannot be used to satisfy vegetation
installation requirements;
      (3)   Vegetation installations can be placed within building setbacks and
the CBPA 100-foot buffers;
      (4)   Except as required below, the need for vegetation installation will
be evaluated within the context of site plan review consistent with this
chapter and the Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation District requirements found in
§
154.2.163.
   (F)   Situations requiring vegetation installation.  In order to accomplish
the purpose of this section, the requirements for vegetation installation apply
in the following situations:
      (1)   Roadway frontage as described in division (G) below;
      (2)   Parking lots - peripheral/interior;
      (3)   Perimeter screening;
      (4)   Refuse collection facilities;
      (5)   Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation Area: 100-foot buffer area if
vegetation is removed.
   (G)   Roadway frontage installation requirements.  On the site of a building
or structure other than a single-family home being used only for residential
purposes, or on an open lot providing off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use, where such area will not be entirely screened visually from all
adjacent public rights-of-way by an intervening building or structure,
vegetation shall be required along any property boundary that abuts the public
right-of-way of a public street, road or highway.
      (1)   A planting area at least five feet in depth shall be located
between the abutting right-of-way and any off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use area, except where permitted driveway openings and pedestrian
ways are to be provided. The planting area shall be planted in accordance with
the following standards:
         (a)   A combination of trees and hedge or approved wall, fence or
earthen berm may be utilized to form the continuous element; and
         (b)   All portions of the planting area where there is no wall, fence,
hedge, or trees shall be planted in grass and/or groundcover.
   (H)   Parking lot peripheral/interior installation requirements. Peripheral
planting shall be provided along any side of an off-street parking, loading, or
other vehicular use area that abuts adjoining property and not a right-of-way
of a public street, road, or highway. Such planting shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   Peripheral parking lot installation requirements. A planting area
at least eight feet in depth shall be located between the abutting property
lines and the parking, loading or other vehicular use area, except where
permitted driveway openings are to be provided. Where drainage or other utility
easements exist along property lines, the planting area shall be located
between the parking, loading or other vehicular use area and the utility or
drainage easements.
      (2)   Interior parking lot planting requirements.  Planting islands shall
be provided such that no more than ten spaces shall be permitted without being
interrupted by a planting island. Planting islands shall consist of shrubs,
canopy trees, and understory trees. Divisions (G) and (H) (1) above shall not
be used to satisfy interior parking lot requirements.
   (I)   Perimeter screening. Perimeter screening shall be required to separate
industrial uses from different land uses or zoning districts.
      (1)   Perimeter screening, generally
         (a)   Perimeter screening defined. Perimeter screening may be one of
two kinds: opaque or semi-opaque.
            1.   Opaque perimeter screening is intended to create a strong
spatial separation and to preclude visual contact. Such screening shall be
opaque in all seasons of the year.
            2.   Semi-opaque perimeter screening is intended to maintain a
sense of spatial separation and to partially block visual contact. Upon
maturity, semi-opaque screening shall not contain any completely unobstructed
opening more than ten feet in width.
         (b)   Perimeter screening shall vary in depth and in planting
requirements according to the existing use or zoning district of the adjoining
property.
         (c)   Perimeter screening shall be located along the perimeter of a
lot or parcel and shall extend to the boundary line of the lot or parcel.
Perimeter screening shall not be located on any portion of an existing public
or private street right-of-way. Where utility or drainage easements exist along
property lines, the perimeter screening shall be located adjacent to the
utility or drainage easement.
         (d)   Required perimeter screening shall be designated as part of
platted lots and/or on an approved site plan. The following notation shall be
lettered on the face of both the preliminary and final subdivision plats and/or
site plans:
   PERIMETER SCREENING: The use and maintenance of the perimeter screening area
and the building of structures thereon is restricted pursuant to §
154.2.105 of the Northampton County Zoning Ordinance.
         (e)   Compliance of planted perimeter screening shall be evaluated on
the basis of average height and density of plant material upon maturity.
Suitability of existing vegetation to fulfill the requirements of planted
perimeter screening shall be determined based upon field analysis of the type
and condition of the vegetation.
      (2)   Schedule of required perimeter screening established. Perimeter
screening for all development and redevelopment shall be required as follows:
         (a)   Existing industrial districts abutting Agriculture District: 75-
foot buffer area with 25 feet of semi-opaque screening or a reduction to a 50-
foot buffer with 50 feet of opaque screening except when the district abuts a
Resource Protection Area as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Existing industrial districts abutting any Conservation, Hamlet/
Residential, Waterfront Hamlet/Residential, Village, Waterfront Village,
Existing Cottage Community/Residential, Existing Subdivision/Residential,
Existing Business, or Town Edge-1, Town Edge/Residential District:  100 foot
buffer area with 50 feet of semi-opaque screening or a reduction to a 75-foot
buffer area with 50 feet opaque screening except when the district abuts a
Resource Protection Area as defined in this chapter.
         (c)   Existing industrial districts abutting any existing Business,
Commercial-1, Town Edge-Neighborhood Business, or Town Edge-Commercial General
District: 25-foot buffer area with ten feet of semi-opaque screening or a
reduction to a 15-foot buffer area with ten feet of opaque screening except
when the districts abuts a Resource Protection Area as defined in this chapter.
         (d)   Existing industrial districts with frontage on U. S. 13: In
addition to the vegetative planting requirements set forth in §
154.2.164, US 13 Corridor District, a 100-foot buffer area with 25 feet of
semi-opaque screening or a reduction to a 75-foot buffer area with 50 feet of
opaque screening except when the district abuts a Resource Protection Area as
defined in this chapter.
         (e)   Existing industrial districts abutting secondary roads: a 100-
foot buffer area with 25 feet of semi-opaque screening or a reduction to a 75-
foot buffer area with 50 feet of opaque screening except when the district
abuts a Resource Protection Area as defined in this chapter.
         (f)   Existing industrial districts abutting a railroad: The Board of
Supervisors may eliminate the buffer area to the extent necessary to provide
transportation access to the railroad.
   (J)   Refuse collection site screening. Refuse collection facilities shall
be screened from view, except around their point(s) of access, by an opaque
enclosure composed of evergreen vegetation, fence, wall or a combination of the
same, except as follows:
      (1)   Where screened from view by an intervening building or structure;
and
      (2)   Excluding views from adjacent properties zoned or used for
industrial purposes.
   (K)   One hundred-foot buffer of Chesapeake/ Atlantic Preservation District.
See §
154.2.163.
   (L)   Submission of a vegetation protection and installation plan (landscape
plan).
      (1)   Application for site plan approval:
         (a)   Applications for site plan approval and building permits under
this chapter shall include a scaled vegetation survey locating all existing
natural vegetation. The site drawing shall also show the proposed construction
footprint and vegetation protection measures.
         (b)   Review standards. The landscape plan shall comply with:
            1.   The requirements of §§
154.2.040 et seq.
            2.   The requirements of §
154.2.163.
            3.   The requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.106 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ROAD FRONTAGE STANDARDS.
   (A)    Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to further the
county's Comprehensive Plan goals of preserving natural resources and rural
character while pursuing improved economic self- sufficiency for all its
citizens. Since progress toward these goals is often focused along the county's
transportation corridors, these goals are best pursued through the promotion of
development that is compatible with the design and capacity of the county
roadways. These standards will:
      (1)   Encourage orderly economic development compatible with the county's
goals and existing communities;
      (2)   Ensure a free flow of traffic and prevent congestion on the
county's principal roads;
      (3)   Minimize adverse economic impacts on existing incorporated towns;
      (4)   Help create a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community.
   (B)    Roadways classified. Accordingly, the roadways of the county are
classified into the following categories:
      (1)   Class I, Main Roads: U.S. Route 13 (Lankford Highway), Business 13,
and State Route 184 (Stone Road);
      (2)   Class II, North/South Secondary Roads: State Rt. 600 (Seaside Road)
and State Routes 618, 619, and 622 (Bayside Road);
      (3)   Class III, Neck Roads: All Bayside Neck roads, including State
Route 183;
      (4)   Class IV, Village Roads: All roads which are within a Rural Village
designated on the county zoning map and all secondary roads within one-half
mile of the Rural Village zoning boundary;
      (5)   Class V, Subdivision Roads: All roads within recorded subdivisions;
      (6)   Class VI, Other Roads: All other named roads.
   (C)    Projects affected require unified plan of development. All proposed
commercial and industrial projects shall address and resolve the following
issues when any portion of the project, whether principal structure, parking
area, accessory structure, or other element necessary to the performance of the
principal use, is within 500 feet of a Class I, II, or III road, or within 200
feet of a Class IV road. The issues shall be addressed through a unified plan
of development which includes a sketch plan to illustrate the project and a
written statement of justification that fully and accurately identifies how the
final site plan will address these elements:
      (1)   Access to Class I, II, III, IV roads shall be limited to one for
ingress/egress and one for egress only/emergency use. No individual business
within a project shall have direct access to these classes of roads. Individual
businesses shall be served by streets internal to the project.
      (2)   Services including water supply, sewage disposal, and storm water
management shall be designed to serve the whole project and in such a manner
that water and sewer lines can easily be tied to public central services when
such central services are available, or become available in the future.
      (3)   Yard requirements shall be as set forth in Appendix B except that
setbacks from public rights-of-way for commercial projects may be relieved to
50 feet when business entrances for customers and parking areas are on the off-
road side of the building(s), the building(s) are screened using the vegetation
standards of §
154.2.105(D), and the project complies with all other requirements of this
section.
      (4)   Utility lines including electric, telephone, cable television and
other similar lines shall be located underground unless required by the utility
company to be otherwise located. Junction and access boxes shall be screened
with vegetation.
      (5)   Outside storage of salvage and unlicensed or inoperable vehicles or
equipment is prohibited. If outside storage of other items or materials is
required, it shall be screened from the view of any public road or adjoining
property by perimeter screening placed according to this chapter.
      (6)   Driveways and parking areas must be in compliance with §§
154.2.205 et seq. All commercial and industrial development is required by
Chesapeake/ Atlantic Preservation District regulations to minimize impervious
surfaces in order to promote infiltration of stormwater into the ground;
therefore, grid and pervious pavers, or other suitable pervious materials may
be used for any required driveway or parking area, and curb and gutters may be
minimized through the use of grass strips and swales.
      (7)   Loading areas shall be designed so as to minimize visibility from
every class of road or from any project perimeter which, at the time of
construction, adjoins a residential zoning district.
      (8)   Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that light is directed in
such a manner that it does not affect traffic adversely on any class of road
and is directed on-site and away from adjoining properties. All exterior
lighting shall not exceed 0.5 footcandles above background when measured at the
lot line of any adjoining property.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.107 AIRPORT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is, for the general
welfare of the county and for safety of air navigation, to provide guidance and
standards for those landowners within the county who wish to construct an
airport facility or airstrip and to ensure that impacts on nearby landowners
and the citizens of the county are fully mitigated. It is also to ensure that
citizens have the opportunity to understand what is being proposed and to
comment at public hearings.
   (B)   Airport defined. AIRPORT shall be any facility designed for the
purpose of allowing aircraft to take off or to land. In Northampton County, an
airport shall be further defined as one or more of the following types:
      (1)   Type H, Heliports. Any airport designed for the takeoff and landing
of helicopters, with a landing area not greater than 10,000 square feet and a
surface of either grass or pavement as specified in its special use permit.
      (2)   Type U/LS, Ultralight/Light Sport.  Any airport landing strip
designed for use of aircraft defined by FAA as being ultralight. Its maximum
dimensions shall be 50 feet by 1,000 feet and its surface shall be grass/turf.
      (3)   Type P, Private Personal. Any airport designed for the private,
personal use of the applicant and the applicant's family. Its maximum
dimensions shall be 60 feet by 3,000 feet and its surface shall be grass/turf.
      (4)   Type M, Private Multiple Users. Any airport designed for the
private, noncommercial use of subdivision lot owners, or other nearby
landowners. Airport Type M is intended to have multiple users who may have
personal or corporate airplanes or helicopters which use the landing strip and
are hangered near or adjacent to the airport. Its maximum dimensions shall be
60 feet by 3,000 feet and its surface shall be grass/turf.
      (5)   Type A, Agricultural. Any airport where aircraft may take off or
land for the purpose of applying agricultural chemicals. Its maximum dimensions
shall be 60 feet by 3,000 feet.
      (6)   Type C, Commercial (Public). Any airport where aircraft of all
types may take off or land to perform any of the above uses and to discharge or
receive cargo and/or passengers and where fuel, maintenance and other support
infrastructure are available. Such an airport may be either privately owned by
an individual, partnership, or corporation; or it may be publicly owned by an
incorporated town, city, county, state, federal government, or a public
authority whose purpose is to operate such an airport. This section places no
limit on dimension or surface type or the landing areas of a Type C Airport,
although such specification may be made through special use permit or
conditional zoning that permits a Type C Airport. The application and approval
process requires detailed development plans and approval of the proposed
facility by the Virginia Department of Aviation and the Federal Aviation
Administration.
   (C)   Airport type to be disclosed.
      (1)   In addition to the submission requirements for SUPs and/or
rezonings, any applicant for a special use permit or rezoning that would allow
an airport to be developed shall disclose in the application for such SUP or
rezoning which type(s) of airport are proposed to be operated along with a
statement disclosing:
         (a)   All approvals for the use already received;
         (b)   All approvals for the use that still need to be obtained;
         (c)   All anticipated impacts of the proposed use (including, but not
limited to, noise, use and disposal of hazardous materials, safety at the
facility in the event of an air or ground accident, and traffic generation and
access to the facility) and how they will be mitigated by the applicant.
      (2)   A change or addition in the type of an existing airport use shall
require a new or amended SUP or rezoning with additional public hearing
processes.
   (D)   Runway orientation. Applicants for a special use permit or rezoning
proposing a new or expanded airport shall identify the locations of existing
airports when justifying the orientation of new runways.
      (1)   All existing airports within a radius of 10,000 feet of the
proposed landing area shall be shown at an appropriate scale on a sheet of the
plat/ plan (the existing airports sheet) submitted with the SUP or rezoning
application.
      (2)   The extended centerline of existing runways shall be indicated on
the existing airports sheet of the application's plat/plan to a length of
10,000 feet from each end of the existing runways.
      (3)   The extended centerline of the proposed runway shall not intersect
that of an existing runway any closer to the end of the existing runway than
the distance in feet specified in the following table:
 
Existing Airport New Airport Type
                 H     U/LS  P, A  M     C
H                NA    2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000
U/LS             2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000
P, A             2,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 10,000
M                2,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 10,000
C                2,000 4,000 4,000 4,000 10,000
 
      (4)   If extended centerlines intersect at a point closer to the existing
airport runway than indicated in the table, then the proposed runway shall be
reoriented so that its placement complies with the table distances.
   (E)   Runway over run areas. Any overrun areas proposed by the applicant or
required as a condition of a special use permit or rezoning shall be clearly
marked on the application's plat/plan and shall be designed and used only for
emergency use, not for regular use in normal take offs and landings.
   (F)   Runway and landing area setbacks. The endpoints of all proposed
runways or helicopter landing areas shall be no closer to the applicant's
property line than 250 feet. Within this setback area there shall be no
structures.
   (G)   Airports and nearby development. For airport types H, U, P, M, and A,
it shall be the responsibility of the applicant/owner to limit any nearby
development which might interfere with runway approaches through the
acquisition of easements or other agreements from nearby property owners and
the recordation of such easements with the Clerk of the Court. The extent and
scope of areas and types of limitations on development to be included in such
easements or agreement shall be based upon the characteristics of the proposed
airport and the aircraft anticipated to use that facility. For Airport Type C
an Airport Protection Overlay zone may be requested by the airport operators
and granted by the Board of Supervisors as specified in §
154.2.162.
   (H)   Agreement on rules of the air. For airport types H, P, M, A, and C
applicant shall contact the owners/operators of existing Type P, M, A, and C
airports within 10,000 feet and propose a Rules of the Air Agreement. Such an
agreement shall propose runway approach patterns, radio frequencies and other
safety procedures that may be proposed for the new airport. Existing airport
owner/operators shall have the opportunity to make alternative suggestions.
Northampton County encourages airport operators to come to a mutual agreement
on such safety procedures. However, if such mutual agreement cannot be reached,
the applicant for a new airport shall propose approach patterns and radio
frequencies which shall become public information through the public hearing
process and inclusion in the minutes of the Planning Commission and Board of
Supervisors.
   (I)   Virginia Department of Aviation (VDA) evaluation. Any applicant for a
SUP or rezoning that will allow an airport to be developed shall submit the
proposal, including runway specifications, runway orientation, over-run areas,
Rules of the Air proposals and agreements, and any other relevant information,
to the Virginia Department of Aviation (VDA) for evaluation and comment. The
VDA response shall be made available to the county staff before any public
hearings are scheduled.
   (J)   Additional standard for heliports and helipads. If any passengers are
to be carried on a helicopter, compliance with Federal Aviation Administration
standards for helicopter parking position marking and passenger walkways is
required.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.108 AFFORDABLE HOUSING INCENTIVES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of Northampton County to work
toward realistic and practical solutions for its workforce and affordable
housing needs. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To establish an incentive to encourage developers to assist with
solutions for housing needs;
      (2)   To establish development standards to assist land owners,
developers, health department officials, and local housing officials in finding
creative solutions for housing problems;
      (3)   To promote a full range of housing choices and to encourage the
construction and continued existence of moderately priced housing.
   (B)   Affordable, low and moderate income (LMI), housing defined. In the
context of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
      (1)   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. See definition for AFFORDABLE HOUSING as
contained in §
154.2.003;
      (2)   VERY LOW INCOME. Individual or family earning 50% or less of the
current area median income;
      (3)   LOW INCOME. Individual or family earning 50% to 80% of the current
area median income;
      (4)   MIDDLE INCOME. Individual or family earning 80% to 120% of the
current area median income;
      (5)   LMI. An abbreviation for low and middle income used here to mean
all three of the income categories defined above;
      (6)   WORKFORCE. Households whose primary source of income is from W-
2 wages and whose income ranges between the weekly income available from a
minimum-wage salary and the weekly income available from the current "average
wage" salary as defined for Northampton County by the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics.
   (C)    Affordable housing oversight and planning.  The Northampton County
Board of Supervisors designates as its agent the Accomack-Northampton Regional
Housing Authority, hereinafter "the agent." The agent is charged with the
responsibility for:
      (1)   Ensuring that units said to be affordable LMI units meet that
definition in fact;
      (2)   Assisting landowners and developers planning affordable LMI units;
      (3)   The agent for the Board of Supervisors shall report directly to the
Board any violation of this provision and shall recommend enforcement action to
the Zoning Administrator, who shall be responsible for carrying out such
enforcement action.
   (D)    Affordable housing density bonus.
      (1)   Rezonings. When a rezoning application is made which includes the
provision of affordable housing units (AHUs), the Board may approve a density
increase up to 10% higher than otherwise allowed in the zoning district. In
determining the percentage of increased density, the Board may consider the
conformance of the proposed project with the Comprehensive Plan, the design of
the project, the number of AHUs proposed, the community need for affordable and
workforce housing in the area of the proposal, the impacts of the development,
and whether the application and any proffers mitigate the impacts of the
proposal.
      (2)   Special use permit for use of existing non-residential buildings.
         (a)   When a special use permit application is made to establish
dwelling units pursuant to §
154.2.126(D), the establishment of more than one dwelling unit shall be subject
to the provision of affordable housing units as follows:
            1.   Two units, 50% or one unit must be an affordable housing unit;
            2.   Three units, 33% or one unit must be an affordable housing
unit; and
            3.   Four units or more, 25% of all units must be affordable
housing units.
         (b)   Applicants shall identify the manner in which such affordable
housing units will be provided, subject to approval as part of the special use
permit
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 154.2.109 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
siting of wireless telecommunication service facilities. The goals are to:
         (a)   Promote the general safety, welfare, and quality of life for
county residents;
         (b)   Assure availability of wireless telecommunication and wireless
broadband service to the public;
         (c)   Discourage the location of telecommunication towers greater than
100 feet in height in residential, historic and environmentally- sensitive
areas;
         (d)   Encourage co-location on existing facilities, and on existing
buildings and structures for low power local wireless broadband service; and
         (e)   Minimize adverse impacts, including visual impacts, on areas
caused by tower/ monopole sites.
      (2)   Before new wireless communications facilities are constructed, and
in order to minimize the need for new towers, it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the county that it is not feasible from either engineering or
coverage bases to co-locate on existing buildings, structures, and towers.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more whips, panels, discs, or similar devices under
20 feet height used for the transmission or reception of radio frequency
signals, which may include omni-directional antenna (whip, satellite dish),
directional antenna (panel, microwave dish), and parabolic antenna (disc), but
not including satellite earth stations. The antenna array does not include the
support structure as defined in this section.
      ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNI-CATIONS FACILITY (ATTACHED WCF).  An antenna
array that is attached or affixed to an existing building or structure
(including but not limited to a utility pole, sign, or water tower), along with
any transmission cables and accompanying pole or device that attaches or
affixes the antenna array to the existing building or structure.
      BREAKPOINT LENGTH. The distance from the designed breaking point to the
top of the structure.
      BREAKPOINT TECHNOLOGY. The engineering design of a tower, mast or
monopole wherein a specified point on the structure is designed to have
stresses concentrated so that the point is at least 5% more susceptible to
failure than any other point along the structure so that, in the event of a
structural failure, the failure will occur at the breakpoint rather than at the
base plate, anchor bolts or any other point on the structure.
      CO-LOCATION or COLLOCATION. Use of a common WCF or common support
structure by two or more wireless communications license holders or by one
wireless communications license holder for more than one type of communications
technology, or, placement of a WCF on a structure owned or operated by a
utility or other public entity, or placement of an attached WCF.
      EQUIPMENT FACILITY. Any accessory structure used to contain ancillary
equipment for WCFs, which may include cabinets, small shelters, pedestals, or
other similar structures.
      LOCAL WIRELESS BROADBAND SERVICE (LWBS). Low power wireless radio
transmitting in the industrial science and manufacturing (ISM) bands as
regulated by the FCC part 15 rules and regulations for wireless equipment, to
provide access to the Eastern Shore of Virginia Broadband Authority fiber optic
cable system of internet and data transmission services in all areas of the
county, originating from area hubs via point-to- point and point-to-multipoint
wireless connections to the end users.
      LOW POWER TRANSMISSION. Transmitting under the FCC Part 15 regulation ISM
radio bands. The ISM bands are defined by the International Telecommunication
Union Regulations (ITU-R) in 5.138, 5.150, and 5.280 of the ITU Radio
Regulations. FCC Part 15 controls power outputs and how unlicensed equipment
should behave in these radio-bands.
      SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna array, and may include a monopole, tower, mast, stayed mast
and other similar structures. Any device used to attach an attached WCF to an
existing building or structure shall be excluded from this and the following
definitions.
         (a)   MAST. A vertical antenna support mounted on some other
structure, which itself may be a tower, building or vehicle.
         (b)   MONOPOLE. A single self- supporting vertical pole structure that
is attached to the ground, tapering from base to top and supporting a fixture
designed to hold one or more antennas.
         (c)   NON-MONOPOLE TOWER. A vertical lattice structure, guyed or self-
supporting, that is attached to the ground and designed to support antennas.
         (d)   STAYED MAST. A mast supported by stays or guy wires designed to
support antennas.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Any wireless services as defined in the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 which includes Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) licensed commercial wireless telecommunications services
including cellular, personal communications services (PCS), specialized mobile
radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging, and other
similar services that currently exist or that may in the future be developed.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WCF). Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless communications services, usually
consisting of an antenna array, transmission cables, equipment facilities, and
a support structure.
   (C) Performance standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied to all WCFs.
      (1)   Antenna arrays. Structure-mounted and roof-mounted antennas and
related unmanned equipment may be developed subject to the performance
standards below.
         (a)   An antenna array is permitted by right to co-locate on any
existing guyed tower, lattice tower, monopole, electric utility transmission
tower, fire tower, water tower, or building, provided that the installation of
the new facility does not increase the height of the existing structure by more
than 20 feet, to a maximum of 199 feet, subject to the other standards included
herein. Such installations shall not require a special use permit but shall
require site plan approval by the county and shall be added to the county
inventory of wireless facilities. Any increase in height of an existing
structure greater than 20 feet shall require a special use permit; however,
under no circumstances shall the total height of a structure exceed 199 feet.
         (b)   Satellite and microwave dishes attached to towers and monopoles
shall not exceed six feet in diameter.
         (c)   Omnidirectional antennas shall be of a material or color which
matches the exterior of the building or structure.
         (d)   Directional or panel antennas shall be of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building or structure.
         (e)   No commercial advertising shall be allowed on any antenna.
         (f)   Signals or lights or illumination shall not be permitted on any
antenna unless required by the FCC, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA),
or any other state or federal authority.
      (2)   Support structures. WCF support structures requiring a special use
permit shall comply with the performance standards below.
         (a)   Where technically and reasonably feasible, monopoles will be
considered preferable to lattice structures.
         (b)   New support structures and equipment facilities shall be subject
to the site plan review and approval requirements set forth herein. Approval of
a site plan is required before a building permit is issued.
         (c)   Unless otherwise required by the FCC or the FAA, the proposed
WCF shall harmonize with development in the vicinity with respect to color,
lighting, materials, and architecture. In addition, the facility shall be
located within the interior of the property and screened by any existing
vegetation to the extent practicable.
         (d)   New support structures in excess of 150 feet in height shall be
designed to accommodate at least three providers, but not so many as to
necessitate a very tall, thick tower.
         (e)   The maximum height of a WCF shall be 199 feet.
         (f)   Support structures shall be designed to collapse within the lot
lines or lease lines, if leased area does not conform to property lot lines, in
case of structural failure.
         (g)   No signals, lights, or illumination shall be permitted on a
tower or monopole, unless required by the FCC, the FAA, or other state or
federal authorities.
         (h)   No commercial advertising or signs shall be allowed on a tower,
monopole, or associated structures.
         (i)   No tower or monopole shall be located within a designated
historic district.
         (j)   Applicants for a special use permit for any WCF greater than 100
feet in height shall demonstrate that they have complied with applicable
regulations of the FCC and the FAA. A finding by the FAA that the proposed
facility is not a hazard or obstruction to aviation shall be a condition for
the issuance of any special use permit.
         (k)   To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the owner of a
tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained
in applicable federal, state, and local building codes and regulations.
         (l)   The following setback requirements shall apply to all support
structures:
            1.   Support structures greater than 100 feet in height, with or
without breakpoint technology, must be set back from any off-site residential
structure no less than 400 feet and set back from any property line a minimum
of 150 feet.
            2.   Guy wires and accessory facilities must be set back a minimum
of 25 feet from any property line.
            3.   Support structures between 50 feet and 100 feet in height
which are allowed by right must be set back from any off site residential
structure or property line no less than 110% of the height of the structure or
110% of the breakpoint length for a qualifying breakpoint technology structure.
            4.   Support structures between 50 feet and 100 feet in height
which require a minor special use permit must observe the minimum setbacks for
the zoning district in which they are located or 100% of the breakpoint
distance for a qualifying breakpoint technology structure. If a structure is
proposed to be located on a property situated adjacent to a property with a
residence, an additional setback may be considered during the special use
permit review process.
            5.   Support structures 50 feet or less in height must be setback
from property lines at least 110% of the height of the structure.
            6.   If lesser setbacks than those stipulated above are desired, a
special exception may be sought utilizing the minor special use permit process,
including a reduction of the setback to zero when adjoining property owners do
not object.
            7.   In instances where all adjoining property owners give written
approval for the installation of a support structure under 100 feet in height,
the setback may be reduced to zero without a special use permit.
         (m)   WCFs greater than 100 feet in height shall be enclosed by
security fencing no less than eight feet in height and equipped with an
appropriate anti-climbing device. The fence shall have a 24-hour emergency
phone number posted. Support structures greater than 50 feet in height shall
have anti-climbing shields installed and display industry-standard warning
signs along with 24 hour emergency phone numbers.
         (n)   The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding WCFs.
            1.   WCFs greater than 100 feet in height shall be landscaped and
maintained with a buffer of plant materials that effectively screen the view of
the support buildings from adjacent properties. The standard buffer shall
consist of a landscaped strip at least four feet wide outside the perimeter of
the facilities.
            2.   Existing vegetation may be removed only as authorized during
the site plan review process to permit construction of the WCF and installation
of vehicular and utility access.
         (o)   Noise generated by the facility shall be limited to 50 DBA above
ambient levels except when a back-up generator is needed.
      (3)   Submission requirements. Applicants for a special use permit under
this section shall submit the following information.
         (a)   Documentation in written and graphic form regarding the service
area to be provided by the proposed WCF. This shall include propagation maps
demonstrating that the facility, with co-location capabilities, is no higher in
elevation than necessary.
         (b)   A scaled plan, a scaled elevation view, and other supporting
drawings, calculations, and other documentation, signed and sealed by
appropriate licensed professionals, showing the location and dimensions of all
improvements, including information concerning topography, radio frequency
coverage, tower height requirements, setbacks, drives, parking, fencing,
landscaping and adjacent uses. The Zoning Administrator, the Planning
Commission, or the Board of Supervisors may require other information to assess
compliance with this chapter. Additionally, the applicant shall provide actual
photographs of the site that include a simulated photographic image of the
proposed tower. The photograph with the simulated image shall include the
foreground, the midground, and the background of the site.
         (c)   An engineering report which includes a statement of
justification for the proposed site selection. The Zoning Administrator may
require a review by a professional licensed engineer of any of the information
required above. The costs incurred by Northampton County for such review shall
be paid by the applicant.
         (d)   The applicant must submit a written commitment to the county
that they shall allow other wireless carriers to co-locate antennas and other
wireless facilities on the proposed facility.
         (e)   Each applicant for a WCF shall provide to the Department of
Planning and Zoning a comprehensive plan of its existing facilities in
Northampton County, its anticipated facility needs, and probable future
location sites. The Department of Planning and Zoning shall maintain an
inventory of wireless facility sites and may share such information with other
applicants applying for approvals or special use permits under this chapter or
other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the
locality, provided, however, that the Department of Planning and Zoning shall
not, by sharing information, in any way represent or warrant that such sites
are available or suitable.
      (4)   Applicants shall demonstrate a good-faith effort to co-locate with
other service providers. Such demonstration shall include evidence of contact
with all other licensed carriers operating in the county and written
justification from said carriers and the applicant if co-location is not
feasible. In the event that other carriers refuse to respond to the applicant,
submittal of certified mail receipts and copies of correspondence shall be
considered demonstration of good-faith effort. In determining the feasibility
of co-location, the following factors will be considered.
         (a)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic areas required to meet applicant's engineering and coverage
requirements.
         (b)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering and coverage requirements.
         (c)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antennas and related equipment.
         (d)   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
         (e)   The fees, costs, or contractual provision required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are patently unreasonable objectively.
         (f)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
   (D)   Removal of abandoned WCFs. A bond shall be required to assure removal
of an obsolete WCF greater than 50 feet in height. Any antenna or tower that is
not operated for a continuous period of 24 months shall be considered
abandoned, and the owner of each such antenna or tower shall remove the WCF
within 90 days of receipt of notice from Northampton County notifying the owner
of such removal equipment requirement. REMOVAL is defined as leveling
structures to the ground and legally removing the materials from the site. If
there are two or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not
become effective until all users cease using the tower. The site shall be
restored to its original condition after removal is complete.
   (E)   Required yearly report. The owner of each such WCF shall submit a
report to the Northampton County Department of Planning and Zoning once a year,
no later than July 1. The report shall state the current user status of the
tower.
   (F)   Special use permit review. Each special use permit approved for a WCF
shall be reviewed at least every three years. While no additional fees or
public hearing shall be required, the applicant shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator that a good faith effort has been made
to cooperate with other providers to establish co-location at the tower site.
Such cooperation shall include timely responses to co-location inquiries from
other providers and sharing of technical information to evaluate the
feasibility of establishing co-location. The owner/operator will also be
evaluated for compliance over the period with any other terms and conditions of
the special use permit.
   (G)   Provisions for amateur radio antennas.  Amateur radio antennas are
exempt from the portions of these regulations that pertain to co-location.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.110 DOMESTIC HUSBANDRY, TRADITIONAL HUSBANDRY AND INTENSIVE FARMING
USES, FACILITIES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)    Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
continued viability of Northampton County's agricultural sector by encouraging
the orderly and responsible management of riding/boarding and equine training
facilities, livestock, dairy, and poultry operations. This section establishes
standards consistent with Virginia's "Right to Farm" legislation for the
conduct of both intensive and non-intensive livestock operations in a manner
that will be harmonious with other types of land uses. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency recognizes that concentrated animal husbandry may have the
potential to contribute pollutants such as nitrogen and phosphorus, organic
matter, sediments, pathogens, heavy metals, hormones, antibiotics, and ammonia
to the environment. Excess nutrients in water (i.e., nitrogen and phosphorus)
can result in or contribute to low levels of dissolved oxygen, eutrophication,
and toxic algal blooms. These excess nutrients can pose a direct threat to
Northampton County's established aquaculture industry and must be managed
responsibly.
      Findings. The Board hereby finds that the standards in this section were
established by considering their impact on the agriculture, aquaculture and
tourism industries in the county, on the proximity of A/RB Districts to
extensive surface water resources, and on the proximity of established
residential villages, hamlets, and other rural neighborhoods to the A/RB
Districts.
The Board further finds that one or more substantial impacts on the public
health, safety, or welfare have been identified when these standards are set by
this section.
These substantial impacts, and the thresholds and standards related thereto,
are based upon the comprehensive plan, study and existing state standards.
In addition, the board finds that the thresholds and standards established
herein are the minimum necessary in order to satisfy the relevant policies,
goals, and objectives of the comprehensive plan without allowing the activities
and structures permitted by this section to cause substantial impacts and
thereby endanger the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. The following applicable definitions are in addition to
those set forth in §
154.2.003.
      AMMONIA SCRUBBERS. Machines utilized in intensive poultry facilities for
the purpose of removing ammonia gases from the air discharged by confinement
buildings that house poultry.
      COMPOST SHED. Free standing buildings built for the purpose of
stockpiling and composting carcasses of dead poultry.
      MANURE STORAGE. Freestanding buildings built for the purpose of
stockpiling and composting manure derived from intensive livestock facilities
or intensive poultry facilities.
      MATURE WOODLANDS. Land occupied by native trees and under-story
vegetation of at least 20 years of age.
   (C)   Minimum requirements for traditional farm-based livestock husbandry.
Livestock facilities shall be situated on five acres or more, excluding
federally defined tidal and non-tidal wetlands.
   (D)   The minimum lot size for equine riding/boarding and training
facilities shall be one acre per horse.
   (E)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Setbacks for domestic livestock husbandry.
         (a)   Accessory buildings must conform to standards already
established in particular zoning districts.
         (b)   Livestock handling or containment areas shall be set back a
minimum of 100 feet from any shoreline.
         (c)   Limits of pasture may extend to the landward edge of a Resource
Protection Area as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   Setbacks for traditional farm-based livestock husbandry.
         (a)   Livestock structures shall be situated according to the
following setbacks:
            1.   From a public road right-of-way: 100 feet.
            2.   From property lines: 100 feet.
            3.   From tidal waters, wetlands, and perennial streams: 150 feet.
         (b)   Livestock handling or containment areas and limits of pasture(s)
shall be situated according to the following setbacks.
            1.   From a public road right-of-way: 0 feet.
            2.   From property lines: 10 feet.
            3.   From tidal waters, wetlands, and perennial streams: 100 feet
      (3)   Setbacks for CAFOs, AFOs and manure storage and compost structures.
Facilities shall be situated according to the following setbacks:
         (a)   From a public road right-of-way: 1,000 feet.
         (b)   From the limits of an incorporated town or Town Edge District:
1,500 feet.
         (c)   From Villages, Waterfront Villages, Hamlet/Residential,
Waterfront Hamlet/ Residential, Existing Cottage Community/Residential, and
Existing Subdivision/Residential Districts: 1,500 feet.
         (d)   From any property line: 1,000 feet.
         (e)   From tidal waters: 2,000 feet.
   (F)   Minimum requirements for CAFOs.
      (1)   Compost sheds must be operational upon commencement of the facility
operation.
      (2)   Manure storage must be operational at the commencement of the
facility operation.
      (3)   An opaque perimeter screening as established in §
154.2.105(I), Landscape plan requirements and standards, shall be installed and
maintained. This perimeter screening shall be opaque in all seasons of the year
and upon maturity shall not contain any unobstructed openings from the ground
level up to eight feet in height.
   (G)   Animal waste handling. All animal wastes must be contained so that
none are allowed to enter a Resource Protection Area. All manure storage must
be at least 1,000 feet from a property line.
   (H)   Lagoons. Lagoons to serve livestock compounds may be permitted with a
special use permit.
   (I)   Submittals required. No CAFOs are permitted until the developer has
submitted to the county the following: a Nutrient Management Plan, a Stormwater
Management Plan and an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, approved by the
appropriate agencies. The County reserves its right to ensure any such plans
are consistent with County Ordinances, including this chapter. In addition, the
operator must submit for county approval, a Contingency Plan for fire response,
emergency response, public health response and vector control.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.111 AGRICULTURAL IRRIGATION PONDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
continued availability of surface waters for agriculture, horticulture and
viticulture crop lands, and recreation while providing for the protection of
the sole source aquifer and keeping excavation spoils in place.
   (B)   Requirement for any pond. A zoning clearance pursuant to requirements
of §
154.2.040 herein shall be required for any dug or impounded pond to ensure that
any land disturbance associated with pond installation is set back a minimum of
100 feet from the property lines of adjacent parcels. Any pond installation
must comply with all applicable zoning requirements, even if deemed exempt from
the requirements of the Northampton County Erosion and Sediment Control
Ordinance.
   (C)   Agricultural irrigation ponds shall comply with the standards below:
      (1)   If the construction of the agricultural irrigation pond involves
wetlands, a copy of any wetlands permits or approvals must be provided.
Excavated material shall not be placed within wetlands or resource protection
area features.
      (2)   A safety shelf at least 15 feet wide shall surround the perimeter
of the pond. A safety shelf is an unobstructed level area from the edge of the
pond to any property line, structure or vertical feature such as a wooded area
or stockpile of excavated material.
      (3)   Pumps and mechanical equipment shall be placed in areas furthest
away from adjacent non-agricultural district property lines.
      (4)   A waiver or exception must be obtained when a pond is proposed to
be located within any of the resource protection area features as described in
§
154.2.163 Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation Areas (CAP).
      (5)   The edge of an agricultural irrigation pond shall be set back 100
feet from any property line, except that the setback may be reduced in the
following manner:
         (a)   If the safety shelf is increased to 75 feet between the pond and
property line, the setback to property where the safety shelf is provided is
reduced to 75 feet.
         (b)   If a wooded area of 35 feet is provided between the pond and
property line with a minimum 15 foot safety shelf, the setback to the property
line in that area is reduced to 50 feet. The wooded area shall be in compliance
with §
154.2.105 Landscape plan requirements and standards and designed to meet the
density standards of a semi-opaque perimeter screening.
         (c)   If all stock piles of excavated soil shall be leveled and spread
over the property in areas that are not resource protection area features or
wetlands, or the excavated soil shall be properly removed in compliance with
NCC Chapter 153: Erosion and Sediment Control and state mining regulations from
the property, the setback is reduced to 25 feet with a minimum 15 foot safety
shelf.
         (d)   If the agricultural irrigation pond involves two or more
properties in which the owners share use and/or ownership of the pond, the
setback is reduced to zero feet along the shared property line(s), provided
that said shared use and/or ownership runs with the land and is reflected in a
deed or deed of easement that is recorded in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit
Court of Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.112 GENERAL LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide outdoor
lighting standards that will improve safety, minimize glare and light trespass
in order to preserve the county's rural character, maintain ease of
astronomical viewing, reduce light interference with migratory birds, and
conserve energy for businesses and residents of Northampton County.
   (B)   Applicability. Except as provided in division (G), all installations
of commercial, industrial, and residential outdoor lighting fixtures and the
replacement of existing outdoor lighting fixtures shall meet the requirements
of this section. Replacement of a fixture shall mean a change of fixture type
or change to the mounting height or location of a fixture. Routine lighting
fixture maintenance, such as changing lamps or light bulbs, ballast, starter,
photo control, housing, lenses and other similar components, shall not
constitute replacement and shall be permitted provided such changes do not
result in a higher lumen output.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CUTOFF. A fixture that emits no more than 2.5% of its light above 90
degrees and no more than 10% above 80 degrees from horizontal. (Illuminating
Engineering Society of North America definition)
      FULL CUTOFF. A fixture that emits 0% of its light above 90 degrees and no
more than 10% above 80 degrees from horizontal. (IESNA definition)
      GLARE. The sensation produced by a bright source within the visual field
that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted to
cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility. The
magnitude of glare depends on such factors as the size, position, brightness of
the source, and on the brightness level to which the eyes are adapted.
      ILLUMINANCE. The amount of luminous flux per unit of area. Illuminance is
measured in foot candles.
      LIGHT TRESPASS. Light that falls beyond the property it is intended to
illuminate.
      LUMEN. Unit of luminous flux; used to measure the amount of light emitted
by lamps.
      MAINTAINED ILLUMINANCE LEVEL. A percentage of the initial illuminance
level reported as part of the photometric plan.
      OUTDOOR LIGHTING FIXTURE. The complete lighting assembly, less the
support assembly.
      SEMI-CUTOFF. A lighting fixture that emits no more than 5% of its light
above 90 degrees and no more than 20% above 80 degrees from horizontal. (IESNA
definition)
   (D)   Outdoor lighting standards.
      (1)   Shielding standards.
         (a)   All nonexempt outdoor lighting fixtures with an initial output
greater than or equal to 7,000 lumens shall be full cutoff.
         (b)   All nonexempt outdoor lighting fixtures with an initial output
of less than 7,000 lumens may be semi-cutoff, cutoff, or full cutoff.
         (c)   All outdoor lighting fixtures that have semi-cutoff, cutoff, or
full cutoff restrictions shall be installed and maintained in such a manner as
to be horizontal to the ground so that the cutoff characteristics of the
fixture are maintained.
         (d)   Beyond the cutoff requirements set forth in division (D)(1)(a)
through (c) above, all light fixtures shall be located, aimed, or shielded so
as to minimize light trespass across property boundaries. Where applicable, all
commercial installations shall utilize shielding to minimize light trespass on
residential properties.
      (2)   Maximum maintained illuminance levels.  No outdoor lighting shall
be installed to exceed the maximum maintained illuminance levels recommended by
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) for the
designated activity. When no maximum level is defined by IESNA, no lighting
shall be installed to exceed 175% of the minimum maintained illuminance levels
as recommended by the IESNA for the designated activity unless otherwise
permitted in this code.
      (3)   Off-site spill. In no case shall lighting exceed 0.5-foot candles
above background when measured at the lot line of the illuminated property.
      (4)   Reduced lighting levels. Lighting levels shall be reduced to
applicable security levels as set forth by IESNA within 30 minutes after the
end of the business activity.
      (5)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting sources, including but not
limited to lighting for parking, access drives, walkways, gasoline canopy
lighting, and internally and externally illuminated signs shall be designed,
located, and arranged so as not to direct light on adjoining streets or
residential properties. The intensity at adjoining streets or residential
properties shall not exceed 0.5-foot candles.
   (E)   Special uses.
      (1)   Recreational sports facilities lighting. Outdoor lighting fixtures
shall be designed and installed to direct light onto the primary playing area
and to minimize light pollution and light trespass. Fields must be lighted only
while in use. Direct illumination is confined to within the property lines of
the recreational use. Illumination must cease within one hour of the event
conclusion.
      (2)   Service station canopies. The maximum maintained illuminance level
is 35-foot candles.
      (3)   Outdoor advertising signs. Externally illuminated signs shall be
lighted from the top down, and lighting shall be directed to minimize glare and
light spill to non-sign areas.
      (4)   Facade lighting. Shielded and directional fixtures are required and
must be installed and aimed so as to minimize glare, sky glow and light
trespass.
      (5)   Flag lighting. Shielded and directional fixtures are required and
must be installed and aimed so as to minimize glare, sky glow and light
trespass.
   (F)   Photometric light plans. Photometric light plans shall be required if
there is outdoor illumination over 100,000 lumens, drawn at the same scale as
the site plan. A photometric light plan may be required for outdoor
illumination of 100,000 lumen or less at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator for a plan of development, site development plan, zoning map
amendment, special use application or building permit application. The
requirements for photometric light plans are as follows:
      (1)   A photometric light plan shall be prepared by a lighting
professional who is certified by the National Council on Qualifications for the
Lighting Professions (NCQLP), or a state licensed professional engineer and
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The location on the premises of all lighting fixtures, both
proposed and existing on the site, including a schematic layout of proposed
outdoor lighting fixture locations that depict intensities and uniformity, and
the light coverage resulting from the proposed lighting layout.
         (b)   Description of all lighting fixtures, both proposed and
existing, which shall include but are not limited to catalog cuts and
illustrations by manufacturers that describe the equipment, including lamp
types, wattages and initial lumen outputs, angle cut-off light emissions and
glare control devices, lamps, switching devices, and proposed placement of all
fixtures, including engineering detail of fixtures, manufacturer, model, and
installation of same.
         (c)   Proposed hours of operation.
         (d)   The provision for adequate measures to mitigate nuisance from
light pollution and unsafe glare to both on-site and off-site uses.
         (e)   A site plan drawn to scale showing building(s), landscaping,
parking areas and proposed exterior lighting fixtures.
         (f)   The location of all post, canopy, supports and light fixtures
(including the height of each fixture and for any building, structure, parking,
display and loading areas).
         (g)   All pole mounted and building mounted fixtures and a numerical
25- foot by 25-foot grid of lighting levels, in foot-candles, that the fixtures
will produce on the ground (photometric report). The photometric report will
indicate the minimum and maximum foot candle levels within the lighted area of
the site.
      (2)   The photometric plan shall include a maintenance schedule.
      (3)   Two hard copies and one electronic copy of the photometric light
plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review and approval.
The review and approval shall be conducted following the same process as
provided for a plan of development.
      (4)   Plan requirements. Upon written request with justification, the
Zoning Administrator may modify submission requirements of division (F) (1)
above, if it is determined that some information is not necessary for the
adequate review of the photometric plan.
   (G)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section:
      (1)   Lighting fixtures and standards required by the Federal
Communications Commission, Federal Aviation Administration, Federal and State
Occupational Safety and Health Administrations, or other federal, state, or
county agencies.
      (2)   Temporary holiday lighting fixtures, provided that such fixtures do
not cause disabling glare.
      (3)   Motion activated light fixtures located as follows:
         (a)   On lots developed with private residential dwellings when such
lighting fixtures emit initial lighting levels of 6,000 lumens or less, are
extinguished within five minutes upon cessation of motion and are aimed such
that the lamp or light bulb portion of the lighting fixture is not visible at
five feet above the property boundary; or
         (b)   On all other lots when such lighting fixtures are aimed such
that the lamp or light bulb portion of the lighting fixture is not directly
visible at five feet above the property boundary.
      (4)   On lots developed with private residential dwellings, outdoor
lighting fixtures with initial light outputs of 2,000 lumens or less. A 2,000
lumen output is the approximate light level produced with a 100-watt
incandescent light bulb.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-2023)
§ 154.2.113 STANDARDS FOR WIND TURBINES AND WINDMILLS FOR ON-SITE RESIDENTIAL
OR COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION AND USE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that:
      (1)   Wind energy is a renewable energy resource that contributes to the
national goals of energy independence, and the development of this energy
resource is consistent with the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Small wind turbines, turbines, and windmills if not properly sited
and developed, have the potential for causing adverse impacts to wildlife, and
health, safety and quality of life for county residents.
      (3)   In order to protect the general safety and welfare of Northampton
County residents, the standards and conditions of this section must be met
before any wind turbine or windmill may be approved or constructed for on-site
residential, institutional, commercial or farm use.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply.
      ANEMOMETER. An instrument which measures the wind speed and may transmit
wind speed data to the controller.
      FALL ZONE. Furthest distance from the tower base in which a wind turbine
will collapse in the event of a structural failure.
      HYBRID SYSTEM. An energy system that uses more than one technology to
produce energy (for example a wind/solar system).
      kW. Kilowatt.
      MW. Megawatt.
      RATED NAMEPLATE CAPACITY. The maximum rated output of electric power
production equipment. The output is typically specified by the manufacturer
with a "nameplate" on the equipment.
      ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving
blades.
      SHADOW FLICKER. The visible flicker effect when rotating blades cast
shadows on the ground and nearby structures causing the repeating patterns of
light and shadow.
      SMALL WIND TURBINES. A system with a rated capacity of not more than 10
kW for residential use and not more than 100 kW for other uses and used solely
for onsite use of electrical power.
      SURVIVAL WIND SPEED. Maximum speed a small wind turbine or windmill is
designed safely to withstand.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point, above ground level, reached by the
highest vertical extension of the blade, including the tower height.
      TOWER. The structure on which the small wind turbine or windmill is
mounted.
      TOWER HEIGHT. The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the rotor blades.
      WIND POWER. Conversion of wind energy into another form of energy.
      WINDMILL. A machine designed to convert the energy of the wind into more
useful forms using rotating blades to turn mechanical machinery to do physical
work, such as crushing grain or pumping water.
   (C)   Use regulations. No small wind turbines or windmills shall be
constructed, modified or operated in Northampton County except in compliance
with this section.
      (1)   Small wind turbines and windmills of less than 35 feet in total
height are allowed by right in all districts, subject to the performance
standards in subsection (D) below.
      (2)   Small wind turbines, and windmills of 36 feet to 120 feet in total
height require a minor special use permit as indicated in Appendix A, use
regulations, and are subject to the performance standards in subsection (D)
below.
   (D)   Performance standards. The following performance standards related to
health, safety and welfare of the community apply to small wind turbines and
windmills as noted and related infrastructure, unless specifically waived as
part of a permit:
      (1)   Small wind turbines and windmills are accessory uses.
      (2)   All small wind turbines and windmills, including the electrical and
mechanical components, shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state
and national safety and performance codes, including, but not limited to the
Uniform Statewide Building Code and National Electrical Code.
      (3)   A building permit is required for the installation of any small
wind turbine or windmill.
      (4)   All power transmission lines from a small wind turbine or windmill
to any building or other structure shall be located underground to the maximum
extent practicable.
      (5)   No advertising signs are allowed on any part of a small wind
turbine or windmill and associated facilities.
      (6)   No tower shall be lit except to comply with FAA requirements.
      (7)   Tubular, monopole towers shall be used whenever practicable.
      (8)   Small wind turbines and windmills shall be designed and installed
to minimize impacts of land clearing and the loss of open space areas.
      (9)   Small wind turbines and windmills shall be located so as to
prohibit shadow flicker on off-site residential structures.
      (10)   Noise from a small wind turbine or windmill shall not exceed 50
decibels as measured at the closest property line.
      (11)   Small wind turbines and windmills shall be painted a single, non-
reflective, non-obtrusive color.
      (12)   Small wind turbines and windmills shall have both a manual and an
automatic braking, governing or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled
rotation, over speeding and excessive pressure on the tower structure, rotor
blades and turbine components.
      (13)   Towers shall be designed to prevent unauthorized external access
to electrical and mechanical components.
      (14)   The survival wind speed shall be at least 115 miles per hour.
      (15)   All small wind turbines and windmills will be UL approved for the
U.S. grid system if they are to be connected to the grid.
      (16)   The lowest point of any blade will be a minimum distance of 12
feet from the ground.
      (17)   No more than one small wind turbine or windmill shall be allowed
per parcel in all districts with the exception of the Agriculture/Rural
Business District, in which more than one may be allowed.
      (18)   If a small wind turbine or windmill remains nonfunctional for a
continuous period of two years, the system shall be deemed to be abandoned and
shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the abandoned
structure at his/her own expense. Removal includes the entire structure,
including foundations to below natural grade, and transmission equipment.
   (E)   Setbacks, densities, lot sizes, and dimensions for small wind turbines
and windmills.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2150.jpg]
 
   (F)   Submission requirements. Applicants for a minor special use permit for
a small wind turbine or windmill shall submit, in addition to any other
requirements as specified in §
154.2.042(B)(1)(b), the following:
      (1)   A vertical drawing of the small wind turbine or windmill showing
total height, turbine dimensions, tower and turbine colors, and distance
between ground and lowest point of any blade.
      (2)   A plot plan in sufficient detail to show the following:
         (a)   Property lines and physical dimensions of site.
         (b)   Location, elevation, approximate dimensions, and types of major
existing structures, including all residences, ancillary facilities or
structures and uses on site, public roads and adjoining property lines within
distance of total height.
         (c)   To demonstrate compliance with set-back requirements of
subsection (E), a circle drawn around the proposed tower location equal to 1.2
times the total height.
         (d)   A line drawing of electrical components of the small wind
turbine or windmill in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the
National Electrical Code, including the presence of an automatic turn off in
the event of an electrical failure and a disconnect switch accessible to
utility workers.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.114 METEOROLOGICAL TOWER REGULATIONS AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Use regulations. No MET tower may be constructed within Northampton
County except by a special use permit within the Agricultural/Rural Business
District (A/RB) issued pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Maximum period of special use permit. As a MET tower is intended to be
a temporary structure, no special use permit shall be issued for a period that
exceeds 24 months.
   (C)   Procedure. In addition to the application materials required under §
154.2.042(B)(1)(a), the following materials must be submitted:
      (1)   Engineering specifications of the MET tower to be installed.
      (2)   Drawing showing the vertical dimensions of the MET tower.
      (3)   Drawing showing the location of all structures, residences,
forested areas, wetlands and waterways within 500 feet of the property line
where the MET tower will be located.
   (D)   Performance standards:
      (1)   The maximum height of the MET tower from the ground level to the
top of the tower (including instrumentation) shall not exceed 199 feet.
      (2)   A MET tower shall not have any more electricity-generating capacity
than is necessary to sustain its use and data transmission operations.
      (3)   The minimum setback for a Met tower is three times the maximum
height (as defined in (D) (1) above) from the nearest property boundary line
and/or utility line.
      (4)   No lighting other than that required by FAA regulation shall be
permitted to be located on the MET tower. Throughout the life of the MET tower,
compliance is required with all current FAA regulations within six months of
promulgation, or sooner if required by the FAA.
      (5)   Signs on the MET tower shall be limited to those needed to warn of
any danger.
      (6)   MET towers shall be located in a manner that minimizes land
clearing and/or fragmentation of forested areas.
      (7)   MET towers shall be maintained in good condition and shall have the
structure inspected by a professional engineer at least once every 12 months.
The results of the facility inspection shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator within 30 days of the inspection report's receipt by the
applicant or facility owner. Ongoing maintenance shall include, but not be
limited to, painting, structural integrity of the foundation, all equipment and
support structures and security barriers (if applicable), and landscaping if
present.
      (8)   Notice shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator within 30 days
of any change in ownership of the facility.
      (9)   In the event that guy wires are utilized, bird flight diverters
shall be placed at spaced intervals along the length of multiple wires in a
manner designed to minimize bird impacts.
      (10)   One acoustic bat detector (ABD) shall be placed on the MET tower
at least 30 meters above the ground, and one ABD shall be placed on the MET
tower between one and one-half meters and three meters above the ground.
   (E)   Abandonment, discontinuation of use or expiration of special use
permit. Within 90 days of abandonment, discontinuation of use or expiration of
the special use permit, the applicant or his/her successor (and if neither is
available, then the property owner) shall physically remove the MET tower and
all associated equipment, machinery, etc. from the site, properly dispose of
any solid or hazardous waste materials in accordance with state and federal
regulations, and restore the location to its natural condition prior to the
project installation.
   (F)   Enforcement. If the MET tower is not removed in accordance with
subsection (E) above, the Board of Supervisors may authorize the Zoning
Administrator to enter the site and procure removal of the MET tower. The
applicant must post a form of surety prior to construction in the amount
necessary for the removal of the structure in accordance with subsection (E)
above. The surety, in the form of bond, letter of credit, or escrow account,
must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and shall be fully inclusive of
the costs associated with MET tower removal.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.115 STANDARDS FOR WIND ENERGY FACILITIES, WIND ENERGY TEST FACILITIES,
AND WIND TURBINES, LARGE AND UTILITY-SCALE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Board of Supervisors of Northampton County
finds and declares that:
      (1)   Wind energy is a renewable energy resource that contributes to the
state and national goals of energy independence, and the development of this
energy resource is consistent with the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Wind turbines, if not appropriately sited and developed, have the
potential for causing adverse impacts to wildlife, soils, transportation
systems, recreation and tourism activities, property values and the health,
safety and quality of life of Northampton County residents.
      (3)   The location of a wind energy test facility would comply with the
Northampton County Comprehensive Plan by promoting economic development through
the creation of technology related employment.
      (4)   In order to protect the general health, safety and welfare of
Northampton County residents, the standards and conditions of this section must
be met before any wind turbine and/or wind energy facility may be approved or
constructed.
   (B)   Use regulations. No wind energy facility, wind energy test facility,
or wind turbine, large scale and/or utility scale not part of wind energy
facility or wind energy test facility, shall be constructed, reconstructed,
modified or operated in Northampton County except pursuant to a special use
permit approved in compliance with this section. Any special use permit issued
for a wind energy facility or a wind energy test facility shall include
authorization for the construction and operation of all the wind turbines
within such facility, provided that each such wind turbine complies with the
performance standards established by this section.
   (C)   Performance standards. The following performance standards apply to
all wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities and wind turbines,
large scale and utility scale whether or not part of a wind energy facility or
wind energy test facility, and related infrastructure (for purposes of this
section, any place where WIND TURBINE is used refers to large scale and utility
scale wind turbine.) Each wind turbine within a wind energy facility and/or
wind energy test facility must meet performance standards within this section:
      (1)   All wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities and wind
turbines, including but not limited to their associated electrical and
mechanical components, shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state
and national codes, including, but not limited to, safety and performance
codes.
      (2)   A building permit is required prior to the initiation of
construction of any and each portion of a wind energy facility or a wind energy
test facility.
      (3)   If a wind turbine remains nonfunctional or inoperative for a
continuous period of one year, the operator shall continually monitor and
maintain the wind turbine so as to prevent deterioration and creation of a
hazardous situation. In the event that any wind turbine becomes inoperable as a
result of damage to the structure or housing, or as a result of a technical
malfunction, the operator of the facility shall, within 60 days, provide to the
Building Department an explanation for the inoperable condition, together with
a plan and schedule for the repair or removal of the wind turbine.
      (4)   All power transmission lines from the wind energy test facility
and/or a wind energy facility and each wind turbine to any building or other
structure shall be located underground to the maximum extent practicable.
      (5)   No advertising signs are allowed on any part of a wind energy
facility, a wind energy test facility and/or wind turbine and associated
structures, equipment and facilities.
      (6)   No wind turbine tower shall be lit except to comply with FAA
requirements. For wind energy facilities and wind energy test facilities,
minimum security lighting for ground-level facilities shall be allowed as
approved on the site plan. Security lighting shall be designed to minimize
light pollution and impacts to neighboring properties, including the use of
light hoods, low glare fixtures, and directing lights at the ground.
      (7)   Monopole towers shall be used for all wind turbines. All tower
structures will be designed to meet the specifications of a licensed
professional engineer.
      (8)   Wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities, and wind
turbines shall be located so as to minimize the impacts of land clearing and
the loss of open space areas.
      (9)   Wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities and wind
turbines shall be located and/or operated so as to limit shadow flicker on off-
site residential structures, but in no event shall shadow flicker exceed 25
minutes per day.
      (10)   Wind turbines shall be placed so that structures housing animals
and/or humans are not located within the fall zone. A dedicated risk analysis
will be carried out to demonstrate public and individual safety.
      (11)   Noise from a wind turbine shall not exceed 55 decibels as measured
at the closest property line.
      (12)   Wind turbines shall be painted a single, non-reflective, non-
obtrusive color such as gray or similar shades. This provision may be waived if
necessary to protect avian resources. Wind turbines as part of a wind energy
facility shall be painted in an identical color.
      (13)   All wind turbines shall have both a manual and an automatic
braking, governing or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, over
speeding and excessive pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades and
turbine components.
      (14)   Wind turbines shall be designed to prevent unauthorized external
access to electrical and mechanical components and shall have access doors that
are kept securely locked.
      (15)   Individual wind turbines within a wind energy facility shall be
constructed using wind turbines whose appearance, with respect to one another,
is similar within and throughout the area, to reduce visual impact by providing
reasonable uniformity in overall size, geometry and rotational speeds. No
lettering, company insignia, advertising or graphics shall be on any part of
the tower, hub or blades.
      (16)   The minimum distance between the ground and the lowest point of
the blades shall be 75 feet.
      (17)   Consistent with Zoning Code sign regulations, warning signs for
expected dangers shall be posted at all wind energy facilities, wind energy
test facilities and wind turbines. At least one sign shall be posted at the
base of the tower warning of electrical shock and high voltage. A sign shall be
posted at the base of each tower containing emergency contact information,
including a local telephone number with 24-hour, 7 days per week coverage.
Accurate maps of the underground facilities shall be provided to the local
public safety agencies, including, but not limited to the Northampton County
Building Inspector and the Northampton County Sheriff's Department and the
appropriate Fire and Rescue Departments.
      (18)   Any damage to local roads from the construction vehicle traffic
related to the project shall be repaired by the applicant.
      (19)   Wind energy facilities and wind energy test facilities shall be
located, designed, and constructed in such a manner as to minimize adverse
impacts to fish, wildlife, or native plant resources, including fish and
wildlife habitat, migratory routes, and state or federally-listed threatened or
endangered fish, wildlife, or plant species and operated in accordance with the
conditions of the special use permit (SUP).
      (20)   The use of guy wires is prohibited on wind turbines.
      (21)   No wind turbine shall be installed in any location where its
proximity with existing fixed broadcast, retransmission, or reception antenna
for radio, television, or wireless phone or other personal communication
systems would produce interference with signal transmission or reception. No
wind turbine shall be installed in any location along the major axis of an
existing microwave communications link where its operation is likely to produce
electromagnetic interference in the link's operation. If it is determined that
a wind turbine is causing electromagnetic interference, the operator shall take
the necessary corrective action to eliminate this interference including
relocation or removal of the facilities, or resolution of the issue with the
impacted parties. Failure to remedy electromagnetic interference is grounds for
revocation of the special use permit for the specific wind turbines or wind
energy facilities causing the interference.
      (22)   No wind turbine shall be installed in any location where its
proximity to existing airports, airfields, or airstrips would interfere with
the continued use of such airport, airfield or airstrip. A Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation (DNH) shall
be required for all structures that have a height of 200 feet or more from
ground level.
      (23)   Wind energy facilities and wind energy test facilities shall be
located in a manner consistent with all applicable local, state and federal
regulations, including, but not limited to, wetlands laws and regulations,
stormwater runoff and erosion control regulations, and hazardous waste disposal
regulations.
      (24)   Any soils compacted during construction of a wind turbine shall be
decompacted to a depth of 18 inches and vegetation shall be re-established at
the soonest planting date for cover crops.
      (25)   One acoustic bat detector (ABD) shall be placed on wind turbines
at least 30 meters above the ground, and one ABD shall be placed on wind
turbines between one and one-half meters and three meters above the ground.
      (26)   Any MET Towers/METMASTs installed as part of a wind energy
facility or wind energy test facility shall comply with the performance
standards set forth in §
154.2.114 herein.
   (D)   Setbacks, densities, lot sizes, and dimensions for wind turbines -
large scale and utility scale.
      (1)   The maximum wind turbine height (large scale and utility scale),
including but not limited to any wind turbine within a wind energy facility or
wind energy test facility, shall not be subject to any restrictions by this or
any other section of this chapter.
      (2)   The maximum height for a METMAST within a wind energy test facility
is 550 feet. All other requirements for MET Towers under §
154.2.114 shall apply to METMASTs within a wind energy test facility.
      (3)   The minimum setback distance between a wind turbine (large scale
and utility scale) and overhead utility or transmission lines, other wind
turbines, electrical substations, public roads, and property lines for
properties not part of a wind farm shall be no less than one and one-half times
the wind turbine height or 600 feet, whichever is greater. The setback
requirement from the closest property lines of adjacent and other properties
shall be no less than 1.25 mi/6600 feet. An exemption to the setback
requirement for property lines may be granted by the Board of Supervisors only
by an agreement, through the execution of a legally binding publicly recorded
document that runs with the land, between the proponent and adjacent and other
property owners with property lines which are within a radius of 1.25 mi/6600
feet of the wind turbine.
      (4)   In the event that a wind energy facility or a wind energy test
facility is composed of more than one parcel of land, the setback provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to abutting parcel where they share a common
boundary, and shall only apply where the boundary of a parcel which is a part
of such facilities abuts a parcel which is not a part of such facilities.
   (E)   Submission and processing requirements.
      (1)   Wind energy facilities, wind energy test facilities, and wind
turbines, large scale and utility scale. In addition to the requirements set
forth in §
154.2.042, applicants for a special use permit for a wind energy facility, wind
energy test facility, and wind turbine (large scale and utility scale) not part
of a wind energy facility or wind energy test facility shall submit the
following information.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a site plan prepared by a licensed
surveyor or engineer in sufficient detail to show the following:
            1.   Property lines and physical dimensions of the parcel where the
wind turbine will be located as well as any adjacent parcels.
            2.   Location, approximate dimensions, and types of major existing
structures and resources, including but not limited to residences, businesses,
community, government and educational facilities, aviation resources, cultural
resources, and natural resources, on the parcel where the wind turbine will be
located and on adjoining properties at least within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of the proposed project site.
            3.   Location and elevation of each proposed wind turbine.
            4.   Location of all above ground utility lines, transformers,
power lines, interconnection point with transmission lines, and other ancillary
facilities or structures on the site.
            5.   Location and size of structures above 35 feet within a radius
of no less than one and one-half times the height of the proposed wind turbine
(s).
            6.   The zoning designation of the subject and adjacent properties
as set forth in this chapter.
            7.   To demonstrate compliance with the setback requirements of
this section, a circle drawn around each proposed tower location with a radius
equal to one and a half times the wind turbine height.
            8.   Location of residential structures within a radius equal to
three times the wind turbine height of each proposed tower.
            9.   Location of all proposed facilities, including access roads,
electrical lines, substations, storage or maintenance units, and fencing.
         (b)   A noise analysis by a licensed acoustical engineer documenting
the noise levels expected to be associated with the proposed wind turbine(s)
shall be submitted as part of the application. The study shall document
projected noise levels at property lines and at the nearest residence not on
the site. The noise analysis shall provide pre-existing ambient noise levels
and include low frequency noise and vibration projections and potential
impacts. The noise analysis shall provide supporting information to demonstrate
compliance with the noise performance standards for wind turbines.
         (c)   A fire protection and emergency response plan prepared in
consultation with local emergency officials, including but not limited to, the
Northampton County Sheriff's Department.
         (d)   A construction plan including the commencement and completion
dates. Such plan shall include routes to be used by construction and delivery
vehicles, and the gross weight and height of the maximum delivery vehicle.
         (e)   The applicant shall conduct and submit a study on potential
impacts from blade damage and blade throw, including delineation of blade throw
impact zone.
         (f)   The applicant shall submit sufficient information on the wind
turbine's design to demonstrate compliance with wind loading requirements by
means of providing a copy of the wind turbine's design certificate.
         (g)   The applicant shall conduct and submit a study on potential
shadow flicker. The study shall identify locations where shadow flicker may be
caused by the wind turbines and the expected durations of the flicker at these
locations. The study shall identify areas where shadow flicker may interfere
with residences and describe measures that shall be taken to eliminate or
mitigate the problems, including reduction of wind turbine operations during
shadow flicker periods.
         (h)   The project shall meet the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (NTIA) study process and obtain a determination of
"No Objection".
         (i)   The applicant shall submit a dust control plan to be utilized
during construction.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit a vertical drawing of the wind
turbine showing wind turbine height, blade dimensions, turbine dimensions,
tower and turbine colors, ladders, distance between ground and lowest point of
any blade, location of climbing pegs, and access doors. One drawing shall be
submitted for each wind turbine of the same design.
         (k)   Lighting plan showing any FAA-required lighting and other
proposed lighting. The application should include a copy of the determination
by the Federal Aviation Administration to establish required markings and/or
lights for the structure, but if such determination is not available at the
time of the application, no building permit for any lighted facility may be
issued until such determination is submitted.
         (l)   List of property owners, with their mailing addresses, within
1,500 feet of the boundaries of the proposed project site for notification
purposes.
         (m)   Decommissioning plan. The applicant shall submit a
decommissioning plan, which describes the anticipated life of the project, the
cost for removal, evidence of decommissioning funds (bond, insurance, or other
guarantee), and the plans for restoring the soils and vegetation on the site
after removal of the wind turbine. Require the applicant to annually provide
the Board of Supervisors annually with evidence of sufficient decommissioning
funds, in the form of a performance bond or surety bond, to allow the county,
at no cost to itself, to remove the project in the event that the applicant
fails to comply with its decommissioning plan.
         (n)   The applicant shall provide the county with copies of all
studies and information related to birds and bats that are required to be
prepared for any other governmental agencies.
         (o)   The applicant shall provide photo-simulations of proposed wind
energy facilities from at least three different locations, as determined by the
county, in order to illustrate views of the project from property lines,
roadways and sensitive receptors (natural areas, recreational areas, etc.) so
that visual impacts can be determined.
         (p)   The applicant shall conduct balloon testing after the submission
of the official application at the proposed wind energy facility location for
at least two wind turbines. Balloons shall be placed at each site for at least
four hours and flown at a height equal to the proposed wind turbine height. The
balloon testing date and time shall be advertised in a newspaper of local
circulation at least two weeks prior to the actual testing date.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a special use permit application for a wind energy
facility, wind energy test facility, and/or large scale and utility scale wind
turbines, the county shall notify the Department of Defense Energy Siting
Clearinghouse and the Department of Defense Regional Environmental Coordinator
(DOD REC) Region 3, in addition to other requirements set forth in §
154.2.042 herein.
   (F)   Approval of special use permit for wind energy facilities, wind energy
test facilities and/or large scale and utility scale wind turbines. In
conjunction with the approval of a special use permit for a large scale or
utility scale wind turbine, the Board of Supervisors may:
      (1)   Establish a period of time, not to exceed five years, during which
construction of the facility must begin and after which the special use permit
shall no longer be valid, if such construction has not begun. For purposes of
this subsection (F) (1), construction will be considered to have begun once an
application for a building permit has been submitted in connection with the
facility.
      (2)   Condition approval of a special use permit, as to any part of the
subject property for which a plat of subdivision has been recorded, on the
vacation of any such recorded plat of subdivision, if vacation is necessary due
to rights of ways, easements, or other rights created by the plat of
subdivision which would be in conflict with the proposed facility. If the Board
of Supervisors so conditions the special use permit, the subdivision agent of
the Board of Supervisors shall consent to such vacation upon delivery to the
subdivision agent of a written instrument in compliance with VA Code § 15.2-
2271, as amended, and with any other requirements of law.
      (3)   Allow for the phased development of a wind energy facility and wind
energy test facility.
      (4)   Require the applicant or operator of a wind energy test facility to
engage in or allow third party academic researchers to engage in research and
studies on the impacts to avian and bat resources and mitigation measures for
those impacts from wind turbines.
      (5)   Require the applicant to provide the Board of Supervisors with a
report on the operations and maintenance of the wind energy facility and wind
energy test facility on an annual basis, including any changes in ownership or
operator responsibility.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.116 STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   Minimum standards for agritourism activities shall be as follows:
      (1)   Agritourism activities associated with an agricultural operation
shall be conducted upon an active agricultural operation owned or operated by
the agritourism professional.
      (2)   Comply with
Chapter 98: Noise of the NCC.
      (3)   Agritourism activities shall provide recreation, entertainment and
education through activities that usually and customarily occur on and are
directly associated with Virginia agricultural operations which include, but
are not limited to, the following activities: agricultural museum and displays,
barn dances, biking trails, bird watching, micro-breweries, canning produce
demonstrations, canoeing, corn mazes, cut flowers (picking, arranging, and
planting), cut-your-own Christmas tree and evergreens, farm cooking contests,
farm festivals, farm related "how-to" clinics, farm scavenger hunts, farm tours
for children and families, farm visits (a day or a week on the farm: living,
working, enjoying), fee-fishing pond (fishing, cleaning, and cooking), flower
arranging workshops, haunted barns, hay wagon rides, heirloom plant and animal
exhibits, herb walks, heritage trails, hiking paths (walking, identifying
vegetation, determining a tree's age, picnicking), historic reenactments
(associated with farm life), jam- and jelly-making demonstrations, meeting
barnyard animals (participating in educational programs focusing on each
animal: shear the sheep, milk the "demonstration" cow, or participate in
"cattle college"), orchards and pick-your-own (picking, sitting, picnics under
the trees), oyster shucking contest, plant a garden, pony and horseback riding,
pumpkin patch (picking, painting, carving, and buying), quilting/weaving
exhibitions, sorghum milling, stargazing, storytelling/story swaps, straw bale
maze, vegetable contests, Virginia Standards of Learning and the farm,
winemaking and tasting and wineries.
      (4)   Parking and loading needs generated by the agritourism activities
shall be met on the same lot or parcel where agritourism activities are being
conducted or otherwise provided for in a manner consistent with public safety.
      (5)   Vehicular parking shall not be allowed on any public streets or
within one hundred (100) feet of any residence, except for a residence located
on the property of the agritourism activities.
      (6)   Traffic generated by agritourism activities shall comply with the
Virginia Department of Transportation standards and regulations.
      (7)   Signage associated with agritourism activities shall comply with §
154.2.190 et seq. Signs.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of the agritourism professional to
maintain and post required signs specified by the VA Code § 3.2-6400 et seq.
      (9)   It shall be the responsibility of the agritourism professional to
comply with all applicable state and federal regulations which specifically
include, but are not limited to the following: VA Code § 4.1 - 200 et seq. of
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, VA Code § 3.2 - 5100 et seq. Food and
Drink, VA Code Title 58.1 Taxation and VA Code.
   (B)   Minimum standards for the sale of agricultural products.
      (1)   Sale of agricultural products from a farm market or private
resident shall be permitted as an integral part of an active agricultural
operation owned or operated by the same person or entity conducting the sale of
agricultural products.
      (2)   Sales of agricultural products from farm stands shall be permitted
as a separate use in other zoning districts as designated in the list of
permitted uses provided for each zoning district and are not required to be an
integral part of an active agricultural operation owned or operated by the same
person or entity conducting the retail sales of agricultural products from the
farm stand.
      (3)   Sale of agricultural products may include the sale of value added
agricultural products and agricultural-related products when sold from a farm
market. Sale of agricultural products may include value added agricultural
products when sold from a farm stand.
      (4)   Parking and loading needs generated by the sale of agricultural
products shall be met on the same lot or parcel where agricultural products are
being sold or otherwise provided for in a manner consistent with public safety.
      (5)   Vehicular parking shall not be allowed on any public streets or
within 100 feet of any residence, except for a residence located on the
property of the agritourism activities.
      (6)   Traffic generated by the sale of agricultural products shall comply
with the Virginia Department of Transportation standards and regulations.
      (7)   Signage associated the sale of agricultural products shall comply
with §
154.2.190 et seq. Signs.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of the
agricultural operation to comply with all applicable state and federal
regulations which specifically include, but are not limited to the following:
VA Code § 4.1 - 200 et seq. of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, VA Code §
3.2 - 5100 et seq. Food and Drink, VA Code Title 58.1 Taxation and VA Code.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.117 ACCESSORY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   An accessory dwelling shall not be counted as a unit when calculating
density, but shall be counted as a part of the principal single-family dwelling
unit to which it is subordinate as one total unit, contingent upon it being
designed, located, constructed and maintained in compliance with the following
standards:
   (B)   General standards for all accessory dwellings.
      (1)   The accessory dwelling shall be located on the same lot as the
principal single-family dwelling to which it is accessory and the principal
single-family dwelling may be constructed before or after the issuance of a
permit for the accessory dwelling the setbacks that apply to principal
structures and buildings shall apply;
      (2)   The accessory dwelling shall be limited to a maximum of two
bedrooms;
      (3)   Only one accessory dwelling shall be permitted for each detached
principal single-family dwelling and shall not be permitted accessory to a
multi-family dwelling;
      (4)   The accessory dwelling shall be owned by the same owner as the
detached principal single-family dwelling to which it is accessory and the
owner shall reside in the detached principal single-family dwelling or the
accessory dwelling;
      (5)   The accessory dwelling shall be served by a water supply and septic
system approved by the Virginia Department of Health;
      (6)   The accessory dwelling shall be constructed in compliance with the
Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code residential standards and shall be
issued a certificate of occupancy as a dwelling prior to occupancy; and
      (7)   A minimum of one off-street parking space beyond what is required
for the detached principal single-family dwelling shall be provided.
   (C)   An accessory dwelling shall be created through one of the following
construction methods and shall meet the following standards specific to each
method as defined below. If more than one method is used to create an accessory
dwelling unit, the most restrictive standard shall apply.
      (1)   An internal conversion within a portion of an existing principal
single-family dwelling or existing accessory structure or the total conversion
of an existing accessory structure to create an accessory dwelling.
         (a)   The size of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed 50% of the
gross heated floor area of the existing detached principal single-family
dwelling calculated prior to the internal conversion to create an accessory
dwelling.
         (b)   When the conversion is within an existing detached principal
single-family dwelling, setback and height regulations for principal structures
shall apply.
         (c)   When the conversion is within an existing accessory structure,
setback and height regulations for accessory structures shall apply.
      (2)   An external attachment, connection or addition to an existing
principal single-family dwelling or existing accessory structure to create an
accessory dwelling.
         (a)   The size of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed 50% of the
gross heated floor area of the existing detached principal single-family
dwelling calculated prior to the external attachment, connection or addition to
create an accessory dwelling.
         (b)   When the accessory dwelling is attached, connected or added to
the existing principal single-family dwelling, setback and height regulations
for principal structures shall apply.
         (c)   When the accessory dwelling is attached, connected or added to
the existing accessory structure, setback and height regulations for accessory
structures shall apply.
      (3)   Construction of an accessory dwelling within, attached, connected
or added to a new detached principal single-family dwelling included in the
initial design and construction or construction of a new detached accessory
dwelling.
         (a)   The size of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed 50% of the
gross heated floor area of the detached principal single-family dwelling
calculated excluding area which are designated to an accessory dwelling having
an external entrance not shared with the area designated to the detached
principal single-family dwelling.
         (b)   Setback regulations for principal structures shall apply.
         (c)   When the accessory dwelling is within, attached, connected or
added to a new detached principal single-family dwelling, height regulations
for principal structures shall apply.
         (d)   When a new detached accessory dwelling is constructed, height
regulations for accessory structures shall apply.
      (4)   Changing the use of an existing principal dwelling into an
accessory dwelling and constructing a new principal single-family dwelling.
         (a)   The size of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed 50% of the
gross heated floor area of the new principal single-family dwelling.
         (b)   Setback and height regulations for principal structures shall
apply to the new principal single-family dwelling.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Amendment adopted 5-9-2017)
§ 154.2.118 ADDITIONAL SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS ON ONE LOT.
   If the dwelling cannot be designed, located, constructed and maintained in
compliance with §
154.2.117 Accessory Dwellings, it shall not be considered an accessory
dwelling, but may be considered an additional single-family dwelling on one lot
if it is designed, located, constructed and maintained in compliance with the
following standards:
      (1)   Additional single-family dwellings on one lot shall comply with the
density regulations for the zoning district in which it is to be located. Each
single-family dwelling unit on one lot shall be one unit used in the density
calculation;
      (2)   Additional single-family dwellings on one lot shall be served by
separate and independent infrastructure including, but not limited to, a water
supply and septic system approved by the Virginia Department of Health;
      (3)   An additional single-family dwelling on one lot shall be located
and separated from other single-family dwellings with their accessory
structures a distance equal to the minimum required setbacks as if property
lines existed between the additional single-family dwelling and other single-
family dwellings with their accessory structures and shall be laid out in such
a manner as to permit subdivision into separate lots as provided for in Chapter
156: Subdivision; and
      (4)   If a property containing additional single-family dwellings seeks
approval for one or more of the single-family dwellings to be subdivided from
the base parcel, the applicant shall first seek approval of a preliminary
subdivision plat and phasing plan for the subdivision of all single-family
dwellings located on the base parcel. After the approval of a preliminary
subdivision plat and phasing plan has been obtained, one or more of the single-
family dwellings located on the base parcel may be subdivided individually in
compliance with the approved preliminary subdivision plan and phasing plan.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.119 EVENT VENUE.
   All event venues shall comply with the minimum standards below:
      (1)   This use shall only be permitted by special use permit in specified
zoning district on parcels having a minimum lot size of five acres;
      (2)   The maximum number of guests, hours of operation and perimeter
screening may be required as part of the special use permit approval;
      (3)   No overnight accommodations shall be permitted as part of an event
venue, but may be approved as a separate use on the property;
      (4)   All parking needs generated by this use must be accommodated on-
site except as permitted in §
154.2.205 Off-street Parking and Loading et seq.;
      (5)   Solid waste generated by the event venue shall be stored in a
manner that prevents the propagation, harborage or attraction of insects and
rodents or other nuisance conditions and shall be removed at least once every
seven days by a licensed solid waste hauler;
      (6)   If portable toilets are provided for temporary use, then they shall
be approved by the Virginia Department of Health;
      (7)   Setbacks for parking shall be 100 feet from adjacent residential
zoning districts and 200 feet from any dwelling except dwellings on the
premises;
      (8)   Setbacks for any outdoor event activities shall be 300 feet from
adjacent residential zoning districts and 400 feet from any dwelling;
      (9)   All permanent structures and buildings associated with the event
venue shall be constructed in compliance with the Virginia Uniform Statewide
Building Code requirements for such a use and obtain a certificate of occupancy
for such a use;
      (10)   Temporary structures and buildings such as tents and stages are
permitted and shall be constructed in compliance with the Virginia Uniform
Statewide Building Code requirements for such a use;
      (11)   The number of required parking spaces and other parking
performance standards established in §
154.2.205 Off-street Parking and Loading et seq. shall be documented on a site
plan;
      (12)   Traffic generated by the event venue shall not exceed conditions
placed on the approval of the special use permit by the Northampton County
Board of Supervisors and Virginia Department of Transportation;
      (13)   Noise generated by the event venue shall comply with the standards
set forth in NCC Chapter 98: Noise Ordinance;
      (14)   Outdoor lighting shall comply with the standards set forth in §
154.2.112 General lighting standards;
      (15)   Signs shall be placed in accordance with §
154.2.190 Signs et seq.;
      (16)   The event venue may be served by a water supply and septic system
approved by the Virginia Department of Health for this specific use; and
      (17)   Food service associated with the event venue shall be approved by
the Virginia Department of Health.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.120 SHORT TERM RENTAL.
   All short term rentals shall comply with the minimum standards below:
   (A)   All parking needs generated by this use shall be limited to one
parking space per bedroom plus one additional space ro must be accommodated on-
site.
   (B)   Property shall abide by the residential sign standards in §
154.2.193(C) PERMITTED SIGN STANDARDS and residential lighting standards in §
154.2.112 GENERAL LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (C)   The number of occupants shall be limited to three people per bedroom.
The number of bedrooms is listed on the Northampton County property record
card.
   (D)   All dwellings used as a short term rental unit must have installed
smoke alarms. The smoke alarms shall be in the following locations:
      (1)   In each sleeping room.
      (2)   Outside each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of
the bedrooms.
      (3)   On each additional story of the dwelling, including basements and
habitable attics.
   (E)   noise limits shall be in accordance with Chapter 98 NOISE.
   (F)   Owner shall complete, submit and pay fees associated with the business
license in Northampton County only. Owner shall complete and submit transient
occupancy tax form and pay taxes for short term rental located in Town of Cape
Charles and Northampton County per
Chapter 33 FINANCE AND TAXATION, Transient Occupancy Tax, §§
33.075 through
33.084.
   (G)   Short term rental is prohibited in structures that are not dwellings
as defined in §
154.2.003.
   (H)   Short term rentals shall not be used as an event venue unless
permitted as such.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 154.2.121 RECYCLING YARD.
   Recycling yards shall comply with the minimum standards below:
   (A)   A solid fence or wall not less than ten feet in height in the front of
the property and continuing on both sides toward the rear of the property for a
distance of 25 feet. The solid fence or wall shall be not less than seven feet
in height for the remainder of the perimeter enclosure.
   (B)   The wall or fence of the outdoor storage area shall be of solid, 100%
opaque construction of wood, masonry or other similar material approved in
writing by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   All recycling yards shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Storage area shall be placed or maintained within the required
setback.
      (2)   All fencing shall be installed in a professional and workmanlike
manner, and maintained in good condition.
   (D)   All tires not mounted on a vehicle shall be neatly stacked or placed
in racks. No garbage or other putrescent waste, likely to attract vermin, shall
be kept on the premises. Gasoline, oil, or other hazardous materials which are
removed from scrapped vehicles or parts of vehicles kept on the premises shall
be disposed of in accordance with applicable federal, state and local
regulations. These regulations are in addition to all other regulations of the
Commonwealth of Virginia and the County.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-11-2020)
USES, DENSITIES AND DIMENSIONS
§ 154.2.125 PURPOSE AND STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to establish
use, density, and dimensional regulations which will apply to zoning districts.
   (B)   Structure. The subchapter includes a series of tables which provide
regulations for the following:
      (1)   Appendix A establishes uses permitted by right and upon the
approval of a special use permit (major or minor);
      (2)   Appendix B establishes minimum lot sizes, setbacks, heights, and
other requirements for structures in all zoning districts;
   (C)   Tables established. There are hereby established a series of tables to
be numbered and titled as set forth in division (B) above. These tables,
together with other notations set forth therein or reference thereto, are
hereby made a part of this subchapter and the zoning ordinance of Northampton
County and shall control the location of specific uses, the lot sizes,
densities, yard, and dimensional requirements within the zoning districts of
the county.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.126 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES.
   In addition to the regulations included in these tables, this section
provides regulations which supplement those in the tables.
   (A)   Height. The maximum height for any dwelling structure shall be as
defined in Appendix B except where elevation is required for compliance with
Chapter 159 Floodplain Management. Height shall be measured as the vertical
distance from the average finished grade at the building line to the top of the
highest roof beam of a flat roof or to the peak of pitched or hip roofs or a
mansard roof.
   (B)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for the
permitted uses in accordance with §§
154.2.205 et seq.
   (C)   Single- and double-wide manufactured homes. Single- and double-wide
manufactured homes shall be permitted as indicated in Appendix A, Residential
Uses. All such homes must comply with all applicable local, state, and federal
regulations.
   (D)   Use of existing non-residential buildings. When a townhouse, row
house, duplex, multi-family attached dwelling unit, and/or dwelling unit in a
mixed-use structure is not otherwise allowed in a zoning district as either by-
right or with a special use permit, as identified in
Appendix A, Use Regulations, of
Chapter 154.2, or as identified in
Appendix A, Use Regulations, of
Appendix D, 2000 Zoning Code, or is precluded by maximum density limits for a
zoning district, as identified in
Appendix B, Densities, Lot Sizes and Dimensions, of
Chapter 154.2, or as identified in Appendices E and F of
Appendix D, 2000 Zoning Code, such uses shall be allowed to be established,
with the issuance of a special use permit, in existing non-residential
buildings subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Prohibited zoning districts. Dwelling units as authorized and
created under this section shall not be allowed in the Conservation, Existing
Industrial, or Working Waterfront zoning districts.
      (2)   Existing building used. The proposed residential dwelling unit(s)
shall make use of a building or portion which is no less than ten years old as
of the date of application for a special use permit, as authorized. Such
buildings may be renovated and additions of up to 25% of the existing square
footage are permitted.
      (3)   Multiple uses. In addition to proposed residential dwelling units,
buildings utilized may be used for other non-residential uses as allowed per
Appendix A of
Chapter 154.2 and/or Appendix A of
Appendix D.
      (4)   Number of units/density. No more than one residential dwelling unit
may be established subject to this section without meeting the requirements of
§
154.2.108 (D)(2). Regardless, units created subject to this section shall not
be subject to density limits as identified in
Appendix B, Densities, Lot Sizes and Dimensions, of
Chapter 154.2, or as identified in Appendices E and F of
Appendix D, 2000 Zoning Code, or otherwise subject to a density limit or
maximum number of units, except that the maximum number of units created in any
individual building shall be limited to eight units in all districts other than
Waterfront Village - Waterfront Commercial District (WV-WC), Town Edge -
Commercial General District (TE-CG), or Commercial District (C-1), or as such
density or maximum number of units may be further limited by conditions imposed
on a special use permit.
      (5)   Short-term rentals. Dwelling units established subject to this
section shall not be used as short-term rentals; such prohibition may be
imposed through conditions applied to any special use permit issued pursuant to
this section.
      (6)   Parking. Parking shall comply with applicable requirements
contained in §
154.2.205 thru §
154.2.213 of the zoning ordinance (i.e., "OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING").
      (7)   Impervious surfaces and open space requirements. Except where
necessary to provide additional parking to meet off-street parking
requirements, no new impervious surfaces, including but not limited to
accessory structures, building additions, or driveways, may be created that
would result in a construction footprint (including the existing building)
greater than 60% of the site. Open space must be maintained in accordance with
the requirements in this chapter.
      (8)   Utilities. All water and wastewater systems serving dwelling units
shall meet Northampton County, Virginia Dept. of Health (VDH) and Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) requirements.
      (9)   Lighting. All lighting in conjunction with proposed dwelling units
shall be proposed in conjunction with the special use permit process and
subject to review, approval, and any conditions imposed.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Ord. passed 4-9-2024)
§ 154.2.127 LOW IMPACT COMMERCIAL USES.
    In order to further the Comprehensive Plan's goals of economic self-
sufficiency for all citizens and the preservation of rural character, certain
low-impact commercial uses noted in
Appendix A may be allowed by right in residentially-zoned areas and will not
require commercial zoning. Care must be taken to ensure that any proposed
commercial use meets the following conditions to ensure that the integrity of
the primary zoning district is maintained and that impacts on the surrounding
community are mitigated.
   (A)   Home occupation. A low-impact commercial use conducted in an owner- or
renter-occupied dwelling or accessory structure(s) accessory to an owner- or
renter-occupied dwelling provided that the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Use of the dwelling or accessory structure(s) for the home
occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes by its occupants.
      (2)   Not more than 45% of the floor area of the dwelling or accessory
structure(s) shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the dwelling,
accessory structure(s), or premises, other than the signage as provided below,
or any visible or audible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation. No
equipment or process shall be used which creates noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odor, or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses from
off the residential lot of the dwelling unit. No equipment or process shall be
used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television
receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in live voltage off the
premises;
      (4)   If specifically identified in
Appendix A as a use not allowed or a use requiring a special use permit in
particular zoning districts, that specific use shall be subject to the more
restrictive regulations set forth in this chapter;
      (5)   It will be the responsibility of the owner or renter of the
property to abide by any restrictive covenants or deed restrictions placed on
the property. Northampton County has no legal authority to enforce such
restrictions; and
      (6)   Home occupations shall be divided into two categories: home
business/office and micro- business/office. The two categories of home
occupations shall meet the general criteria stated above and the criteria
stated below specific to each category:
         (a)   Home business/office shall be a business or office use
approvable with a zoning clearance and shall meet the following criteria:
            1.   Direct sales of products, goods and services produced from a
home business/ office shall be permitted on premises;
            2.   Parking needs generated by such home business/office shall be
met on site;
            3.   One sign not exceeding four square feet, non-illuminated, may
be placed in accordance with §
154.2.190 et seq.;
            4.   The home business/office may employ residents of the dwelling
and one full-time employee or one full-time equivalent who is not a resident of
the dwelling;
            5.    Documentation shall be provided as part of the zoning
clearance process that any additional required approvals and/or permits from
other local, state or federal agencies such as the Virginia Department of
Transportation and the Virginia Department of Health that are specific to the
home business/office use have been obtained;
            6.   All home business/office zoning clearances shall be issued to
the owner or renter who occupies the dwelling and shall not run with the land.
All such zoning clearances shall be null and void when the owner or renter of
the dwelling ceases to operate the home business/office use permitted for the
location designated on the zoning clearance; and
            7.    After a zoning clearance has been approved for a home
business/office use, a business license shall be obtained if required by the
Commissioner of the Revenue.
         (b)    Micro-business/office shall be a business or office use allowed
by right without the issuance of a zoning clearance and shall meet the
following criteria:
            1.   Direct sales of products, goods and services produced from a
micro-business/ office shall not be permitted on premises and shall be provided
or delivered off-site;
            2.   A micro-business/office shall have no outside storage or
additional vehicle traffic beyond that generally associated with a household or
a farm;
            3.   Signage shall not be allowed;
            4.   A micro-business/office may only employ residents of the
dwelling;
            5.   It is the responsibility of the micro-business/office owner to
obtain any additional required approvals and/or permits from other local, state
and federal agencies such as the Virginia Department of Transportation and the
Virginia Department of Health that are specific to the micro-business/office
use that is proposed;
            6.   If the micro-business/office criteria cannot be met, the
proposed use will be considered for a home business/office and a zoning
clearance will be required; and
            7.   A micro-business/office use shall obtain a business license if
required by the Commissioner of the Revenue.
   (B)   Adaptive re-use business.
      (1)   It is the intent of Northampton County by providing the adaptive
re-use business designation to foster the rehabilitation and adaptive re-use of
existing buildings in rural areas and to facilitate the development of low-
impact businesses compatible with the surrounding rural areas.
      (2)   Adaptive re-use business shall be any one of, but not limited to,
the specifically named types of business listed in division (B)(3) below which
conform to the following criteria. Generally, adaptive re-use businesses
require a minor special use permit. A major special use permit will be required
for projects that have a significant impact on the community. Some uses listed
as adaptive re-use businesses in this section also appear elsewhere in
Appendix A. In those cases, the adaptive re-use business criteria are not
applicable, and the least restrictive requirements shall apply. Adaptive re-use
business differs from a home occupation in that no residence is required on the
site and there is no restriction on the number of employees except as indicated
below.
      (3)   Criteria. All adaptive re-use businesses shall meet all of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Rural character. The business shall be consistent with the
surrounding community and the character of the district in which it is located.
         (b)   Existing buildings used. The adaptive re-use business shall make
use of buildings existing as of October 21, 2009, as verified by the Zoning
Administrator. Such building(s) may be renovated. The existing building(s) must
be the principal structure(s) used by the business; however, additions are
permitted for adaptive re-use businesses up to 50% of the existing square
footage. The existing buildings do not need to meet the criteria contained in
Appendix B; however, all additions up to 50% of the existing square footage
must meet the requirements of
Appendix B, including setbacks and the like.
         (c)   Impervious surfaces and open space requirements. No new
impervious surfaces, including accessory structures, building additions, or
driveways, may be created that would result in a construction footprint
(including the existing building) greater than 60% of the site. Open space must
be maintained in accordance with requirements in this chapter.
         (d)   Adaptive re-use businesses water and wastewater systems shall
meet Northampton County, Virginia Department of Health (VDH) and Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) requirements. Additionally, no
adaptive re-use business project which requires a Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality water withdrawal permit shall qualify as an adaptive re-
use business.
         (e)   Signage. Signs on site shall be in accordance with §
154.2.190 and must be approved as part of the special use permit process.
         (f)   Illumination. There shall be no external illumination of an
adaptive re-use business that is not consistent with the original use of the
existing building in which it is housed. Desired illumination may be proposed
and determined in conjunction with the special use permit process.
         (g)   Outside storage. Outside storage must be completely screened
from off-site view by appropriate fencing or vegetation. Subsequent loss of
such screening shall be cause for the issuance of an order by the Zoning
Administrator requiring the termination of the adaptive re-use business until
such time as the screening is replaced.
         (h)   The application shall include a detailed narrative of the
proposed project describing the elements of the project and how the proposed
project benefits the citizens of Northampton County.
      (4)   List of adaptive re-use businesses.  Adaptive re-use businesses
shall be limited to the following specific businesses. Other comparable types
of businesses that are deemed appropriate through a major special use permit
may be considered.
         (a)   Adult daycare (up to six);
         (b)   Animal grooming and training, animal feed/hay supply, farrier,
domestic animal breeding, domestic animal training, equestrian training/
instruction, tack and harness supplier;
         (c)   Antique shops;
         (d)   Arborist;
         (e)   Artist, artisan studios and galleries, ceramics studios, design
studios, graphic arts, glass works, jewelry assembly and similar;
         (f)   Auction markets;
         (g)   Barber or beauty shops;
         (h)   Bed and breakfast;
         (i)   Boat building and repair;
         (j)   Catering services, off-premise;
         (k)   Clubs and lodges;
         (l)   Conference or retreat center, up to ten rooms;
         (m)   Country store;
         (n)   Farm machinery repair;
         (o)   Farm market, enclosed not to exceed 10,000 square feet;
         (p)   Furniture repair/ cabinet-making/ carpentry shop;
         (q)   Game/domestic livestock butchering;
         (r)   Guide or outfitter services;
         (s)   Handcraft shops producing and selling principally products made
on-site;
         (t)   Inns;
         (u)   Instructional workshop/classroom;
         (v)   Micro-brewery, to include cideries and micro-distilleries and
similar;
         (w)   Mixed use occupancies that may combine multiple uses in a single
project;
         (x)   Museum;
         (y)   Nursery/daycare (six or less);
         (z)   Offices (business or professional, general, musician, graphic
artists, and similar);
         (aa)   Repair garage and shop (cars, small engines, welding);
         (bb)   Restaurant (the seating limitation/capacity will be determined
by the Virginia Department of Health, the Virginia Department of Environmental
Quality, and Building and Fire Code requirements, along with available
parking);
         (cc)   Retail, not to exceed 10,000 square feet;
         (dd)   Specialty food production;
         (ee)   Veterinary services;
         (ff)   Workshops (instructional, furniture repair, cabinet building).
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2023; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2024)
§ 154.2.128 USE CATEGORIES.
   (A)   The potential uses of land, buildings, structures, and tidal areas
within Northampton County are arranged into the following categories to be
referred to as use categories with the specific names given below. Division
into these use categories is for convenience and ease of reference. A single
use may appear in more than one category if such repetition facilitates easy
use of
Appendix A.
Category # Category Name
Category # Category Name
1          Agricultural Uses
2          Commercial Uses
3          Community Service Uses
4          Industrial Uses
5          Marine-Related Uses
6          Recreational Uses
7 SF       Single-Family Residential Uses
7 MF       Multi-Family Residential Uses
 
   (B)   (1)   Letter codes for table. Appendix A identifies each use category,
specific uses and the zoning districts in which each use may be located in a
particular zoning district as a matter of right (R), by minor special use
permit (M/S), major special use permit (S), or zoning clearance (Z), and when a
wetlands permit (W) is required. A use which does not appear in
Appendix A is not permitted in Northampton County. No use may take place in any
zoning district which is not in conformance with the uses identified in
Appendix A.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply.
         COMMERCIAL. A use that is principally offered by its owner to others
for a fee.
         PRIVATE. A use that is principally for the benefit of its owner,
whether for his/her profit or not.
         PUBLIC. A use owned by a government entity, or by an agency approved
by the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County to operate the use for the
benefit of three or more dwellings or structures or the benefit of the general
population of Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.2.140 PURPOSE.
   The requirements set forth in this subchapter supplement and qualify the
district regulations which appear elsewhere in this chapter and shall apply in
the specific areas enumerated, notwithstanding other regulations set forth.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.141 GENERAL MODIFICATIONS TO YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Yards to be open. When yards (also referred to as setbacks) are
required in a district, every part of a required yard shall be unobstructed by
a building, structure or use except that:
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces are permitted in a front, side or rear
yard, provided that no parking space shall create a visual obstruction or
hindrance to traffic on any abutting street;
      (2)   Accessory buildings are permitted in a rear or side yard, but not
within five feet of a property line unless otherwise specified in this chapter;
      (3)   Aboveground architectural features such as cornices, eaves, fire
escapes, stairs, landings, bay windows, chimneys, but not walls or porches, may
protrude into any required yard a distance not to exceed one-fifth of the
required yard or six feet, whichever is the lesser distance;
      (4)   For any structure regulated by the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) being added to an existing structure, any property line setback may be
reduced up to a maximum of zero feet if the Zoning Administrator determines
that there is no location for such structure on the site that will comply with
the required setback. If there is a location on the site for the ADA-compliant
structure that will meet the required property line setback, that location must
be utilized. If an ADA structure must encroach into the required setbacks, the
rear setback will be considered first and the side setbacks second.
Encroachment into the front setback will only be allowed when the first and
second options will not accommodate the placement of the ADA structure, or if
two ADA structures are required for safe and adequate access. Structural
features of the existing primary structure and safety issues will be considered
in determining the appropriate location of any ADA structure;
      (5)   Shoreline stabilization structures such as bulkheads, groins,
revetments and breakwaters regulated by the Northampton County Wetlands Board
shall be permitted within the side, rear and shoreline setback and within all
resource protection area components;
      (6)   Piers, board walks and beach access stairs regulated by the
Northampton County Wetlands Board shall be permitted within the rear and within
all resource protection area components;
      (7)   Statues and flagpoles shall be allowed within the front, rear and
side setbacks provided that such structure shall not create a visual
obstruction or hindrance to traffic on abutting streets;
      (8)   Heating, cooling and other mechanical structures 100 square feet
each or less in size shall be permitted within the rear and side setbacks;
      (9)   Utility structures associated with communications, sanitation,
electric, gas and water shall be permitted within the rear and side setbacks.
These structures may be allowed within resource protection area components
through a waiver, exception or exemption process and within areas regulation by
the Northampton County Wetlands Board through the appropriate approval or
permitting process.
   (B)   Uncovered porches and other projections into yards. Terraces,
uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features which are no higher than
three feet above the floor level of the ground (first) story may project up to
six feet into a required side or rear yard, except in a Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation Area buffer, provided that these projections are not within six
feet of the adjacent lot lines.
   (C)   Open fire escapes, balconies, chimneys.  Open lattice-enclosed fire
escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers and
the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may project into the required
rear yard not more than five feet.
   (D)   Multiple buildings on lot.
      (1)   Multiple buildings used for commercial, institutional, or
industrial purposes. Where a lot is lawfully used for a commercial,
institutional, or industrial purpose, more than one main building may be
located upon the lot but only when each separate building has independent open
space equivalent to the yard requirements of the district in which the lot is
located.
      (2)   Multiple buildings used for multi-family dwelling purposes. Where a
lot is used for multi-family residential or institutional purposes, there may
be more than one multi-family building on the lot if permitted in the district.
In such cases, there shall be provided between buildings that are parallel, or
within 45 degrees of being parallel, a minimum of 20 feet for one-story
buildings, 30 feet for two-story buildings and 40 feet for three-story
buildings. No dimension between any two buildings shall be less than 15 feet.
When such buildings are of varying height, the buildings with the greater
height shall be used for determining and applying separation regulations.
   (E)   If a lot is zoned NB, WV-NB, WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW
abuts a lot that is zoned NB, WV-NB, WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW,
the side and / or rear minimum setback shall be reduced to 0 feet pursuant to §
154.2.141 General Modification to Yard Regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Amendment adopted 7-11-2017)
§ 154.2.142 FRONT SETBACK/YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prevailing front setbacks/yards on partially or fully built-up blocks.
The following provisions apply to those legal lots of record on the date of
adoption of this chapter where application of the required front setback would
be inconsistent with surrounding development and where indicated in Appendix B
that the use of the prevailing front setback/yard is permitted.
      (1)   Where there is a prevailing front setback, such prevailing front
setback must be observed.
      (2)   When there is no prevailing setback, the front setback distances in
Appendix B shall apply.
   (B)   Projections into front yards.
      (1)   An uncovered and unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into
the required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
      (2)   An enclosed vestibule containing not more than 40 square feet may
project into the required front yard for a distance not exceeding four feet.
      (3)   Awnings may project into the required front yard for a distance not
exceeding three feet.
   (C)   Corner lots. The required front yard on a corner lot shall be observed
on the frontage having the lesser dimension; the other frontage shall be
considered a side yard (see separate rule for side yards).
   (D)   Double frontage lots. In cases where a subdivision lot was approved
and legally in existence as of October 21, 2009, and that lot extends through a
block from one street to another street and where a front setback/yard is
required from such streets, front setbacks/yards shall be provided along each
street frontage. After October 21, 2009, no such double frontage lots shall be
created, except if created by a boundary line adjustment to create a less
nonconforming lot.
   (E)   Signs and poles. When permitted in a district, signs or poles may be
erected in a required front yard.
   (F) Motor fuel pump islands. Motor fuel pumps and pump islands, including
accompanying unenclosed canopies, may be located within a front yard in a
district that permits motor fuel service stations; provided they are located
not less than 25 feet from the street right-of-way line.
   (G) In no non-residential district shall accessory uses be located less than
25 feet from the boundary line of any lot zoned for residential uses.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the provisions above, under no circumstances are
projections, poles, signs, structures, or items of any other kind that would
impair or impede the views of motorists on adjacent streets, allowed in front
yards.
   (I)   In an existing industrial district, the front setback shall be reduced
to 25 feet when structures are situated on a private road that does not convey
and is not planned to convey through traffic.
   (J)   Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation Areas resource area 100-foot
vegetated buffer area and front setback. The purpose of reducing the front
setback is to allow the principal building to be moved forward towards the
front of the lot, thereby reducing potential encroachment on the Chesapeake/
Atlantic Preservation Areas resource protection area buffer at the back of the
lot. The front setback may be reduced to eliminate or reduce the need for an
administrative waiver from the required Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation Areas
resource protection area buffer when all of the following criteria have been
met.
      (1)   The lot shall be undeveloped and eligible for a Chesapeake/Atlantic
Preservation Area administrative buffer waiver;
      (2)   The front setback reduction shall only apply to the principal
building; and
      (3)   The maximum reduction shall be ten feet, except that in no case
shall the total front setback be reduced to less than 50 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-10, passed 11- -2016; Am. Ord. 2021-02,
passed 7-13-2021)
§ 154.2.143 SIDE YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Existing residential subdivisions. Residential subdivisions with
lawful plats of record dated and recorded before December 28, 2000, may be
allowed to develop using a side setback/yard of 25 feet in the Agricultural
District and 15 feet in the residential districts.
   (B)   Corner lots. On corner lots where the street abutting the side yard
line is a Class III, IV, V, or VI road as defined in §§
154.2.100 et seq.:
      (1)   The side yard regulations shall apply to the two-thirds of the lot
which is nearest to the street which the main building faces or is intended to
face;
      (2)   The following regulations shall apply to the rear one-third of the
lot:
         (a)   Any building or structure or part thereof must be set back in
conformity with the front yard requirements of the district in which the lot is
located;
         (b)   On the rear portion of a corner lot of record which is less than
60 feet in width no building or structure or part thereof shall be required to
be set back more than 20% of the lot width.
   (C)   Side yards to duplexes and town houses and multi-family dwellings. For
the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family dwelling/duplex, town
house, townhouse cluster, or a multi-family dwelling building shall be
considered as one building occupying one lot.
   (D)   Dwelling above commercial. Unless otherwise provided for in this
chapter by a specific regulation, where dwellings are permitted to be erected
above an existing predominantly commercial establishment, the required side
yard shall be the same as required for the commercial building.
   (E)   Commercial uses in a residential building.  Unless otherwise provided
for in this chapter by a specific regulation, where commercial uses are
lawfully in the same building as a residential structure, the side yard
requirements for residential dwellings in the district in which the use is
located shall apply to both the residential and commercial uses.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.144 REAR YARD REGULATIONS.
   Lots abutting an alley. Where the rear line of a lot abuts an alley, up to
one-half of the width of such alley may be counted toward the required rear
yard, but in no case shall the rear yard be reduced to less than five feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.145 HEIGHT AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public/quasi-public building height. Public, quasi-public or public
service buildings such as hospitals, institutions, schools, churches and
similar uses, when permitted in a district, may be erected to any height,
provided the building is set back from each yard line at least one foot for
each two feet of additional building height above the height limit otherwise
provided in the district in which the building is located.
   (B)   Non-residential chimneys, steeples, towers, and similar structures.
Chimneys, church steeples, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, grain elevators or necessary mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to a height not exceeding 100 feet.
   (C)   Water towers. Water towers may be erected to a height not exceeding
150 feet. With the approval of a special use permit by the Board of
Supervisors, a water tower may be erected at a height exceeding 150 feet.
   (D)   Farm building height. Farm buildings that are not dwellings, when
permitted in a district, may be erected to a maximum height of 45 feet provided
the building is set back from each yard line at least one foot for each two
feet of additional building height above the height limit otherwise provided in
the district in which the building is located.
   (E)   Enclosed mechanical and manufacturing equipment. Parapet and fire
walls, monitors and roof structures for stairways, elevators, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment which are necessary for the mechanical
operation of a building or enclosed manufacturing process may exceed the height
requirements of the district in which the building is located provided that all
such structures do not occupy more than 25% of the roof area of the building or
structures.
   (F)   Communication and broadcasting towers.  Radio, T.V., electrical
transmission towers, microwave towers, television antennas, radio aerials, and
similar structures may exceed the height requirements of the district in which
they are located but shall not exceed a height of 199 feet.
   (G)   General regulations applicable to residential districts. The maximum
height for any single-family dwelling shall be as provided in Appendix B,
Densities, Lot Sizes and Dimensions, except that:
      (1)   Widow's walks with a three-foot tall railing may be constructed on
the roofs of single family dwellings; and
      (2)   In the Agricultural/Rural Business District, additional building
height may be permitted where the building is set back from each property line
(front, rear, and sides) two additional feet horizontally for each one foot of
additional height over 35 feet, up to a maximum of 45 feet.
   (H)   Modifications applicable to town edge-commercial general district,
existing business district, and commercial district. The maximum height for any
principal structure shall be 35 feet, except that additional building height
may be permitted where the building is set back from each property line (front,
rear, and sides) the distance of the established setbacks (see Appendix B to
this chapter) plus two additional feet horizontally for each one foot of
additional height over 35 feet, up to a maximum of 45 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.146 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND FENCES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings may be constructed in a front
yard as provided in §
154.2.064 or rear or side yard in conformity with the regulations for accessory
buildings in the district in which such use is located and the following
regulations.
      (1)   When an accessory building is part of a main building. Accessory
buildings located closer than ten feet to a main building shall be construed to
be a part of the main building for the purposes of yard regulations and such
buildings, whether connected to the main building or not, and shall observe all
front, side and rear yard regulations applicable to main buildings.
      (2)   Use of accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be used for
dwelling purposes other than as provided in Appendix A.
   (B)   Tents. Tents or tent-like structures shall not be erected as main
buildings on any lot or tract in any district, temporarily or permanently,
unless specifically provided for in the district regulations.
   (C)   Walls, fences, and obstructions.
      (1)   Walls and fences in yards. Yard requirements shall not apply to any
fence, freestanding wall or retaining wall, which are erected in conformity
with (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) below and other applicable county ordinances.
Fences, for the purpose (a) and (b), are constructed using posts for supports.
Walls, for the purpose of (c), (d) and (e), in general, are constructed with a
continuous foundation, tie-back system, sheathing or similar construction
methods above and/or below the ground. Bulkheads or similar structures
regulated by the Northampton County Wetlands Board are not considered retaining
walls.
         (a)   Fences shall be permitted within the front, rear and side
setbacks provided that the fence shall not create a visual obstruction or
hindrance to traffic on any abutting street and complies with corner lot
regulations.
         (b)   Fences shall be permitted within the resource protection area
buffer component provided that the fence does not impede the overland flow of
water. Fences shall not be permitted within any other resource protection area
component, except the buffer, and not within areas regulated by the Northampton
County Wetlands Board.
         (c)   Freestanding walls and retaining walls shall be permitted within
the front, rear and side setbacks provided that such wall does not create a
visual obstruction or hindrance to traffic on any abutting street and complies
with corner lot regulations.
         (d)   Freestanding walls shall not be permitted within any resource
protection area components or within areas regulated by the Northampton County
Wetlands Board.
         (e)   Retaining walls shall be permitted within the resource
protection area buffer component only as shoreline erosion projects permitted
under §
154.2.163(I)(1)(d). Retaining walls shall not be permitted within any other
resource protection area components, except the buffer, or within areas
regulated by the Northampton County Wetlands Board.
      (2)   Corner lots, residential districts. On a corner lot in a
residential district, no planting, wall, fence or other obstruction to
motorist's vision shall be planted, erected or maintained higher than three
feet above the adjoining edge of pavement within a triangle comprised of two
20-foot right-of-way legs measured from the point of intersection of the
rights-of-way of the two intersecting street lines.
      (3)   Corner lots, non-residential districts.  On a corner lot in any
commercial or industrial district which requires a front yard, no planting,
wall, fence, sign or display or any other obstruction to motorist's vision
shall be planted, erected or maintained higher than three feet above the
adjoining edge of pavement within a triangle comprised of two ten-foot right-
of-way legs.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.147 PERMITTED LOT FRONTAGE.
   The minimum lot frontage of a lot shall be not less than the lot width at
the building line; except, that where lot lines are established radially from a
curved street so as to increase the width of the lot with the distance from the
street line, the frontage of such lots thus created may be reduced to not less
than 70% of the lot width at the building line; provided further, that the
frontage of any lot located on the turnaround of a cul-de-sac (dead-end street)
may be reduced to not less than 50% of the lot width.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 154.2.160 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   This subchapter contains special overlay districts which supplement the
other regulations of this chapter. Overlay districts established herein
include: Historic Preservation District (HP); Chesapeake/ Atlantic Preservation
District (CAP); Highway Corridor District (HC); Airport Protection District
(AP); and US 13 Corridor District (US13CD).
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.161 HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT (HP).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this Historic Preservation Overlay
District is to promote appreciation for and protection of the character and
heritage of the villages, towns and countryside of Northampton County by
preserving and enhancing historic districts and their gateways, buildings,
structures, places and areas (historic properties) that have special
historical, cultural, architectural or archeological significance, consistent
with VA Code §§ 15.2-2283, 15.2-2284, and 15.2-2306. Specifically, the HP
regulations are designed to:
      (1)   Preserve and improve the quality of life for residents of
Northampton County and the historic quality of neighborhoods by protecting
historic properties;
      (2)   Educate residents and visitors about Northampton County's cultural
and historic heritage and foster a sense of pride in this heritage;
      (3)   Strengthen Northampton County's economic base and promote tourism
by protecting historic properties that enhance the quality of Northampton
County's villages, towns and countryside and that are attractive and
interesting to visitors;
      (4)   Stabilize and raise property value by providing incentives for
upkeep and rehabilitation of property;
      (5)   Recognize that the destruction or alteration of historic properties
or encroachment upon them may cause the permanent loss of resources that are of
great value to the people of Northampton County;
      (6)   Provide incentives and controls to encourage preservation of
Northampton County's historic heritage and to ensure that losses are avoided
when possible;
      (7)   Encourage uses that will lead to the continuance and improvement of
historic properties in a manner appropriate to the historic heritage of
Northampton County.
   (B)   Historic Preservation Districts. Historic Preservation Districts are
hereby created and shall be referred to herein as HP Districts. Such HP
Districts may be created in the manner described in this section when the Board
of Supervisors determines that a site is of architectural or historic
significance to the county and should be perpetuated for the general welfare of
the county.
      (1)   The HP District may be applied in the following situations:
         (a)   Building or structures officially designated by the Virginia
Board of Historic Resources;
         (b)    Buildings or structures within the county having an important
historic, architectural, archeological or cultural interest and recommended by
the county's Historic Review Board (HRB) as being worthy of HP designation;
         (c)    Historic areas within the county as defined by VA Code § 15.2-
2201 and recommended by the HRB as being worthy of HP designation.
      (2)   Any area in which a structure or group of structures having an
important historical, architectural or cultural interest is located may be
designated a HP District if it meets one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Is associated with persons, events, activities or institutions
significant to the nation, to the Commonwealth of Virginia, or to Northampton
County;
         (b)   Contains buildings whose exterior design or features embody the
distinctive design characteristics of one or more historic eras, styles,
materials, or construction methods, or exemplify the work of a master;
         (c)   Reflects the cultural, political, economic, social,
architectural or historical heritage of the towns, hamlets, current and former
settlement areas, and villages of Northampton County;
         (d)   Contains qualities that significantly contribute to present-day
knowledge and understanding of lifestyles, activities, events or experiences of
a previous era;
         (e)   Is likely to yield information to history or prehistory.
      (3)   Regulations within the HP District are intended to:
         (a)   Protect against destruction of or encroachment upon such
historic landmarks and to encourage their use in such a way as to promote their
continuance, conservation and improvement in a manner appropriate to the
preservation of the cultural, social, economic, political, architectural, or
archaeological heritage of the county;
         (b)   Prevent creation of environmental influences adverse to such
purposes;
         (c)   Assure that new buildings, structures, and uses within an HP
District will be in keeping with the character to be preserved and enhanced.
      (4)   Identifying HP Districts:
         (a)   Potential HP Districts may be identified by the HRB, by
individual citizens, by community groups, by the Northampton County Planning
Commission or the Northampton County Board of Supervisors or by the Board of
Historic Resources. The HRB may encourage local groups of Northampton County
citizens to identify their own villages, towns or neighborhoods as HP
Districts, where appropriate;
         (b)   Once a potential HP District is identified, application forums
and directions for their completion may be obtained from the HRB. Applications
must include the location and boundaries of the proposed district, a
description of the District, a statement of significance, a list of properties
within the district and the owner of each, and other information required by
the HRB. Maps and photographs should be included that define the boundaries and
illustrate the significance of the proposed district;
         (c)   A completed application for the creation of a HP District will
be submitted to the HRB for review. The Historic Review Board will review the
application with VDHR;
         (d)   A public meeting will be held to review and evaluate each HP
District application. Notice of the public meeting will be posted on each
property within the proposed HP District at least ten days prior to the
meeting. After the conclusion of the public meeting and public comment period,
the HRB will report its recommendation and submit the application to the
Northampton County Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors, in keeping
with the process of review established under VA Code § 15.2-2204, as amended.
      (5)   Boundary delineation:
         (a)   The boundaries of a HP District will be drawn to include all
lands specifically related to and bearing on the character of the historic
property and/or area. The boundaries will be sufficiently large to provide a
landscape unit and afford transitional area needed to control potentially
adverse influences and to ensure that the context of the historic property and
district, and its features, are protected. Such boundaries may include both
sides of a street where appropriate to accomplish the preservation objective;
         (b)   The boundaries of an HP District designating a historic landmark
shall be delineated on the official zoning map.
      (6)   Amending the HP District boundaries and regulations:
         (a)   Amendments to the provisions of this section, as well as to any
HP District boundary, including the delineation of any new HP District, shall
be in accordance with procedures for other text and/or map amendments to this
chapter.
         (b)   The HRB may propose to the Planning Commission and/or the Board
of Supervisors such amendments as deemed appropriate, including the
establishment of HP Districts and revisions to existing HP District boundaries.
Upon receipt of such proposal, the Board of Supervisors or the Planning
Commission may initiate such amendment;
         (c)   The Planning Commission, in cooperation with the HRB, shall
prepare and submit a report to substantiate the proposed amendment. Such report
shall propose HP District boundaries as well as document the historic and/or
architectural significance of the building, structures or sites to be
protected;
         (d)   The Planning Commission's report may include, but is not limited
to, recommended detailed regulations to be applied within the District and to
supplement or modify general regulations set forth herein. Such detailed
regulations may include permitted and prohibited principal and accessory uses
and structures, minimum lot and yard requirements, maximum lot coverage by all
buildings, maximum height of structures, off-street parking and loading
requirements, control of signs and exterior illumination, control of exterior
character of buildings and sites when visible from a public way only, and
control of additions to or removal of existing buildings where such controls
and regulations are only for the express purpose of preventing changes which
are architecturally incompatible with the historic landmark to be preserved.
      (7)   It is further the intent of this section that in the identification
of historic landmarks, in delineating any HP District on the zoning district
map, and in the administration of this section, the Board of Supervisors and
the Planning Commission shall seek and obtain the advice and assistance of the
Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission and the HRB, which is created herein,
and other organizations or individuals qualified by interest, training and
experience in achieving the objectives set forth.
   (C)   Action by Board of Supervisors. In considering the adoption or
creation of, and the amendment to, an HP District, the Board of Supervisors
will give significant consideration to the statements and recommendations of
the Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission, as well as the HRB and the Planning
Commission. Appeals of decisions to create or amend an HP District shall be to
the Circuit Court of Northampton County.
   (D)   Historic Review Board.
      (1)   Creation. A Historic Review Board (HRB) is created to administer
this overlay district. The HRB is created pursuant to the authority of VA Code
§ 15.2-2306, for the purposes set forth in the Code of Virginia and in this
section. The HRB shall consist of six members to be appointed by the Board of
Supervisors.
      (2)   Membership. The HRB members shall:
         (a)   Be residents of Northampton County;
         (b)   Have a demonstrated interest in and knowledge of the historic
character of Northampton County;
         (c)   If possible, at least two members should meet the Secretary of
the Interior's Professional Qualifications Standards for history, archeology,
architectural history, architecture or historic architecture;
         (d)   At least one member shall be appointed from the Planning
Commission upon recommendation to the Board of Supervisors by the Planning
Commission;
         (e)   If possible, one member shall be a licensed real estate broker,
one shall be a licensed architect, and one shall be a practicing attorney with
membership in the Virginia Bar;
         (f)   Two shall be citizens-at-large.
      (3)   Administration.
         (a)   HRB members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Initial
appointments shall be three members for four years and three members for two
years. The term of the Planning Commission member shall be concurrent with his/
her appointment to the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The HRB shall elect from its own membership a Chairperson, a
Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary, who shall serve annual terms and may succeed
themselves.
         (c)   The HRB shall meet as needed, but not less than twice a year.
Special meetings of the HRB may be called by the Chairperson or by two members
upon written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall mail to all members
of the HRB, at least five days in advance of a special meeting, a written
notice fixing the time and place of the meeting and the purpose thereof.
Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of the special
meeting has been fixed at a regular meeting, or if all members are present at
the special meeting or file a written waiver of notice. For the conduct of any
hearing and the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less than a
majority of all the members of the HRB. The HRB may make, alter, or rescind
rules and forms for its procedures consistent with the ordinances of the county
and the general laws of the state. HRB members are required to exempt
themselves from voting on any action in which their financial interests or
those of their immediate family are directly involved.
      (4)   Responsibilities. The HRB shall give counsel to the Planning
Commission, the Board of Supervisors and/or the agent designated by the Board
of Supervisors on rezonings, special use requests, development plans, permits,
and approval requests, regarding historic resources. In addition to the
aforementioned duties and powers, the HRB shall have the following duties:
         (a)   To assist and advise the Board of Supervisors, the Planning
Commission, and other county departments and agencies in matters involving
historically significant sites and buildings, such as appropriate land usage,
parking facilities and signs;
         (b)   To advise owners of historic landmarks, buildings or structures
on problems of preservation;
         (c)   To propose from time to time, as deemed appropriate, the
establishment of historic districts and revision of the existing historic
districts;
         (d)   To identify, develop, and implement positive incentives to
encourage maintenance, rehabilitation and reuse of historic properties that
recognizes and perpetuates their historic significance;
         (e)   To develop mechanisms for identifying historically significant
surplus publicly-owned structures and creating incentives for adaptive reuse
that will return them to positive use;
         (f)   To sponsor and encourage public information activities to
publicize historic preservation efforts, disseminate information on historic
preservation benefits, issues, and concerns. Activities may include, for
example, open houses, walking tours, speeches, brochures, public meetings,
press releases, and films;
         (g)   To conduct or cause to be conducted a continuing survey of
historic properties in Northampton County according to guidelines established
by Virginia Department of Historic Resources;
         (h)   To maintain and develop inventories of historic properties in
Northampton County;
         (i)   To advise Northampton County residents about measures that they
may take to preserve the historic character of their structures, districts,
towns and villages;
         (j)   To act in an advisory role to other officials and departments of
Northampton County government regarding protection and enhancement of historic
properties, including providing advice and recommendations on particular
projects and developments;
         (k)   To review all proposed National Register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of Northampton County. If the review of a
nomination normally would involve a professional discipline not represented on
the HRB, the HRB must seek appropriate advice before rendering its decision;
         (l)   To review projects and developments that may change the historic
character of a HP District and report findings;
         (m)   To formulate necessary administrative procedures and
requirements for such certificates;
         (n)   To develop specific guidelines for each HP District that
delineate specific criteria for the approval of certificates of
appropriateness;
         (o)   To prepare an annual report on its activities, recommendations
for future historic preservation priorities, concerns and actions, and the
status of historic preservation within Northampton County;
         (p)   To formulate recommendations concerning the establishment of a
system of markers for selected historic sites and buildings, including
proposals for the installation and care of such historic markers;
         (q)   To coordinate local historic preservation efforts, cooperate
with and enlist assistance from the Virginia Department of Historic Resources,
the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Commission, and other
interested parties both public and private in its efforts to preserve, restore
and conserve historic and/or aesthetic landmarks, buildings, sites or areas in
the county; and
         (r)   To employ secretarial assistance and pay salaries, wages and
other incurred necessary expenses, pursuant to appropriations by the Board of
Supervisors.
      (5)   Training.
         (a)   Each HRB member shall attend at least one informational or
educational meeting per year pertaining to work and functions of the HRB
relevant to historic preservation. The training must be approved in advance by
the Virginia Department of Historic Resources. The Virginia Department of
Historic Resources may waive this requirement in exceptional circumstances in
the case of any individual member, so long as a majority of members receive
such training in any year.
         (b)   The Virginia Department of Historic Resources will make
orientation materials and training available to the HRB. The materials provided
by the Virginia Department of Historic Resources will be designed to provide a
working knowledge of the roles and operations of federal, Virginia, and local
preservation programs.
   (E)   Criteria for making recommendations and evaluating projects in HP
Districts. In making its recommendations and determining whether a proposed
building or structure, including signs, may be erected, reconstructed, altered
or restored within the HP District, the HRB should evaluate, at a minimum:
      (1)   The historic and architectural significance of the resource;
      (2)   The value and use of the structures involved and those in the
vicinity;
      (3)   Compatibility with and effects on the surrounding properties and
the historic district as a whole, including historic landmarks, buildings, and
structures;
      (4)   Whether or not the proposed project would set a precedent that
would impact other properties in the district;
      (5)   Whether the proposed project imposes inordinate hardship on the
landowner/applicant;
      (6)   The anticipated impact, if any, of the proposal on the county's
tourist industry;
      (7)   Whether the proposed project conforms to the criteria set forth by
the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic
Properties (1992);
      (8)   Whether the applicant's proposals are architecturally compatible
with the motif and character of the HP District;
      (9)   Whether the project is in keeping with the overall character of the
HP District;
      (10)   Whether the height, proportion, openings, spacing, roofs, walls,
fences, landscaping, and scale of the proposed work are compatible with the HP
District;
      (11)   Whether the materials, textures, and colors planned for use are
compatible with the character of the HP District;
   (F)   Additional Regulations. Within an HP District, the following
additional regulations shall apply:
      (1)   Demolition, exterior alteration. No officially designated historic
landmark, building, or structure within an HP District shall be razed,
demolished, removed, or altered in exterior architectural features or
appearance, including the placement of signs, until a certificate of approval
is issued by the Board of Supervisors, acting upon the advice of the HRB.
      (2)   Moving or relocation. No officially designated historic landmark,
building or structure within an HP District shall be moved or relocated where
such moving is detrimental to the public interest or where such relocation
would be obviously incongruous to the historical aspects of the structure and/
or the historic district unless the same is approved by the Board of
Supervisors, acting upon the advice of the HRB.
      (3)   Uses permitted. Within an HP District, the uses allowed shall be
the same as provided for within the respective underlying zoning district.
      (4)   Lot regulations. Lots or portions of lots existing in historic
districts may be combined, but no existing lot, or combination of lots,
parcels, or portions thereof, in single ownership at the time of district
creation shall be reduced in width, depth, or area.
      (5)   Height regulations. Height regulations shall be in accord with
those governing the underlying zoning district and use, except that no heights
shall exceed those of any historic landmarks already in the HP District.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking regulations shall be in accord
with those governing the underlying zoning district and use, except that no
required off-street parking or loading space shall be located in any required
front yard. It is the intent of this regulation to permit off-site parking
where on-site parking would have an adverse effect on appearance, by the
provision of such off-site parking in grouped facilities in interior parking
lots, courts or at other appropriate locations which will be convenient for
users, reduce interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and promote
public safety.
   (H)   Exterior signs. All regulations pursuant to §§
154.2.190 et seq. applicable to the underlying zoning district and use shall be
adhered to. No sign shall be permitted except for advertising to or informing
the public of service, business, occupation, or profession conducted on, in, or
about the premises.
   (I)   Permits; action by Zoning Administrator and Building Official. The
Building Official shall not issue a permit for any erection, reconstruction,
exterior alteration, restoration, demolition, or razing of a building or
structure in a HP District until the same has been approved by the HRB, or the
Board of Supervisors on appeal, following the procedures set forth hereafter.
Upon receipt of an application for a permit in the Historic District, the
Building Official shall act in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   He/she shall forward to the HRB a copy of the application for such
a permit, together with a copy of the site plan, building plans and
specifications filed by the applicant.
      (2)   He/she shall maintain in his/her office a record of all such
applications and of his/her handling and final disposition of the same.
      (3)   He/she shall require applicants to submit a sufficient number of
additional copies of material required to permit compliance with the foregoing.
   (J)   Material to be submitted for review.  Submission of the following
shall be made in connection with any application in the HP District:
architectural plans, site plans, landscaping plans, proposed signs with
appropriate detail as to character, proposed exterior lighting arrangements,
elevations of all portions of structures with important relationships to public
view (with indications as to visual construction materials, design of doors and
windows, colors and relationships to adjoining structures), drawings or product
information on windows, doors, siding materials, paints, and such other
exhibits and reports as are necessary for their determinations. The submission
of any of these materials may be waived by the Zoning Administrator or the HRB
only if such material is clearly not germane to the application and the
material would not assist at all in the review of the application.
   (K)   Decision of the Historic Review Board.
      (1)   If the HRB, on the basis of the review of information received from
the applicant and any other sources, decides against the granting of a permit,
it should indicate to the applicant the changes in plans and specifications, if
any, which in the opinion of the HRB would be necessary to ensure architectural
compatibility so as to protect and/or preserve the historical aspects of the HP
District.
      (2)   The HRB shall submit to the Board of Supervisors in writing and
within 60 days after receipt of the application its counsel concerning the
appropriateness of authorizing a permit for the erection, reconstruction,
exterior alteration, restoration, razing or demolition, or relocation of all or
a part of any building or other structures within the historic district.
   (L)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the HRB may appeal such decision to the Board of Supervisors. The
Board of Supervisors' determination shall be based upon whether the proposed
action is architecturally compatible with the historic landmarks, building and/
or structures in the historic district.
      (2)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Supervisors may appeal such decision to the Circuit
Court of Northampton County for review by filing a petition at law setting
forth the alleged illegality of the action of the Board of Supervisors,
provided that such petition is filed within 30 days after the final decision is
rendered by the Board of Supervisors. The filing of such petition shall stay
the decision of the Board of Supervisors if such decision denies the right to
raze or demolish a historic landmark, building, or structure. The court may
reverse or modify the decision of the Board of Supervisors, in whole or in
part, if it finds upon review that the decision is arbitrary and constitutes an
abuse of discretion, or it may affirm the decision of the Board of Supervisors.
      (3)   In addition to the rights of appeal stated above, the owner of a
historic landmark, building or structure, the razing or demolition of which is
subject to the provisions of this section shall, as a matter of right, be
entitled to raze or demolish such landmark, building or structure, provided
that:
         (a)   The owner has applied to the Board of Supervisors for such
rights;
         (b)   The owner has for the period of time set forth in the time
schedule hereinafter contained and at a price reasonably related to its fair
market value made a bona fide offer to sell landmark, building or structure,
and the land pertaining thereto, to any purchaser who gives reasonable
assurance that the owner is willing to preserve and restore the landmark,
building or structure and the land pertaining thereto;
         (c)   No bona fide contract shall have been executed for the sale of
any such landmark, building or structure, and the land pertaining thereto,
prior to the expiration of the applicable time period set forth in the time
schedule hereinafter contained; and
         (d)   The offer to sell and any offers to buy shall be publicly
advertised.
      (4)   Any appeal which may be taken to the Circuit Court for Northampton
County from the decision of the Board of Supervisors shall not affect the right
of the owner to make the bona fide offer to sell as referred to above. No offer
to sell shall be made more than one year after a final decision by the Board of
Supervisors, but thereafter the owner may renew his/her request to the Board of
Supervisors to approve the razing or demolition of the historic landmark,
building or structure. The time schedule for offers to sell shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Three months when the offering price is less than $25,000;
         (b)   Four months when the offering price is $25,000 or more but less
than $40,000;
         (c)   Five months when the offering price is $40,000 or more but less
than $55,000;
         (d)   Six months when the offering price is $55,000 or more but less
than $75,000;
         (e)   Seven months when the offering price is $75,000 or more but less
than $90,000; and
         (f)   Twelve months when the offering price is $90,000 or more.
   (M)   Incentives.
      (1)   The HRB will identify information regarding incentives to encourage
individual property owners, citizen groups, and communities to carry out
historic preservation and restoration that meets the Secretary of the
Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Historic Preservation (appropriate
renovation or restoration).
      (2)   The HRB will include a section on incentives in their annual report
and present their recommendations to the Board of Supervisors for
implementation.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.162 AIRPORT PROTECTION DISTRICT (AP).
   (A)   Creation and application of the District. The Airport Protection (AP)
District is created as an overlay district to be superimposed on other zoning
districts, pursuant to VA Code §§ 15.2-2283, 15.2-2284, and 15.2-2294. The
provisions of the AP District supplement and are in addition to the provisions
of the underlying zoning districts.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the AP District to protect the safety of
air navigation and the public investment in air navigation facilities by
preventing the development of activities in the vicinity of airports which
could be hazardous to air navigation.
   (C)   AP District defined. The Airport Protection District (AP) shall be
areas on the ground lying beneath the airport approach surfaces, airport
horizontal surfaces and airport transitional surfaces and airport horizon.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIRPORT APPROACH SURFACE. The airport approach surface is an imaginary
surface existing at both ends of a runway. The surface shall begin at the end
of the runway with a width of 250 feet and extend outward for a distance of
5,000 feet to a width of 1,250 feet. The centerline of the surface shall slope
upward from the edge of the runway one foot vertically for each 20 feet of
distance horizontally.
      AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest elevation of the airport runway which for
zoning purposes shall be considered the elevation of every point on the runway.
         (a)   Two hundred fifty feet, centered on the runway centerline for
runways limited to use by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and less;
         (b)   Five hundred feet, centered on the runway centerline for all
other runways.
      AIRPORT HORIZONTAL SURFACE. The airport horizontal surface is an
imaginary horizontal surface bounded by a radius of 5,000 feet measured from
all points on the runway centerline between the ends of the runways. The
airport horizontal surface is at a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation.
      AIRPORT RUNWAY. For all runways, the width for zoning purposes shall be
at least:
      AIRPORT TRANSITIONAL SURFACES.  The airport transitional surfaces are
imaginary surfaces on each side of the runway. They slope upward and outward
seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of the
runway width and at the same elevation as the runway and the approach surfaces
and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation.
   (E)   Uses and structures prohibited in the AP District.
      (1)   No use shall be conducted within the AP District in such a manner
as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and other lights, result in glare in the
eyes of pilots, impair visibility, or in any way create a hazard or endanger
the landing, take off or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
      (2)   No structure or tree shall be erected, altered, or allowed to grow
so as to penetrate the airport approach, horizontal, or transitional surfaces.
   (F)   Helicopters and heliports. Helicopters may use an approved airport in
the AP District. Heliports for the exclusive use of helicopters may be
permitted in the AP District, provided the facility meets the design criteria
of Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulation, U.S. Department of
Transportation, as amended.
   (G)   Establishment of AP Districts. AP Districts shall only be established
or modified by the Board of Supervisors as a map amendment to this chapter as
provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.163 CHESAPEAKE/ATLANTIC PRESERVATION AREAS (CAP).
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and referenced as the Chesapeake /
Atlantic Preservation Areas (CAP) of Northampton County.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean, along with
their tributaries, is one of the most important and productive estuarine
systems in the world, providing economic and social benefits to the citizens of
Northampton County and the Commonwealth of Virginia. The health of the
Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean is vital to maintaining Northampton County's
economy and the welfare of its citizens.
   The Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean waters have been degraded
significantly by many sources of pollution, including nonpoint source pollution
from land uses and development. Existing high quality waters are worthy of
protection from degradation to guard against further pollution. Certain lands
that are proximate to shorelines have intrinsic water quality value due to the
ecological and biological processes they perform. Other lands have severe
development constraints from flooding, erosion, and soil limitations. With
proper management, they offer significant ecological benefits by providing
water quality maintenance and pollution control, as well as flood and shoreline
erosion control. These lands together, designated by the Northampton County
Board of Supervisors as Chesapeake / Atlantic Preservation Areas (hereinafter
CAP), need to be protected from destruction and damage in order to protect the
quality of water in the Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean and consequently the
quality of life in Northampton County and the Commonwealth of Virginia.
   (C)   Purpose and intent. This chapter is enacted to implement the
requirements of VA Code § 62.1-44.15:67 et seq. The intent of the Board of
Supervisors and the purpose of the CAP is to:
      (1)   Protect existing high quality state waters;
      (2)   Protect and restore all other state waters to a condition or
quality that will permit all reasonable public uses and will support the
propagation and growth of all aquatic life, including game fish, which might
reasonably be expected to inhabit them;
      (3)   Safeguard the clean waters of the Commonwealth from pollution;
      (4)   Prevent any increase in pollution;
      (5)   Reduce existing pollution;
      (6)   Promote water resource conservation in order to provide for the
health, safety, and welfare of the present and future citizens of Northampton
County; and
      (7)   Promote water quality because of its positive impacts upon the
health of Northampton County's citizens and economy.
      (8)   The CAP shall be in addition to and shall overlay all other zoning
districts where they are applied so that any parcel of land lying in the CAP
shall also lie in one or more of the other zoning districts provided for by the
Zoning Code.
   (D)   Areas of Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all lands
identified in the CAP's as designated by the Board of Supervisors and shown on
the general CAP map.
      (1)   The Resource Protection Area (RPA) includes:
         (a)   Tidal wetlands; (see Appendix A);
         (b)   Water bodies with perennial flow;
         (c)   Non-tidal wetlands connected by surface flow and contiguous to
tidal wetlands;
         (d)   Non-tidal wetlands connected by surface flow and contiguous to
water bodies with perennial flow;
         (e)   Tidal shores and beaches;
         (f)   Coastal primary sand dunes, including beaches (see Appendix B);
and
         (g)   A 100-foot vegetated buffer area located adjacent to and
landward of the components listed in the subsections (D)(1)(a)-(f) above and
along both sides of any water body with perennial flow.
            i.   The buffer is an area located adjacent to and landward of the
components listed in the subsections above and along both sides of any water
body with perennial flow.
            ii.   To minimize the adverse effects of human activities on the
other components of Resource Protection Areas, state waters, and aquatic life,
a 100-foot buffer area of vegetation that is effective in retarding runoff,
preventing erosion, and filtering nonpoint source pollution from runoff shall
be maintained if present and established where it does not exist.
            iii.   The full buffer area shall be designated as the landward
component of the RPA.
            iv.   The 100-foot buffer area shall be deemed to achieve a 75%
reduction of sediments and a 40% reduction of nutrients.
      (2)   The Resource Management Area (RMA) is composed of all land in the
Northampton County which is not designated as an RPA.
      (3)   The CAP map shows the general location of RPAs and should be
consulted by persons contemplating activities within Northampton County prior
to engaging in a regulated activity.
      (4)   Areas designated as redevelopment areas shall comply with all
erosion and sediment control requirements and the performance standards for
redevelopment in NCC §
154.2.163(M).
   (E) Use Regulations. Permitted uses, special permit uses, accessory uses,
and special requirements shall be as established by the underlying zoning
district, unless modified by the requirements set forth herein.
   (F) Lot Size. Lot size shall be subject to the requirements of the
underlying zoning district(s), provided that any lot shall have sufficient area
outside the RPA to accommodate an intended development, in accordance with the
performance standards in NCC §
154.2.163(M), when such development is not otherwise allowed in the RPA.
   (G)   Conflict with Other Regulations. In any case where the requirements of
this chapter conflict with any other provision of the Northampton County Zoning
Code and / or other regulations or existing state or federal regulations,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall apply.
   (H)   Interpretation of Resource Protection Area Boundaries. Delineation by
the applicant. The site-specific boundaries of the RPA shall be delineated by
the applicant through the performance of an environmental site assessment,
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator and in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163, Areas of Applicability et seq., and NCC §
154.2.163(N). The CAP map and the National Wetlands Inventory Maps may be used
as a guide to the general location of RPAs.
      (1)   Delineation by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator,
when requested by an applicant wishing to construct a single-family residence,
may waive the requirement for an environmental site assessment and perform the
RPA delineation. The Zoning Administrator may use hydrology, soils, plant
species, and other data, and consult other appropriate resources as needed to
perform the delineation.
      (2)   Where a conflict arises over delineation. Where the applicant has
provided a site-specific delineation of the RPA, the Zoning Administrator will
verify the accuracy of the boundary delineation. In determining the site-
specific RPA boundary, the Zoning Administrator may make adjustments to the
applicant's boundary delineation, in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163(N). In the event the adjusted boundary delineation is contested by
the applicant, the applicant may seek relief pursuant to the provisions of NCC
§
154.2.163(N)(8) and NCC §
154.2.022 and NCC §
154.2.225, et seq.
   (I)   Encroachments into the RPA.
      (1)   General
         (a)   A water quality impact assessment as described in NCC §
154.2.163(O) shall be required for any proposed land disturbance, development
or redevelopment within RPAs and for any development within RMAs when required
by the Zoning Administrator because of the unique characteristics of the site
or intensity of development.
         (b)   Any development or redevelopment 2,500 square feet or greater of
land disturbance shall require the approval of a plan of development prior to
any clearing or grading of the site or the issuance of any building permit.
         (c)   Any encroachments into the RPAs shall be mitigated by the
appropriate use of best management practices and / or mitigation planting as
described in NCC §
154.2.163(M).
         (d)   Approvable encroachments into the RPA are: buffer area
maintenance, water-dependent facilities, roads, or driveway crossings
satisfying the conditions set forth in NCC §
154.2.163(I)(2), (3) and (4) flood control or stormwater management facilities
satisfying the conditions set forth in NCC §
154.2.163(I)(5) redevelopment, or development uses provided for through a
waiver, exception, or exemption.
         (e)   If an encroachment is approved through the issuance of an
administrative waiver by the Zoning Administrator, at the time the waiver is
granted, written notification shall be sent to adjacent property owners
advising them of the determination and the appeal process.
      (2)   Vegetation and Paths. In order to maintain the functional value of
the buffer area, indigenous vegetation may be removed, subject to approval by
the Zoning Administrator, only to provide for reasonable sight lines, access
paths, general woodlot management, and best management practices including
those that prevent upland erosion and concentrated flows of stormwater. The
following encroachments into the buffer area are allowed:
         (a)   As described in the Riparian Buffers Modification & Mitigation
Guidance Manual, see Appendix C link 9, trees may be pruned or removed as
necessary to provide for sight lines and vistas, subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator, provided that where removed, they shall be replaced with
other vegetation that is equally effective in retarding runoff, preventing
erosion, and filtering nonpoint source pollution from runoff;
         (b)   Any path, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator, shall
be constructed and surfaced so as to effectively control erosion;
         (c)   Dead, diseased, or dying trees or shrubbery and noxious weeds
(such as Johnson grass, kudzu, and multiflora rose) may be removed and thinning
of trees allowed, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator, pursuant to
sound horticulture practices; and
         (d)   For shoreline erosion control projects, trees and woody
vegetation may be removed, necessary control techniques employed, and
appropriate vegetation established to protect or stabilize the shoreline in
accordance with the best available technical advice and applicable permit
conditions or requirement, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Water dependent facilities. A new or expanded water-dependent
facility may be allowed provided that the following criteria are met:
         (a)   It does not conflict with the county's Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   It complies with the performance criteria set forth in NCC §
154.2.163(M);
         (c)   Any non-water-dependent component is located outside of the RPA;
and
         (d)   Access to the water-dependent facility will be provided with the
minimum disturbance necessary. Where practicable, a single point of access will
be provided.
      (4)   Roads and driveways. Roads and driveways not exempt under NCC §
154.2.163(J) may be constructed in or across RPAs if each of the following
conditions is met:
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator makes a finding that there are no
reasonable alternatives to aligning the road or driveway in or across the RPA;
         (b)   The alignment and design of the road or driveway minimizes both
encroachment into the RPA and adverse impacts on water quality;
         (c)   The design and construction of the road or driveway satisfy all
applicable criteria of this chapter, including submission of a water quality
impact assessment according to NCC §
154.2.163(O);
         (d)   Any applicable permit or approval from the Northampton County
Wetlands Board, the Virginia Marine Resources Commission, or the U. S. Army
Corps of Engineers is obtained;
         (e)   The plan for the proposed road or driveway in or across the RPA
is reviewed in coordination with site plan, subdivision, and/or plan of
development approvals.
      (5)   Flood control and stormwater management facilities that drain or
treat water from multiple development projects or from a significant portion of
a watershed may be allowed in RPAs if the following conditions are met. A best
management practice that collects and treats runoff from only an individual lot
or some portion of a lot may not be located within an RPA.
         (a)   The location of the facility within the RPA has been
demonstrated to be the optimum location;
         (b)   The size of the facility is the minimum necessary to provide
necessary flood control or stormwater management, or both;
         (c)   The facility must be consistent with a comprehensive stormwater
management plan developed and approved in accordance with the Virginia
Stormwater Management Program;
         (d)   All applicable permits for construction in state or federal
waters must be obtained from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality, and the Virginia Marine Resources
Commission;
         (e)   Any required permit is obtained from the Northampton County
Wetlands Board and a site plan is approved;
         (f)   Routine maintenance shall be performed on such facilities to
assure that they continue to function as designed.
      (6)   Mitigation. In order to mitigate the effects of the buffer
encroachment, other measures such as French drains, dry wells, and storage of
construction materials outside the buffer must be implemented unless the Zoning
Administrator determines that such measures are inappropriate or unnecessary
due to the specific conditions of the site or the nature of the project.
      (7)   Redevelopment may be permitted only if there is no increase in the
amount of impervious cover and no further encroachment within the RPA.
Redevelopment shall conform to the stormwater management requirements outlined
under NCC §
154.2.163(N)(4) and erosion and sediment control requirements outlined under
NCC §
154.2.163(N)(5).
      (8)   Administrative Waiver Process.  Development may occur upon the
approval of an administrative waiver process when the following conditions
exist.
         (a)   An applicant seeks to expand nonconforming uses and structures.
For the purposes of the CAP, this shall be defined as the lawful use of a
building or structure which existed on October 1, 1989, or which exists at the
time of any amendment to this chapter, and which is not in conformity with the
provisions of the CAP.
         (b)   The application of the buffer area would result in the loss of
buildable area on a lot or parcel recorded prior to October 1, 1989.
         (c)   No waiver shall be granted unless the following conditions and
findings are met:
            1.    Encroachments into the buffer areas shall be the minimum
necessary to achieve a reasonable buildable area for a principal structure and
necessary utilities;
            2.   The encroachment may not extend into the seaward 50 feet of
the buffer area;
            3.   There will be no increase in nonpoint source pollution load;
            4.   Where practicable, a vegetated area that will maximize water
quality protection, mitigate the effects of the buffer encroachment, and is
equal to the area of encroachment into the buffer area shall be established
elsewhere on the lot or parcel;
            5.   Any development or land disturbance exceeding an area of 2,500
square feet complies with all erosion and sediment control requirements of this
chapter.
         (d)   A request for an administrative waiver to the requirements of
this chapter shall be made in writing to the Zoning Administrator. It shall
identify the impacts of the proposed waiver on water quality and on lands
within the RPA through the performance of a water quality impact assessment
which complies with the provisions of NCC §
154.2.163(O).
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the request for an
administrative waiver and the water quality impact assessment and may grant the
waiver with such conditions and safeguards as deemed necessary to further the
purpose and intent of this chapter, but only if the Zoning Administrator finds:
            1.   Granting the waiver will not confer upon the applicant any
special privileges that are denied by this chapter to other property owners in
the CAP;
            2.   The waiver request is not based upon conditions or
circumstances that are self-created or self-imposed, nor does the request arise
from conditions or circumstances either permitted or non-conforming that are
related to adjacent parcels;
            3.   The waiver request is the minimum necessary to afford relief;
            4.   The waiver request will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter, and not injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare and is not of substantial detriment to water
quality;
            5.   Reasonable and appropriate conditions are imposed which will
prevent the waiver request from causing a degradation of water quality;
            6.   In no case shall this provision apply to accessory structures;
and
            7.   The waiver is permitted by NCC §
154.2.245 et seq.
         (f)   An administrative waiver request shall be made to and upon forms
furnished by the Zoning Administrator and shall include, for the purpose of
proper enforcement of this chapter, the following information:
            i.   Name and address of applicant and property owner;
            ii.   Legal description of the property and type of proposed use
and development;
            iii.   A sketch of the dimensions of the lot or parcel, location of
buildings and proposed additions relative to the lot lines, and boundary of the
RPA;
               Location and description of any existing private water supply or
sewage system; and
            iv.   Justification for the waiver request, including how the
criteria in NCC §
154.2.163(I)(8)(e) are satisfied by the waiver request;
            v.   A waiver shall become null and void 12 months from the date
issued if no substantial work has commenced;
            vi.   If the Zoning Administrator cannot make the required findings
or refuses to grant the waiver, the Zoning Administrator shall return the
request for a waiver together with the water quality impact assessment and the
written findings and rationale for the decision to the applicant, with a copy
to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The applicant may then apply to the Board of
Zoning Appeals for an exception.
      (9)   Exceptions by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Persons aggrieved by the denial of a waiver by the Zoning
Administrator may appeal for an exception from the Board of Zoning Appeals
("BZA").
         (b)   A request for an exception to the requirements of this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Board of Zoning Appeals on forms furnished by
the Zoning Administrator and shall include the information specified in NCC §
154.2.163(I)(8)(f). The request shall identify the impacts of the proposed
exception on water quality and on lands within the RPA through the performance
of a water quality impact assessment which complies with the provisions of NCC.
         (c)   After notice and public hearing, the BZA shall review the
request for an exception and the water quality impact assessment and may grant
the exception with such conditions and safeguards as deemed necessary to
further the purpose and intent of this chapter, if the BZA finds:
            i.   The exception request is the minimum to afford relief, and any
encroachments into the buffer areas shall be the minimum necessary to achieve a
reasonable buildable area for a principal structure and necessary utilities;
            ii.   There will be no increase in nonpoint source pollution load;
            iii.   Where practicable, a vegetated area that will maximize water
quality protection, mitigate the effects of the buffer encroachment, and is
equal to the area of encroachment into the buffer area shall be established
elsewhere on the lot or parcel;
            iv.   Any development or land disturbance exceeding an area of
2,500 square feet complies with all erosion and sediment control requirements
of this chapter;
            v.   Granting the exception will not confer upon the applicant any
special privileges that are denied by this chapter to other property owners in
the CAP;
            vi.   The exception request is not based upon conditions or
circumstances that are self-created or self-imposed, nor does the request arise
from conditions or circumstances either permitted or non-conforming that are
related to adjacent parcels;
            vii.   The exception request will be in harmony with the purpose
and intent of the CAP, and not injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare and is not of substantial detriment to water
quality;
            viii.   Reasonable and appropriate conditions are imposed which
will prevent the exception request from causing a degradation of water quality;
            ix.   In no case shall this provision apply to accessory
structures; and
            x.   The waiver is permitted by NCC §
154.2.245 et seq.
         (d)   An exception shall become null and void 12 months from the date
issued if no substantial work has commenced.
         (e)   An exception may be appealed in the same manner as a variance.
   (J)   Exemptions for Utilities, Railroads and Public Roads.  
      (1)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of electric, natural
gas, fiber optic, and telephone lines, railroads, and public roads and their
appurtenant structures in accordance with regulations promulgated pursuant to
the Erosion and Sediment Control Law (VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:51 et seq.) and the
Stormwater Management Act (VA Code §§ 62.1-44.15:24 et seq.) and an erosion and
sediment control plan and a stormwater management plan approved by the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality, or local water quality protection criteria
at least as stringent as the above state requirements are deemed to comply with
this chapter.
      (2)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of water, sewer,
natural gas, underground telecommunications and cable television lines owned,
permitted or both by Northampton County or a regional service authority shall
be exempt from this chapter provided that:
         (a)   To the degree possible, the location of such utilities and
facilities shall be outside RPAs;
         (b)   No more land shall be disturbed than is necessary to provide for
the proposed utility installation;
         (c)   All construction, installation, and maintenance of such
utilities and facilities shall be in compliance with all applicable state and
federal requirements and permits and designed and conducted in a manner that
protects water quality; and
         (d)   Any land disturbance exceeding an area of 2,500 square feet
complies with all Northampton County erosion and sediment control requirements.
      (3)   The exemption of public roads is further conditioned on the road
alignment and design being optimized, consistent with all applicable
requirements, to prevent or otherwise minimize the encroachment in the RPA and
to minimize the adverse effects on water quality.
   (K)   Exemption for Agriculture and Silviculture.
      (1)   Exemptions for agriculture. On agricultural lands, the agricultural
buffer area shall be managed to prevent concentrated flows of surface water
from breaching the buffer area, and appropriate measures may be taken to
prevent noxious weeds from invading the buffer area. Agricultural activities
may encroach into the buffer area as follows:
         (a)   Agricultural activities may encroach into the landward 50 feet
of the 100-foot buffer area when at least one agricultural best management
practice, which, in the opinion of the Eastern Shore Soil and Water
Conservation District Board, addresses the site's more predominant water
quality issue (erosion control or nutrient management), is being implemented on
the adjacent land, provided that the combination of the undisturbed buffer area
and the best management practice achieves water quality protection, pollutant
removal, and water resource conservation at least the equivalent of the 100-
foot-wide buffer area. If nutrient management is identified as the predominant
water quality issue on the site, a nutrient management plan, including soil
test, must be developed consistent with the "Virginia Nutrient Management
Training and Certification Regulations" (4 VAC 5-15 et seq.), administered by
the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation;
         (b)   Agricultural activities may encroach into the landward 75 feet
of the 100-foot wide buffer area when agricultural best management practices
which address erosion control, nutrient management, and pest chemical control
are being implemented on the adjacent land. The erosion control practices must
prevent erosion from exceeding the soil loss tolerance level, referred to as
"T," as defined in the National Soil Survey Handbook of November 1996 in the
Field Office Technical Guide of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural
Resource Conservation Service. A nutrient management plan, including soil test,
must be developed consistent with the Virginia Nutrient Management Training and
Certification Regulations (4 VAC 5-15 et seq.), administered by the Virginia
Department of Conservation and Recreation. In conjunction with the remaining
buffer area, this collection of best management practices shall be presumed to
achieve water quality protection at least the equivalent of that provided by
the 100-foot-wide buffer area; and
         (c)   The buffer area is not required to be designated adjacent to
agricultural drainage ditches if the adjacent agricultural land has in place at
least one best management practice considered by the Eastern Shore Soil and
Water Conservation District to address the more predominant water quality issue
on the adjacent land, either erosion control or nutrient management.
         (d)   When agricultural uses within the buffer area cease and the
lands are proposed to be converted to other uses, the full 100-foot-wide buffer
area shall be reestablished. In reestablishing the buffer, management measures
shall be undertaken to provide woody vegetation that assures the buffer
functions are maintained or established.
      (2)   Exemptions for silvicultural activities.  
         (a)   Silvicultural activities are exempt from the requirements of
this chapter provided that silvicultural operations adhere to water quality
protection procedures prescribed by the Virginia Department of Forestry in the
January 1997 edition of Best Management Practices for Forestry Operations
[Technical Guide].
         (b)   When silvicultural uses within the buffer area cease and the
lands are proposed to be converted to other uses, the full 100-foot-wide buffer
area shall be reestablished. In reestablishing the buffer, management measures
shall be undertaken to provide woody vegetation that assures the buffer
functions are maintained or established.
   (L)   Exemptions in Resource Protection Areas. The following uses in RPAs
may be exempted: water wells; passive recreation facilities such as boardwalks,
trails, and pathways; and historic preservation and archaeological activities,
provided that it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator that:
      (1)   Any required permits, except those to which this exemption
specifically applies, shall have been issued;
      (2)   Sufficient and reasonable proof is submitted that the intended use
will not deteriorate water quality;
      (3)   The intended use does not conflict with nearby planned or approved
uses; and
      (4)   Any land disturbance exceeding an area of 2,500 square feet shall
comply with all Northampton County erosion and sediment control requirements.
   (M)   Performance Standards.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The performance standards establish the means
to minimize erosion and sedimentation potential, reduce land application of
nutrients and toxins, and maximize rainwater infiltration. Natural ground
cover, especially woody vegetation, is most effective in holding soil in place
and preventing site erosion. Indigenous vegetation, with its adaptability to
local conditions without the use of harmful fertilizers or pesticides, filters
storm-water runoff. Minimizing impervious cover enhances rainwater infiltration
and effectively reduces storm water runoff potential. The purpose and intent of
these requirements are also to implement the following objectives: prevent a
net increase in nonpoint source pollution from new development; achieve a 10%
reduction in nonpoint source pollution from redevelopment; and achieve a 40%
reduction in nonpoint source pollution from agricultural uses.
      (2)   General performance standards for development and redevelopment.
         (a)   Land disturbance shall be limited to the area necessary to
provide for the proposed use or development.
            i.   In accordance with an approved site plan, the limits of land
disturbance, including clearing or grading, shall be defined by the
construction footprint plus up to 50 feet of open space around the primary
structure. The Zoning Administrator shall review and approve the construction
footprint through the plan of development process as required under NCC §
154.2.163(N). These limits shall be clearly shown on submitted plans and
physically marked on the development site.
            ii.   Ingress and egress during construction shall be limited to
one access point, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Indigenous vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
practicable consistent with the use and development proposed and in accordance
with the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook.
            i.   Existing trees over two inches in diameter at breast height
(DBH) shall be preserved outside the construction footprint in the RMA; this
provision does not apply to any component of the RPA.
            ii.   Diseased trees or trees weakened by age, storm, fire, or
other injury may be removed as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
            iii.   Site clearing for construction activities shall be allowed
only as approved by the Zoning Administrator through the plan of development
review process outlined under NCC §
154.2.163(N).
            iv.   Prior to clearing or grading, suitable protective barriers,
such as safety fencing, shall be erected five feet outside of the drip line of
any tree or stand of trees to be preserved. These protective barriers shall
remain so erected throughout all phases of construction. The storage of
equipment, materials, debris, or fill shall not be allowed within the area
protected by the barrier.
         (c)   Land development shall minimize impervious cover to promote
infiltration of storm-water into the ground consistent with the proposed use or
development.
            i.   Grid and modular pavements may be used for any required
parking area, alley, or other low traffic driveway, unless otherwise approved
by the Zoning Administrator.
            ii.   Parking space size. See NCC §
154.2.205 et seq.
            iii.   Water retention ponds shall be used where feasible.
         (d)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or any land
disturbing activity 2,500 square feet or greater, shall comply with the
requirements of NCC §
153.01, et seq., Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance.
         (e)   All development and redevelopment 2,500 square feet or greater
of land disturbance shall be subject to a plan of development process,
including the approval of a site plan in accordance with the provisions of NCC
§
154.2.045 or a subdivision plat in accordance with the Northampton County
Subdivision Ordinance, NCC §
156.001 et seq.  However, the construction of (i) single-family homes or (ii)
farm buildings or structures on a parcel of land with a total impervious cover
percentage, including the impervious cover from the farm building or structure
to be constructed, of less than 5% will be subject to a simplified plan of
development process, pursuant to NCC §
154.2.163(N).
         (f)   All on-site sewage disposal systems not requiring a VPDES permit
shall be pumped out at least once every five years, unless an exception is
granted by the Zoning Administrator.
            i.   The following pump-out frequency (stated in years) standards
will be considered upon request by a landowner and may apply if the Zoning
Administrator is satisfied, based upon information furnished by the landowner,
that the household size, occupancy per year, and septic tank size warrant an
exception as described in NCC §
154.2.163(N)(2)(f).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2152.jpg]
 
            ii.   Septic Pump-Out Exception Policy. While the above regulation
was adopted in compliance with requirements of the Chesapeake Bay Preservation
Area Designation and Management Regulations (9 VAC 25-830 et seq.), the county
and the Commonwealth of Virginia recognize that under some circumstances the
requirement may impose an undue burden and hardship. Therefore, the county may
grant administrative exceptions to this requirement according to the following
guidelines.
            iii.   Each request for an exception will be reviewed on a case-by-
case basis.
            iv.   At the time such request is made, the property owner(s) shall
provide evidence that the septic system was pumped or installed within the
previous five years.
            v.   When an exception is granted, subsequent pump-outs will be
required according to the chart below. However, each exception will be reviewed
after five-year intervals, and at the end of such five-year interval, property
owners will be notified and requested to verify occupancy status.
            vi.   The county reserves the right to check, during the five-year
interval, properties that have been granted pump-out exceptions for building
permit activities or changes in property ownership that may indicate a change
in status of the septic system.
         (g)   A reserve sewage disposal site with a capacity at least equal to
that of the primary sewage disposal site shall be provided. This requirement
shall not apply to any lot or parcel recorded prior to October 1, 1989, if such
lot or parcel is not sufficient in capacity to accommodate a reserve sewage
disposal site, as determined by the local Health Department. Building or
construction of any impervious surface shall be prohibited on the area of all
sewage disposal sites or on an on-site sewage treatment system which operates
under a permit issued by the State Water Control Board, until the structure is
served by public sewer.
         (h)   For any development or redevelopment, storm-water runoff shall
be controlled by the use of best management practices consistent with the water
quality protection provisions of the Virginia Stormwater Management Regulations
(9 VAC 25-870 et seq.). This reference needs to be checked against the new
guidance document language.
         (i)   Prior to initiating grading or other on-site activities on any
portion of a lot or parcel, all wetlands permits required by federal, state,
and local laws and regulations shall be obtained and evidence of such submitted
to the Zoning Administrator, in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163(N).
         (j)   If a perennial stream is shown on the county's mapping on any
portion of a lot or parcel, a perennial stream assessment must be submitted and
accepted prior to approval of a plan of development.
         (k)   Land upon which agricultural activities are being conducted
shall have a soil and water quality conservation assessment. Such assessments
shall evaluate the effectiveness of existing practices pertaining to soil
erosion and sediment control, nutrient management and management of pesticides,
and where necessary, results in a plan that outlines additional practices
needed to ensure that water quality protection is accomplished consistent with
this chapter.
         (l)   When expansion of nonconforming uses and structures would result
in an encroachment into the buffer area which lawfully existed on October 1,
1989, or which exists at the time of any amendment to this chapter,
encroachment may be only permitted through an administrative waiver or formal
exception in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163(I)(8)(e).
         (m)   When the application of the buffer areas would result in the
loss of a buildable area on a lot or parcel recorded prior to October 1, 1989,
encroachment into the buffer area may only be permitted through an
administrative waiver or formal exception in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163(I).
         (n)   The buffer shall be maintained in accordance with NCC §
154.2.163(I)(2).
      (3)   Required mitigation planting.  Establishment or re-establishment of
the buffer is addressed by this subsection. Establishment or re-establishment
of the buffer will be required for any encroachment into the buffer for any
reason, including but not limited to, when a change of use occurs and when a
natural buffer does not exist.
         (a)   Vegetation replacement rates.
 
VEGETATION REMOVED       PREFERRED REPLACEMENT      ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATIVE
                                                    VEGETATION
                                                    OR 2 large shrubs @ 3'-4'
1 tree or sapling < 2-1/ 1 tree @ equal caliper or  greater OR 10 small shrubs
2" caliper                                          or woody groundcover* @
                                                    15"-18"
                                                    OR 75% trees @ 2" and 25%
                                                    large shrubs @ 3'-4' per
                         1 tree @ 2" caliper, or 1  every 4" caliper of tree
                         evergreen tree @ 6' min    removed. (Ex: a 16" ca.
                         ht., per every 4" caliper  tree removed would require
1 tree > 2-1/2" caliper  of tree 3:1 ratio (ex: a   3 trees and 1 large shrub)
                         12" cal. tree would        OR 10 small shrubs or
                         require 3 trees to replace woody groundcover @ 15"-
                         it)                        18" per 4' ca. of tree
                                                    removed. (Ex.: an 8' ca.
                                                    tree removed requires 20
                                                    small shrubs.)
1 large shrub            1 large shrub @ 3'-4'      OR 5 small shrubs or woody
                                                    groundcover @ 15"-18"
*Woody groundcover is considered to be a woody, spreading shrub that remains
close to the ground, to 18" high, such as a shore juniper, juniperus conferta.
Vines may not be considered "woody groundcover" for the purpose of vegetation
replacement
 
         (b)   Restoration / establishment Table A.
            1.   Definitions.
               a.    CANOPY TREE. A tree that reaches 35 feet in height or
larger when mature.
               b.    LARGE SHRUB. A shrub that reaches ten feet of height or
greater at maturity.
               c.    SMALL SHRUB. A woody plant that can reach up to ten feet
of height at maturity.
               d.    UNDERSTORY TREE. A tree that matures to a height of 12
feet to 35 feet.
            2.   One-quarter acre or less of buffer (up to 10,890 square feet):
               a.   For every 400 square- foot unit (20 feet x 20 feet) or
fraction thereof plant: one canopy tree at one and one-half to two inches
caliper or large evergreen at six feet; and two understory trees at three-
quarter inch to one and one- half inches caliper or evergreen at four feet or
one understory tree and two large shrubs at three feet to four feet; and three
small shrubs or woody groundcover at 15 inches to 18 inches.
               b.    Example: A 100-foot wide lot x 100-foot wide buffer is
10,000 square feet. Divide by 400 square feet (20 feet x 20 feet unit) to get:
25 units.
 
Units x    Plant/Unit         Number of Plants
25 units x 1 canopy tree      25 canopy trees
          2 understory trees 50 understory trees
          3 small shrubs     75 small shrubs
                            150 plants
 
               c.    Restoration/establishment Table B. Greater than one-
quarter acre of buffer (more than 10,890 square feet.)
                  i.    Plant at the same rate as for one-quarter acre or less.
                  ii.    The waterside 50% of the buffer (from the waterline
inland for the first 50 feet): For every 400 square-foot unit (20 feet x 20
feet) or fraction thereof plant: one canopy tree at one and one-half inches to
two inches caliper or large evergreen at six feet; and two understory trees at
three-quarter inch to one and one-half inches caliper or evergreen at four feet
or one understory tree and two large shrubs at three feet to four feet; and
three small shrubs or woody groundcover at 15 inches to 18 inches; and
                  iii.    The landward 50% of buffer (from 50 feet inland to
100 feet inland), either plant:
                     a.   Bare root seedlings or whips at 1,210 stems per acre,
approximately six feet x six feet on center (minimum survival required after
two growing seasons: 600 plants), or
                     b.   Container grown seedling tubes at 700 per acre
approximately eight feet x eight feet on center (minimum survival required
after two growing seasons: 490 plants).
   (N)   Plan of development process. Any development or redevelopment
exceeding 2,500 square feet of land disturbance shall be accomplished through
the approval of a plan of development prior to any clearing or grading of the
site or the issuance of any building permit, to assure compliance with all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Required information. In addition to the requirements of this
chapter or the requirements of NCC
Chapter 156, the plan of development process shall consist of the plans and
studies identified below. These required plans and studies may be coordinated
or combined, as deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator may determine that some of the information otherwise required is
unnecessary due to the scope and nature of the proposed development. The
following plans or studies shall be submitted, unless otherwise provided for:
         (a)   A site plan in accordance with the provisions of NCC §
154.2.045, a subdivision plat in accordance with the provisions NCC
Chapter 156, or, for a single-family dwelling unit, a plat showing the proposed
house location and any other improvements;
         (b)   An environmental site assessment;
         (c)   A landscaping plan;
         (d)   A stormwater management plan except as provided for in §
154.2.163(N)(4);
         (e)   An erosion and sediment control plan in accordance with the
provisions of the Northampton County Soil and Sediment Control Ordinance; and
         (f)   A water quality impact assessment when one is required.
      (2)   Environmental site assessment. An environmental site assessment
shall be submitted in conjunction with a request for preliminary site plan or
preliminary subdivision plan approval.
         (a)   The environmental site assessment must be drawn to scale with a
narrative and clearly delineate the following environmental features:
            i.   Tidal wetlands;
            ii.   Water bodies with perennial flow;
            iii.   Non-tidal wetland connected by surface flow and contiguous
to tidal wetlands;
            iv.   Non-tidal wetlands connected by surface flow and contiguous
to water bodies with perennial;
            v.   Tidal shores and beaches;
            vi.   Primary sand dunes, including beaches;
            vii.   A 100-foot buffer area located adjacent to and landward of
the components listed in items 1 through 4 above, and along both sides of any
water body with perennial flow; and
            viii.   Other sensitive environmental features as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Wetlands delineations shall be performed consistent with the
procedures specified in the Federal Manual for Identifying and Delineating
Jurisdictional Wetlands, 1989.
         (c)   A perennial stream assessment determining water bodies with
perennial flow be undertaken using a scientifically valid system of in-field
indicators such as those described in the Chesapeake Bay Local Assistance
guidance document entitled Determination of Water Bodies with Perennial Flow.
         (d)   The environmental site assessment shall delineate the site-
specific geographic extent of the RPA as required under NCC §
154.2.163(D); and
         (e)   The environmental site assessment shall be drawn at the same
scale as the preliminary site plan or subdivision plat, and shall be certified
as complete and accurate by a professional engineer or a certified land
surveyor licensed in Virginia. This requirement may be waived by the Zoning
Administrator when the proposed use or development would result in less than
5,000 square feet of disturbed area.
      (3)   Landscaping plan. A landscaping plan or landscaping element shall
be required in conjunction with a request for site plan approval or as part of
subdivision plat approval. No clearing or grading of any lot or parcel shall be
permitted without an approved landscaping plan when required.
         (a)   Contents of the landscaping plan.
            i.   The landscaping plan shall be drawn to scale and clearly
delineate the location, size, and description of existing and proposed plant
material. All existing trees on the site two inches or greater DBH shall be
shown on the landscaping plan. Where there are groups of trees, stands may be
outlined instead. The specific number of trees two inches or greater DBH to be
preserved outside of the construction footprint shall be indicated on the plan.
Trees to be removed to create a desired construction footprint shall be clearly
delineated on the landscaping plan.
            ii.   Any required RPA buffer area shall be clearly delineated and
any plant material to be added to establish or supplement the buffer area, as
required by this chapter, shall be shown on the landscaping plan.
            iii.   Within the RPA buffer area, trees and other woody vegetation
to be removed for sight lines, vistas, access paths, and best management
practices, as provided for in this chapter, shall be shown on the plan.
Vegetation required by this chapter to replace any existing trees or other
woody vegetation within the buffer area shall also be shown on the landscaping
plan.
            iv.   Trees or other woody vegetation to be removed for shoreline
stabilization projects and any replacement vegetation required by this chapter
shall be shown on the landscaping plan.
            v.   The plan shall depict grade changes or other work adjacent to
trees which would affect them adversely. Specifications shall be provided as to
how grade, drainage, and aeration would be maintained around trees to be
preserved.
            vi.   The landscaping plan will include specifications for the
protection of existing trees during clearing, grading, and all phases of
construction.
            vii.   If the proposed development is a change in use from
agricultural or silvicultural to some other use, the plan must demonstrate the
reestablishment of woody vegetation in the buffer area as required is
subsection (3) above.
         (b)   Plant specifications.
            i.   All plant materials necessary to supplement the buffer area or
vegetated areas outside the construction footprint shall be installed according
to standard planting practices and procedures.
            ii.   All supplementary or replacement plant materials shall be
living and in a healthy condition. Plant materials shall conform to the
standards of the most recent edition of the American Standard for Nursery
Stock, published by the American Association of Nurserymen.
            iii.   Where areas to be preserved, as designated on an approved
landscaping plan, are encroached a mitigation plan in compliance with
subsection (3) above will be required when the encroachment is within the
buffer area. When the encroachment is outside the buffer area replacement of
existing trees and other vegetation will be achieved at a ratio of three
planted trees or shrubs to one removed. Replacement trees shall be a minimum
two-inch caliper at the time of planting and shrubs shall be a minimum of
three-gallon container, measured in accordance with standards provided in the
most recent edition of American Standard for Nursery Stock published by the
American Nursery and Landscape Association.
            iv.   Use of native or indigenous species is required.
         (c)   Maintenance.
            i.   The applicant shall be responsible for the maintenance and
replacement of all vegetation as may be required by the provisions of this
chapter.
            ii.   In buffer areas and areas outside the construction footprint,
plant material shall be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition
and free from refuse and debris. Unhealthy, dying, or dead plant materials
shall be replaced during the next planting season, as required by the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Stormwater management plan.  Stormwater management plan shall be
submitted as part of the plan of development process required by this chapter
and in conjunction with site plan or subdivision plat approval consistent with
the provisions of the Virginia Stormwater Program Management Regulations except
that single-family residences separately built and disturbing less than one
acre and not part of a larger plan of development or sale, including additions
or modifications to existing single-family detached residential structures
shall be exempt as long as when this development or redevelopment exceeds 16%
lot coverage, a best management practice (BMP) mitigating for the percentage
exceeding 16% shall be installed on the same lot as the development or
redevelopment. Completion of the BMP installation shall be required before the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance, letter of
completion or passing final inspection.
      (5)   Erosion and sediment control plan. An erosion and sediment control
plan shall be submitted that satisfies the requirements of this chapter and is
in accordance with the Northampton County Soil and Sediment Control Ordinance,
in conjunction with site plan or subdivision plat approval, consistent with the
provisions of the Virginia Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations.
      (6)   Final plan. Final plans for property within the CAP shall be final
plats for land to be subdivided or site plans for land not to be subdivided as
required in NCC §
154.2.045 and NCC
Chapter 156, Northampton County Subdivision Code.
         (a)   Final plans for all lands within the CAP shall include the
following additional information:
            (1)   The delineation of the Resource Protection Area boundary,
including the 100-foot buffer area;
            (2)   Plat or plan note stating that no land disturbance is allowed
in the RPA buffer area without the review and approval by the Zoning
Administrator;
            (3)   All wetlands permits required by law; and
            (4)    A maintenance agreement as deemed necessary and appropriate
by the Zoning Administrator to ensure proper maintenance of best management
practices in order to continue their functions.
         (b)   Installation and bonding requirements:
            i.   Where a plan of development requires improvements such as but
not limited to the buffer area establishment, landscaping, stormwater
management facilities or other specifications, the plan shall not be approved
until bonding / surety is provided for the completion of the improvements. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the installation of all required
improvements are completed in accordance with the approved plan.
            ii.   The cost of the improvements will be determined, to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator, by the applicant providing two
guaranteed estimates or an estimate provided by a licensed engineer.
            iii.   All required landscaping shall be installed and approved by
the first planting season following issuance of a certificate of occupancy or
the surety may be forfeited to Northampton County.
            iv.   All required stormwater management facilities or other
specifications shall be installed and approved within 18 months of project
commencement through the issuance of a land disturbance permit. Should the
applicant fail, after proper notice, to initiate, complete, or maintain
appropriate actions required by the approved plan, the surety may be forfeited
to Northampton County. Northampton County may collect from the applicant the
amount by which the reasonable cost of required actions exceeds the amount of
the surety held.
            v.   After all required actions of the approved plan have been
completed, the applicant must submit a written request for a final inspection.
If the requirements of the approved plan have been completed, such unexpended
or unobligated portion of the surety held shall be refunded to the applicant or
terminated within 60 days following the receipt of the applicant's request for
final inspection. The Zoning Administrator may require a certificate of
substantial completion from a professional engineer or Class III B Surveyor
before making a final inspection.
      (7)   Administrative responsibility.  Administration of the plan of
development process shall be in accordance with the site plan provisions of NCC
§
154.2.045 and / or NCC
Chapter 156.
      (8)   Appeals of administrative decisions regarding plans of developments
shall be as provided in NCC §
154.2.026(A) and applicable law. Appeals from BZA decisions regarding plans of
development shall be as provided in NCC §
154.2.026(B) and applicable law.
   (O)   Water Quality Impact Assessment. The purpose of the water quality
impact assessment is to:
      (1)   Identify the impacts of proposed land disturbance, redevelopment,
or development on water quality and lands within RPAs and other
environmentally-sensitive lands;
      (2)   Ensure that, where land disturbance, redevelopment, or development
does take place within RPAs and other sensitive lands, it will be located on
those portions of a site and in a manner that will be least disruptive to the
natural functions of RPAs and other sensitive lands;
      (3)   Protect individuals from investing funds for improvements proposed
for location on lands unsuited for such development because of high ground
water, erosion, or vulnerability to flood and storm damage;
      (4)   Specify mitigation which will address water quality protection.
      (5)   A water quality impact assessment is required for:
         (a)   Any proposed land disturbance, redevelopment, or development
within an RPA, including any buffer area modification or encroachment as
provided for in NCC §
154.2.108; and
         (b)   Any land disturbance, redevelopment, or development in an RMA as
deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator due to the unique characteristics
of the site or intensity of the proposed development. There shall be two levels
of water quality impact assessments: a minor assessment and a major assessment.
      (6)   Minor water quality impact assessment. A minor water quality impact
assessment pertains only to development activities within the CAP which cause
no more than 5,000 square feet of land disturbance and require any modification
of or encroachment into the landward 50 feet of the 100-foot buffer area as
permitted under this chapter. A minor assessment must demonstrate that the
undisturbed buffer area, enhanced vegetative plantings, and any required best
management practices will result in removal of no less than 75% of sediments
and 40% of nutrients from post-development stormwater runoff and will retard
runoff, prevent erosion, and filter nonpoint source pollution the equivalent of
the full undisturbed 100-foot buffer area. A minor assessment shall include a
site drawing to scale which shows the following:
         (a)   Location of the components of the RPA, including the 100-foot
buffer area;
         (b)   Location and nature of the proposed encroachment into the buffer
area, if needed, including: type of paving material; areas of clearing or
grading; location of any structures, drives, or other impervious cover; and
sewage disposal systems or reserve drainfield sites;
         (c)   Type and location of proposed best management practices to
mitigate the proposed encroachment;
         (d)   The area to be disturbed necessitated by the construction;
         (e)   Location of existing vegetation onsite, including the number and
type of trees and other vegetation to be removed in the buffer to accommodate
the encroachment or modification; and
         (f)   Re-vegetation plan that supplements the existing buffer
vegetation in a manner that provides for pollutant removal and erosion and
runoff control.
      (7)   Major water quality impact assessment. A major water quality impact
assessment shall be required for any development activities which exceed 5,000
square feet of land disturbance within the CAP and propose to modify or
encroach into the landward 50 feet of the 100-foot buffer area; propose to
disturb or encroach into any portion of the seaward 50 feet of the 100-foot
buffer area or any other component of an RPA; or are located completely in an
RMA and is deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator. The information
required in this section shall be considered a minimum, unless the Zoning
Administrator determines that some of the elements are unnecessary due to the
scope and nature of the proposed use and development of land. The following
elements shall be included in the preparation and submission of a major water
quality assessment:
         (a)   All of the information required in a minor water quality impact
assessment, as specified in subsection (6) above;
         (b)   A hydro-geological element that:
            i.   Describes the existing topography, soils, hydrology and
geology of the site and adjacent lands;
            ii.   Describes the impacts of the proposed development on
topography, soils, hydrology and geology on the site and adjacent lands;
            iii.   Indicates the following:
               (a)    Disturbance or destruction of wetlands, primary and
secondary dunes and justification for such action;
               (b)    Disruptions or reductions in the supply of water to
wetlands, streams, or other water bodies;
               (c)    Disruptions to existing hydrology including wetland and
stream circulation patterns;
               (d)    Source location and description of proposed fill
material, if applicable;
               (e)    Location of dredge material and location of dumping area
for such material, if applicable;
               (f)    Estimation of pre- and post-development pollutant loads
in runoff;
               (g)    Estimation of percent increase in impervious surface on
site and type(s) of surfacing materials used;
               (h)    Percent of site to be cleared for project;
               (i)    Anticipated duration and phasing schedule of construction
project; and
               (j)    Listing of all requisite permits from all applicable
agencies necessary to develop project; and
            iv.   Describes the proposed mitigation measures for the potential
hydro-geological impacts. Potential mitigation measures include:
               (a)    Additional proposed erosion and sediment control concepts
beyond those normally required under this chapter; these additional concepts
may include minimizing the extent of the cleared area, perimeter controls,
reduction of runoff velocities, measures to stabilize disturbed areas, schedule
and personnel for site inspection; and
               (b)    Proposed storm water management system.
               (c)   A vegetative element that:
                  i.    Identifies and delineates the location of all woody
plant material on site, including all trees two inches or greater DBH or, where
there are groups of trees, stands may be outlined;
                  ii.    Describes the impacts the development or use will have
on the existing vegetation. Information should include:
                     (a)   General limits of clearing, based on all anticipated
improvements, including buildings, drives, and utilities;
                     (b)   Clear delineation of all trees and other woody
vegetation which is proposed to be removed; and
                     (c)   Description of all plant species proposed to be
disturbed or removed; and
                  iii.    Describes the proposed measures for mitigation.
Possible mitigation measures include:
                     (a)   Proposed design plan and replanting schedule for
trees and other woody vegetation proposed to be removed for construction,
including a list of proposed plants and trees to be used;
                     (b)   Demonstration that the design of the plan will
preserve to the greatest extent possible any significant trees and vegetation
on the site and will provide maximum erosion control and overland flow benefits
from such vegetation;
                     (c)   Demonstration that indigenous plants are to be used
to the greatest extent possible; and
                     (d)   Demonstration that the revegetation plan supplements
the existing buffer vegetation in a manner that provides for pollutant removal
and erosion and runoff control.
      (8)   Submission and review requirements.
         (a)   Eight copies of all site drawings and other applicable
information as required NCC §
154.2.045 shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review.
         (b)   All information shall be completed by persons qualified to
perform the scope of work required in this section and certified by a
professional engineer or surveyor licensed in Virginia.
         (c)   A minor water quality impact assessment shall be prepared and
submitted to and reviewed by the Zoning Administrator in conjunction with NCC §
154.2.163(N).
         (d)   A major water quality impact assessment shall be prepared and
submitted to and reviewed by the Zoning Administrator in conjunction with a
request for rezoning, special use permit, or in conjunction with NCC §
154.2.163(N).
         (e)   As part of any major water quality impact assessment submittal,
the Zoning Administrator may require review by the Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) and other agencies to assist in a complete review.
Upon receipt of a major water quality impact assessment, the Zoning
Administrator and other state and local agencies will determine if such review
is warranted and may request DEQ to review the assessment and respond with
written comments. Any comments by such agencies will be incorporated into the
final review by the Zoning Administrator, provided that such comments are
provided by said agencies within 60 days of the request.
      (9)   Evaluation procedure.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may determine that a modification or
reduction of the buffer area is appropriate if, after review of a complete
minor water quality impact assessment, it is established that:
            i.   The proposed encroachment is necessary to allow use of the
property and improvements may not be placed elsewhere on the site to avoid
disturbance of the buffer area;
            ii.   Impervious surface is minimized;
            iii.   Proposed best management practices, where required, achieve
the requisite reductions in pollutant loadings;
            iv.   Proposed mitigation measures, including the revegetation plan
and site design, result in minimal disturbance to all components of the RPA,
including the 100-foot buffer area;
            v.   Proposed mitigation measures will work to retain all buffer
area functions: pollutant removal, erosion and runoff control;
            vi.   The development, as proposed, is consistent with the purpose
and intent of this chapter; and
            vii.   The cumulative impact of the proposed development, when
considered in relation to other development in the vicinity, both existing and
proposed, will not result in a significant degradation of water quality.
         (b)   Prior to the approval of a proposed project or development, the
Zoning Administrator may determine that a modification or reduction of the
buffer area is appropriate if, after review of a complete major water quality
impact assessment, it is established that:
            i.   Within any RPA, the proposed development is water-dependent or
constitutes redevelopment;
            ii.   The disturbance of any wetlands will be minimized by noting
the percentage of existing wetlands to be disturbed and the acreage or square
footage of proposed wetland disturbance;
            iii.   The development will not result in significant disruption of
the hydrology of the site;
            iv.   The development will not result in unnecessary destruction of
plant materials on site;
            v.   Proposed erosion and sediment control concepts are adequate to
achieve the reductions in runoff and prevent off-site sedimentation;
            vi.   Proposed stormwater management concepts are adequate to
control the stormwater runoff to achieve the required performance standard for
pollutant control;
            vii.   Proposed revegetation of disturbed areas will provide
optimum erosion and sediment control benefits as well as runoff control and
pollutant removal equivalent to the full 100-foot undisturbed buffer area;
            viii.   The design and location of any proposed drainfield will be
in accordance with the requirements of section 110 of Virginia State Health
Department; and
            ix.   The development, as proposed, is consistent with the purpose
and intent of the CAP.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall require additional mitigation
where potential impacts have not been adequately addressed. Evaluation of
mitigation measures will be made by the Zoning Administrator based on the
criteria listed above in NCC §
154.2.163(N)(9) (a) and (b).
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall find the proposal to be
inconsistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter when the impacts
created by the proposal cannot be mitigated. Evaluation of the impacts will be
made by the Zoning Administrator based on the criteria set forth in NCC §
154.2.163(N)(9)(a) and (b).
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-2024)
§ 154.2.164 US 13 CORRIDOR DISTRICT (US13C).
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and referenced as the US 13
Corridor (US13C) District of Northampton County.
   (B)   Findings of fact. As the Eastern Shore of Virginia's primary route for
local and through traffic, U.S. Route 13 represents a significant community
investment and contributes to Northampton County's public health, safety, and
welfare. U.S. Route 13 provides access to jobs and schools, facilitates
delivery of emergency services, and supports movement of goods and services.
Furthermore, the U.S. Route 13 corridor serves as a first impression of
Northampton County for tourists and the traveling public and, as a safe and
accessible highway facility, serves a vital economic development function. The
US 13 Corridor District designation will provide for regulation of highway-
oriented businesses, industries, and residential development, as permitted by
the underlying zoning district, while preserving and enhancing the safety,
function, and capacity of the U.S. Route 13 corridor in Northampton County.
   (C)   Purpose and intent. Pursuant to the authority granted by the Code of
Virginia, and in particular the legislative intent established in VA Code §
15.2-2200 and the purposes of zoning ordinances established in VA Code § 15.2-
2283, the purpose of the US 13 Corridor District is to enhance the safety,
function, and capacity of designated highways. As major through traffic routes,
these highways represent significant community investments, and contribute to
the public health, safety, and welfare. Finally, as safe and accessible
facilities, the corridors serve a vital economic development function, which
the US13C District is intended to protect and preserve.
   (D)   Areas of applicability.
      (1)   The US13C District shall apply to all lands as designated by the
Board of Supervisors as US13C on the zoning district map. Such map, together
with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be part of this section.
      (2)   The US13C District shall apply to all developments abutting U.S.
Route 13 and requiring site plan or subdivision review. The US13C District
shall also apply to redevelopment projects, as outlined in division (J) below,
regardless of whether such redevelopment requires site plan or subdivision
review. For the purposes of this chapter, U.S. Route 13 shall mean the mainline
highway and bypass sections, and shall not mean sections of U.S. Route 13
Business.
   (E)   Use regulations. Permitted uses, special permit uses, accessory uses,
and special requirements shall be established by the underlying zoning
district, unless specifically modified by the requirements set forth herein.
These requirements may include, but shall not be limited to, requirements for
yards/setbacks, parking, landscaping, signs, and lighting.
   (F)   Lot size. Lot size shall comply with the requirements of the
underlying zoning district(s).
   (G)   Required conditions.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, projects such as commercial
centers shall be considered individual development projects. Expansions of
completed projects within the US13C District shall be subject to these
regulations. For developments subject to these regulations all required plans
may be submitted as a single plan, provided that all information is clearly
shown to meet the requirements outlined herein.
      (2)   To ensure adequate coordination with VDOT regarding highway access
management and traffic improvements, no site plan or subdivision plat shall be
approved without a written finding from the VDOT Residency Administrator that
the proposed roadway, driveway, and circulation systems are consistent with the
U.S. Route 13 Access Management Plan.
   (H)   Conflict with other regulations. In any case where the requirements of
this section conflict with any other provision of the Northampton County zoning
ordinance and other regulations or existing state or federal regulations,
whichever regulation imposes the more stringent restrictions shall apply.
   (I)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of these performance
standards is to minimize the impact of highway-oriented development on the
safety, function, and traffic capacity of the U.S. Route 13 corridor in
Northampton County.
      (2)   General performance standards for development and redevelopment.
         (a)   Site plans. All site plans shall include an access plan drawn to
the same scale as the site plan and showing existing and proposed location and
dimensions of all streets, sidewalks, driveways, crossovers, parking areas,
access points and aisles, landscape areas, and any other relevant information.
         (b)   Site access. Access to U.S. Route 13 shall be provided by direct
or indirect means, consistent with the following:
            i.   Number of access points.  Each tract of land recorded prior to
August 12, 2004, is entitled to one direct access point to the public roadway
network, subject to VDOT approval. Each tract of land recorded after August 12,
2004, is entitled to one direct access or indirect point to the public roadway
network provided that its location and design fulfill, at a minimum, the
minimum corner clearance and the minimum site distance requirements of this
chapter, subject to VDOT approval. Where the roadway frontage of a tract of
land is greater than 1,000 feet, an additional access point may be allowed, if
it is determined that the access point will not adversely affect the capacity
of the roadway as determined by a Traffic Impact Analysis and subject to VDOT
approval. Any additional access points must be in compliance with all
applicable sections of this chapter and approved by VDOT. Where multiple tracts
of land are developed as a single entity, as in the case of a commercial
center, office park, or similar development, they shall be treated as one tract
of land for the purposes of determining the permitted number of access points.
Whenever it is feasible from an engineering perspective to provide access to
U.S. Route 13, and/or any other major highway, from a side street connection
rather than directly onto U.S. Route 13 (or other such major highway), access
is required to come from such side street, subject to VDOT approval.
            ii.   Corner clearance. The minimum corner clearance of driveways
from intersecting streets shall be 400 feet approaching the intersection.
Downstream corner clearance shall be 250 feet minimum. For side street
approaches to U.S. Route 13, the minimum corner clearance shall be 250 feet. At
signalized intersections, corner clearances in excess of these minimum
dimensions may be required, in consultation with the VDOT. Where a traffic
study is submitted that shows 20-year peak period 95 percentile queue lengths
will not extend past the driveway location, corner clearances may be reduced,
in consultation with the VDOT.
            iii.   Minimum sight distance.  Minimum sight distances along the
highway shall be provided to allow vehicles to safely turn left or right onto
the highway. Sight distances provided along the US13C District shall be a
minimum of 1,000 feet.
            iv.   Outparcels. All access to outparcels must be internalized
utilizing the main access drive of the principal retail center. Access to each
outparcel shall be as direct as possible, avoiding excessive movement across
the parking aisles and queuing across surrounding parking and driving aisles.
In no instance shall the circulation and access of the principal commercial
facility and its parking and service be impaired.
            v.   Residential developments. New residential subdivisions shall
include an internal street layout which shall continuously connect to the
streets of surrounding developments or neighborhoods to accommodate travel
demand between adjacent neighborhoods without the necessity of using the
highway. Only within residential developments in this overlay district may
reverse or double frontage lots lawfully be created if necessitated for access
or other safety reasons.
            vi.   Median crossovers. Where a proposed development fronts an
existing or planned median crossover, access from the development to adjacent
sites shall be provided, so as to promote shared access and to minimize demand
for additional crossovers.
            vii.   Shared access and reverse frontage. Internal access roads
and inter-parcel connections shall be provided to facilitate the local movement
of traffic between existing and proposed development and to minimize demand for
local trips on the highway. Based on consultation with the VDOT Resident
Engineer, inter-parcel access may take the form of direct driveway connections
or reverse frontage roads.
            viii.   Pedestrian access. Pedestrian walkways shall be
incorporated into each project so as to minimize conflicts with vehicular
traffic. Pedestrian circulation systems shall connect uses within individual
projects, and shall be extended to adjacent parcels where inter-parcel
vehicular access is required.
            ix.   Bicycle access. Bicycle facilities may be incorporated into
each project so as to minimize conflicts with vehicular traffic. If installed,
bicycle circulation systems shall connect uses within individual projects, and
shall be extended to adjacent parcels where inter-parcel vehicular access is
required.
         (c)   Traffic impact analysis. All developments generating more than
2,000 average daily trips shall prepare and submit a traffic impact analysis.
The projected number of average daily trips shall be based on trip generation
rates as defined by the most recent publication of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers "Trip Generation." In addition, a traffic impact
analysis may be required for developments generating 2,000 or fewer average
daily trips when it is determined, in consultation with the VDOT Resident
Engineer, that safety considerations warrant such analysis. The traffic impact
analysis shall identify level of service impacts of the proposed development,
based on a 20-year demand projection, and shall be used to determine necessary
improvements to support the development. At a minimum, the impact analysis
shall address the following:
            i.   Turn lane and access improvements;
            ii.   Internal site circulation;
            iii.   Shared access/access to adjacent sites;
            iv.   Impacts to intersections and median crossovers;
            v.   Potential need for signalization; and
            vi.   Relationship of the proposal to the U.S. Route 13 Access
Management Plan.
         (d)   Required improvements. Required improvements, the need for which
is generated by the proposed development, shall be determined in consultation
with the VDOT Resident Engineer. The developer shall be responsible for
providing any required improvements, which shall be shown on site plans. The
need for required improvements shall be based on the following:
            i.   The U.S. Route 13 Access Management Plan;
            ii.   Applicable traffic impact analyses; and
            iii.   Highway safety and capacity.
         (e)   Setback from VDOT right-of-way.  Buildings shall be set back
from the VDOT right-of-way in accordance with Appendix B. The first 50 feet of
the setback area abutting the roadway shall be a vegetated buffer, the first 20
feet of which closest to the road shall be planted in grass and/or groundcover
to provide a clear zone for safety purposes. The remaining 30-foot area in the
50-foot buffer shall be maintained as an opaque buffer planted with native tree
species. Parking areas and stormwater best management practices may be located
in the setback outside the vegetated buffer.
   (J)   Redevelopment. In order to promote the orderly retrofit of existing
developments that do not conform to the requirements of the US13C District,
while encouraging reuse of previously developed properties, the following
redevelopment standards shall apply. The following standards provide guidelines
for use in bringing nonconforming sites into conformance. All trip generation
shall be based on ITE figures and methods as referenced herein.
      (1)   Access. Reconstruction, relocation, or elimination of access points
shall be required under any of the following circumstances. In such cases,
necessary improvements shall be identified in consultation with the VDOT
Resident Engineer, and shall be designed to bring the site into compliance with
the access provisions of this chapter.
         (a)   The redevelopment will cause an increase of ten average daily
trips (ADT) and 20% or more ADT.
         (b)   The redevelopment will cause any turning movement to increase by
five ADT and 20% or more ADT.
         (c)   The redevelopment will cause an increase in use by vehicles
exceeding 30,000 pounds gross vehicle weight of ten vehicles per day or 20% or
more vehicles exceeding 30,000 pounds gross vehicle weight per day.
         (d)   Structural enlargements, building improvements, or other site
improvements are made resulting in an increase of 20% of building square
footage or totaling 20% of current assessed building value.
         (e)   As required to address identified safety deficiencies, based on
consultation with the VDOT Residency Administrator.
      (2)   Traffic impact analysis. A traffic impact analysis shall be
submitted for all redevelopment projects in which the proposed use will
generate more than 2,000 ADT and/or increase existing ADT by 50% or more.
      (3)   Required improvements. Improvements required to support the
redevelopment of the property shall be based on consultation with the VDOT
Residency Administrator, the U.S. Route 13 Access Management Plan, required
traffic impact analyses, and highway safety and capacity.
      (4)   Signage. Redevelopment shall bring on-site signage into compliance
with §§
154.2.190 et seq. Reconstruction, relocation, or elimination of freestanding
signs shall be required when existing signs interfere with required site
distances.
      (5)   Lighting. Where structural enlargements, building improvements, or
other site improvements are made resulting in an increase of 20% of building
square footage or totaling 20% of current assessed building value, all lighting
shall be brought into compliance with §
154.2.112.
      (6)   Landscaping. Where structural enlargements, building improvements,
or other site improvements are made resulting in an increase of 20% of building
square footage or totaling 20% of current assessed building value, landscaping
shall be brought into compliance with §
154.2.105. This shall include appropriate landscaping of existing green space,
as well as provision of additional green space to the extent that it does not
interfere with traffic flow or required parking. Where additional green space
is required, priority shall be given to establishing front yard green space.
      (7)   Other requirements. Additional related existing zoning requirements
are located in the following sections of this zoning code:
         (a)   Setbacks: See §§
154.2.125 et seq.
         (b)   Signs: See §§
154.2.190 et seq.
         (c)   Lighting: See §
154.2.112.
         (d)   Landscaping: See §
154.2.105.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
FLOATING ZONE DISTRICTS
§ 154.2.175 FLOATING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A FLOATING DISTRICT is a zoning district which is currently unmapped,
but which the county believes could be appropriate and warranted when developed
pursuant to an overall project design and concept development plan to achieve
the development goals in the adopted Comprehensive Plan, subject to the
requirements contained in the ordinance. Approval to allow a floating district
requires a zoning map amendment from the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of the 2009 Comprehensive Amendments, the county
shall have three floating zoning districts:
         (1)   Mobile Home Park District (MHP);
         (2)   Bayview Planned Unit Development (PUD);
         (3)   Solar Energy District (SED) (adopted August 20, 2010).
   (C)   The purposes and intents of the MHP, Bayview PUD, and SED districts
are:
      (1)   Mobile Home Park (MHP). To accommodate mobile homes in a planned
neighborhood. All MHP Districts shall be served by approved sewage disposal
facilities, adequate access to a public road, and a public/community water
supply. In mobile home parks, no space shall be rented for residential use
except for a period of at least 30 days.
      (2)   Bayview Planned Unit Development (PUD). To recognize and permit
continued development of Planned Unit developments approved under prior zoning
regulations. It is the intent of Northampton County not to create any
additional Planned Rural Villages subsequent to the adoption of this chapter.
The presence of an Existing Planned Rural Village shall not serve as
justification for future rezonings outside the approved boundaries of the
Existing Planned Rural Village. The regulations applicable to the Planned Rural
Village floating district as set forth in the Northampton County zoning
ordinance adopted on December 28, 2000, are included in §
154.2.178 for reference purposes.
      (3)   Solar Energy Districts. The purpose is to permit the development
and operation of comprehensively planned and designed solar energy power
generation using photovoltaic cells on a parcel of land and/or on contiguous
parcels under unified control. In establishing a SED, the intent is to be
consistent with the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan § 3.5.2 (2006
Comprehensive Plan Update, as amended), which notes that "environmental
protection and economic prosperity can be reached as cohesive rather than
competing goals," and further, that new businesses "generate sufficient
revenues to provide desired services." The standards and procedures set forth
in this section are designed to achieve a harmonious and efficient layout of
structures, circulation, and connection to public utilities on or adjacent to
the SED and to ensure that such development does not adversely affect adjoining
properties or the county's natural resources. The SED may be located only in
the Ag/Rural Business and Existing Industrial Districts, within the acreage
limits of division (J) below.
   (D)   The minimum zoning regulations applicable to the MHP and SED districts
are:
 MHP SED
                                                  MHP       SED
Max. density                                       2:1       None
Uses allowed                                       See §    See §
                                                   154.2.176 154.2.178
Proffered plan                                     Yes       Yes
Max. height in feet for principal use              22        Solar panels 15
Min. height above ground in feet for principal use N/A       4
Front yard                                         See §    -
                                                   154.2.176
Side yard                                          See §    -
                                                   154.2.176
Rear yard                                          See §    -
                                                   154.2.176
Public central sewer required                      Yes       No
Public central water required                      Yes       No
Open space required                                Yes       No
 
   (E)   General provisions regarding Floating Districts.
      (1)   The procedures herein established are in recognition of the fact
that traditional density, bulk, spacing, and use regulations, which may be
useful in protecting the character of substantially developed areas, may impose
inappropriate and unduly rigid restrictions upon the development of parcels or
areas which lend themselves to a unified, planned approach and development. A
Planned Development should be designed to ensure that the following general
goals will be achieved.
         (a)   The proposed development shall be of such design that it is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan as well as other adopted plans and
policies of the county.
         (b)   The development will efficiently use available land and will
protect and preserve, to the extent possible, natural features of the land such
as trees, wetlands, streams and topographic features.
         (c)   The development will be located in an area in which
transportation, police and fire protection, schools and other public facilities
and public utilities, including water and sewage, are or will be available and
will be adequate for the uses proposed. The applicant may, where appropriate,
make provisions for such facilities or utilities which are not presently
available.
      (2)   In addition to their specific purposes and intents, floating
districts are intended:
         (a)   To promote the efficient and well-planned use of the land as a
means of achieving a superior living environment and a convenient, attractive
and harmonious community;
         (b)   To encourage the provision and conservation of open space within
such areas for leisure time uses;
         (c)   To encourage a variety of housing styles and types, including
affordable housing opportunities as described in the county's Affordable
Housing Policy;
         (d)   To ensure the provision of sufficient and properly located
public facilities;
         (e)   To protect against encroachment upon agricultural, marine and
other natural resources of the county;
         (f)   To encourage flexibility and innovation in project and community
design which would result in improved relationships between various uses of
land and transportation or other public facilities.
   (F)   Relation to conflicting requirements. Once a floating district has
been established by the Board of Supervisors, the regulations adopted in
conjunction with such project application shall control its use and development
in lieu of other requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Land use and dimensional requirements.  The land use, housing types,
minimum lot requirements, minimum yard requirements and accessory uses and
signs approved for a specific floating district shall be determined by the
requirements and procedures set forth in this section and adopted by the Board
of Supervisors.
   (H)   Floating Districts to have sufficient facilities. All MHP development
projects approved by the Board of Supervisors must be served by public water
and sewer systems (not individual onsite wells or septic fields), and have
appropriate highway access, police, fire and rescue, schools, libraries and
other public services sufficient to serve the needs of such projects and its
inhabitants. If central public sewer and water service is available to serve
the site, the Board may require that the proposed development be connected.
   (I)   Overall community plan. Floating districts must be approved with a
plan for the development of an overall community. Within such planned
developments, the locations of all residential, nonresidential, and
governmental uses, including parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, and other
open spaces shall be planned in an orderly relationship to one another.
   (J)   Procedure for establishment. The following provisions establish the
procedures for application and approval of a floating district development:
      (1)   Minimum and maximum acreage for initial Floating District.
 
District                    Acreage
Mobile Home Park (MHP)      Minimum: 5 acres
                            Maximum: 10 acres
Solar Energy District (SED) Minimum: No restriction
                            Maximum: 220 acres
 
      (2)   Enlargement of a Floating District.  Additional land area may be
subsequently approved and added on to a floating district if it adjoins an
existing floating district. The procedure for an addition shall be the same as
for an original application, and all of the requirements of this section shall
apply except the minimum acreage requirements as specified above. No additions
to existing floating districts smaller or larger than the following sizes are
permitted:
 
District                    Acreage
Mobile Home Park (MHP)      Minimum: 5 acres
                            Maximum: 10 acres
Solar Energy District (SED) Minimum: No restriction
                            Maximum: No restriction
 
      (3)   Application for a Floating District rezoning required. The
applicant shall file an application for rezoning with the Zoning Administrator,
and shall furnish with his/her application 22 copies of a Concept Development
Plan (CDP) and Statement of Justification.
         (a)   The CDP must show all of the applicable information required in
conjunction with the submission of a site plan (See §
154.2.045), including, but not limited to, showing the layout of all streets
and roads, the location of all buildings, parking areas, pedestrian ways,
utility easements (including water lines, power lines, sewer lines, pumping
stations, drainfields, storm water drainage facilities), lot lines, open
spaces, parks, recreation areas, school sites, playgrounds, the proposed use of
all land and buildings and the metes and bounds of all dedicated areas and
lots. The CDP must identify the proposed densities of housing units in
residential areas and the intensities of non-residential buildings and
structures and distances between features shown thereon. If the county planning
staff, the Planning Commission or the Board of Supervisors requires additional
information from the applicant to be able to adequately review the application,
it may request such additional information from the applicant.
         (b)   The Statement of Justification. In conjunction with the filing
of an application to rezone to a floating district, the applicant must submit a
Statement of Justification that addresses:
            (1)   The proposed uses, buildings, structures, density/intensity,
public improvements, layout/design of the project, surrounding zoning and land
uses, environmentally sensitive areas, soils, and any modifications to
ordinance provisions requested;
            (2)   Whether and how the application and proposed uses are in
compliance with the purpose and intent of the zoning district requested;
            (3)   Whether and how the application and proposed uses are in
conformance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan;
            (4)   Whether and how the application and proposed uses are
compatible with the surrounding character of the area;
            (5)   The anticipated impacts of the application and proposed uses
on the county (including, but not limited to, financial, tax, economic, public
facility and/or utility, public safety improvements, and transportation and
education system impacts) and how they will be addressed or alleviated;
            (6)   How the proffers will help to offset the impacts of the
application and proposed uses;
            (7)   The justification for any requested ordinance modifications;
            (8)   Whether and how the application and proposed uses will affect
the county's ground water supply, and how the application plans to address any
impacts of the proposed development;
            (9)   The anticipated impacts of the application and proposed uses
on environmentally sensitive land, natural areas, vegetation, water quality,
air quality, and historic features;
            (10)   Whether there has been any change in circumstances or
conditions in the area that make the proposed application and uses appropriate;
            (11)   Whether the existing zoning is still appropriate, along with
an explanation as to why or why not.
   (K)   Additional regulations applicable within a Floating District.
      (1)   Corner lots. Of the two sides of a corner lot, the front shall be
deemed to be the shorter of the two sides fronting on streets. The side yard on
the side facing the side street shall be 30 feet or more for both main and
accessory buildings.
      (2)   Accessory structures. The aggregate floor area of an accessory
building or structure shall not exceed 25% of the area of the lot or parcel.
      (3)   Minimum off-street parking. Minimum off-street parking requirements
set forth in this chapter shall apply.
      (4)   Signs. Requirements for signs shall be as set forth in §
154.2.190.
      (5)   Site plan approval. Requirements for site plan approval shall be as
set forth in §
154.2.045.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.176 MOBILE HOME PARK (MHP).
   (A)   Principal permitted uses and structures. The following uses shall be
permitted by right in the MHP District subject to other provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   Signs, as permitted in §§
154.2.190 et seq.;
      (2)   Mobile homes as defined in §
154.2.003;
      (3)   Accessory buildings;
      (4)   Playgrounds and parks;
      (5)   Community service or recreational buildings which are integral
components of the MHP;
      (6)   Off-street parking as permitted in §§
154.2.205 et seq.;
      (7)   Public utilities to serve the residents of the mobile home park;
      (8)   Erosion and stormwater control devices;
      (9)   Office for MHP rental/management.
   (B)   Special uses and structures. The following uses and structures may be
permitted by special use permit:
      (1)   Fire and rescue stations;
      (2)   Nursery and day care centers;
      (3)   Tennis and swim clubs for MHP residents.
   (C)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area for creation of a permanent Mobile Home Park District
shall be five acres.
      (2)   Minimum mobile home site area. Minimum site area for mobile homes
shall be 5,000 square feet space per unit.
      (3)   Maximum percent lot coverage (parks).  Mobile home sites, off-
street parking, and streets shall cover no more than 50% of the mobile home
park site.
   (D)   Setbacks. Mobile home sites and primary and accessory structures shall
have the following minimum yard/setback requirements.
 
                                                        Primary  Accessory
From U.S. Route 13                                       300 feet 300 feet
From other public access roads                           200 feet 200 feet
From tidal waters                                        200 feet 200 feet
From mobile home park property line                      50 feet  50 feet
Mobile home pad from internal access ways or common area 15 feet  --
 
   (E)   Vegetated buffer. Within the minimum 50 foot setback, each MHP shall
be buffered with a 25-foot width of semi-opaque vegetated buffering around its
entire perimeter, except for authorized entrance points, in the manner set
forth herein.
   (F)   Yard/setbacks. Yard/setback regulations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Minimum mobile home site area/space width: 40 feet.
      (2)   Distance between mobile homes: 25 feet from end to end; 25 feet
from side to side.
      (3)   Distance between mobile home and any community, public, or
recreational building: 50 feet.
   (G)   Heights. Buildings may be erected up to 22 feet in height, except
that:
      (1)   Any public or semi-public building, monument, water tower, chimney,
flue, flagpole, antennas or similar structures may be erected in accordance
with §
154.2.145.
      (2)   No accessory building which is within ten feet of any mobile home
park property line shall be more than ten feet high. All accessory buildings
shall be less than the main building in height.
   (H)   Corner lots.
      (1)   Of the two sides of a corner lot, the front shall be deemed to be
the shortest side fronting on a street.
      (2)   The side yard on the side facing the side street shall be 25 feet
for both main and accessory buildings.
   (I)   Accessory structures. Accessory buildings aggregate area shall not
exceed 25% of the gross site area outside of mobile home site areas.
   (J)   Open space and recreation area. Within the total required open space,
there shall be at least 100 square feet per unit of developed play and
recreation area. Each mobile home park shall provide not less than one
playground and no playground shall be less than 2,500 square feet in area.
   (K)   Access. Each mobile home space shall have frontage on a dedicated
public street or public access easement or shall have access over common area
to such a public easement, as determined by the Board of Supervisors. In cases
where lots do not have frontage on dedicated public streets, the public access
easement shall be a minimum of 30 feet wide. In cases where the easements dead-
end, there shall be a cul-de-sac with a minimum turning radius of 50 feet. The
30-foot public access easement shall be improved with a minimum 24-foot-wide
travelway. All such access travelways and walks shall be constructed in
accordance with the county's standards and specifications, and shall be located
as determined by the Board of Supervisors. At such time as the 30-foot public
access easements are designated by the appropriate county authority as fire
lanes, the lanes shall be posted with approved "No Parking" signs by the
developer/operator.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.177 BAYVIEW PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The one existing Planned Unit Development in the County, known as the
Bayview Citizens for Social Justice, will be renamed "Bayview PUD", with all of
its unique attributes as created by vote of the Board of Supervisors on August
11, 1999, pursuant to Zoning Map Petition 99-10.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.178 SOLAR ENERGY DISTRICT (SED).
   (A)   Intent of uses permitted in a SED. It is the intent of Northampton
County that the Solar Energy District be used solely for generation of solar
power to be connected directly to the electrical public utility grid. It is not
expected to generate heavy traffic and/or noise during operation. All such uses
shall be subject to approval by the Board of Supervisors through a rezoning
application with a plan of development. Any uses planned as accessory uses to
the principal uses shall be subject to approval by the Board of Supervisors as
part of the rezoning. If the solar power system is not built to completion
within two years after the SED is created, becomes unused, abandoned or vacated
for more than 12 consecutive months, the Board of Supervisors shall initiate a
rezoning process to eliminate the SED at that location.
      (1)   Uses permitted in SED.
         (a)   The following uses shall permitted by right in SED Floating
Zones, and subject to the SED approval by the Board of Supervisors:
            1.   Generation of solar electrical power using photovoltaic
panels.
            2.   Facilities to maintain, operate, manage and transmit that
power to the electrical public utility grid.
         (b)   The uses allowed by the district in which the parcel(s) is (are)
located prior to rezoning to SED may be continued in accordance with all
applicable regulations set forth in this chapter or elsewhere in the
Northampton County Code. Such uses are exempt from the performance standards
within SED in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Performance standards within SED.
         (a)   The lowest surface of any panel shall be a minimum of four feet
above the finished grade on which the panel is located.
         (b)   No stormwater discharge that causes a discharge of pollutants to
or degradation of county or state waters is permitted.
         (c)   The entire SED, including the area underneath the solar panels,
must be vegetated. Panels must be adequately spaced to ensure sufficient
sunlight penetration to promote growth of vegetation. A plan must be submitted
for maintenance of that vegetation, except for access roads and accessory
structures.
         (d)   All wiring not on the solar arrays shall be underground except
where necessary to connect to the public utility.
         (e)   The gross usable area will exclude any wetland areas that are
regulated by the Northampton County Wetlands Board or the U.S. Department of
the Interior (administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers). All forested
areas removed during construction or operation shall be mitigated by the
creation of an equal number of acres of equivalent forest.
         (f)   Space for any required public utility right-of-way must be
allocated.
         (g)   The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding an SED:
            1.   A vegetated buffer is required that consists of a landscaped
strip at least 50 feet wide measured from each boundary line of the SED around
the entire perimeter of the SED. Any fencing must be installed on the interior
of the buffer. A recommendation that the screening and/or buffer creation
requirements be waived may be made by the Planning Commission when the
applicant proposes to use existing wetlands or woodlands, as long as the
wetlands or woodlands are permanently protected for use as a buffer.
            2.   SEDs shall be landscaped and maintained with a buffer of plant
materials that are mature enough to effectively screen the view, to eight feet
above ground level, of the solar panels from adjacent properties all year
around. A landscape berm properly prepared to accept plants, up to four feet
high, may be used to assist reaching the required screening height. The
screening must be fully established within five years and effectively
maintained for the life of the SED. Non-invasive plant species must be used.
(See www.NPS.gov National Park Service - USFWS "Plant Invaders of the Mid
Atlantic Natural Areas”.)
            3.   Existing vegetation may be removed only as authorized during
the site plan review process to permit vehicular and utility access during
construction of the facility and installation of transmission power lines.
         (h)   Noise generated by the facility shall be limited to 60 DBA as
measured at the property line except when a back-up generator is needed for
maintenance. Construction on the site is exempt from this standard.
         (i)   Any installed lighting shall be in accordance with §
154.2.112(D), Outdoor Lighting Standards, of this chapter.
         (j)   If solvents are required for cleaning of solar modules, they
must be biodegradable.
         (k)   If a water supply is required, it must be from a source no
deeper than the Columbia aquifer even if a deeper source already exists within
the SED.
         (l)   All broken or waste solar modules shall be removed from the site
within 60 days of being taken out of service.
         (m)   Solar energy facilities, including the electrical and mechanical
components, shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state and national
codes.
         (n)   Required reporting.
            1.   The solar installation operator will notify the Board of
Supervisors as soon as the applicant is transmitting electricity from solar
panels to the electrical public utility grid.
            2.   The solar installation operator shall submit a report to the
Northampton County Department of Planning and Zoning once a year, no later than
July 1. The report shall state the current status of the installation.
            3.   Any change of ownership or management of the solar
installation shall be reported to the Board of Supervisors within 60 days of
the change.
   (B)   Special regulations within a SED.
      (1)   Setbacks. Basic setback requirements in a SED are shown in the
table below.
 
                                                  Primary Uses Accessory Uses
From Lankford Highway (US 13)                      100 ft.      150 ft.
From other public access roads                     60 ft.       60 ft.
From tidal waters and incorporated towns           150 ft.      200 ft.
From SED exterior boundary line when not increased 50 ft.       50 ft.
by the above
 
      (2)   All setback areas must be vegetated. The vegetation must be
maintained as effective soil sediment traps. The required screening buffer
described above in division (A) (2) (f) shall be created within and on the
interior side of the setback when it exceeds 50 feet.
      (3)   SED abutting US 13. Access shall not be from US 13 if access is
possible from a secondary road. If no secondary road is available, US 13 access
is limited to one entrance per SED, constructed to current VDOT standards.
      (4)   Support and maintenance buildings are accessory uses in an SED and
cannot be higher than 25 feet. The roofs may be designed to accommodate
additional flush mounted solar panels.
   (C)   Removal of abandoned solar generating equipment.
      (1)   A bond, whose amount shall be determined by the Director of
Planning, shall be required to assure removal of an unused solar energy power
generating system.
      (2)   Any solar energy power generating system that has not operated for
a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered unused and abandoned. The
owner of an unused system shall remove the entire system within six months of
receipt of notice from Northampton County notifying the owner of the equipment
removal requirement. Removal includes removing any underground structures or
supports and electrical transmission wire. All materials must be legally
removed from the site. The site shall be restored to its original condition
after removal is complete.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
SIGNS
 
§ 154.2.190 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   A sign permit is required except per provisions of this chapter. No
sign may be constructed, erected, moved, enlarged, illuminated or substantially
altered except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and with a
valid sign permit.
   (B)   Applications for a sign permit shall be submitted to the Planning,
Permitting and Enforcement Department with forms furnished by that Department.
The property owner shall provide sufficient information, which shall include
detailed renderings, including colors, sizes, lighting and location for all
signs. An application for a temporary sign shall state the dates intended for
the erection and removal of the sign. Sign requests for a multi-use or tenant
development projects shall be submitted in conjunction with the first site plan
submitted for approval within the project.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall process the sign permit
application and approve the application, reject the application or notify the
applicant of deficiencies within 20 business days after receipt. Any
application that complies with all the provisions of this zoning ordinance, the
building code, and other applicable laws, regulation and ordinances shall be
approved.
   (D)   If the application is rejected, the county shall provide a list of the
reasons for the rejection in writing. An application shall be rejected for non-
compliance with the terms of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other
applicable law, regulation, or ordinance.
   (E)   A nonrefundable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors shall accompany all sign permit
applications.
   (F)   Duration and revocation of sign permit. If a sign is not installed
within six months following the issuance of a sign permit (or within 30 days in
the case of a temporary sign permit), the permit shall be void. The permit for
a temporary sign shall state its duration, not to exceed 30 days unless another
time is provided in the zoning ordinance. The county may revoke a sign permit
under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The county determines that information in the application was
materially false or misleading;
      (2)   The sign as installed does not conform to the sign permit
application; or
      (3)   The sign violates the zoning ordinance, building code, or other
applicable law, regulation or ordinance.
   (G)   Special use. Comprehensive sign plans may be approved by a minor
special use permit. The comprehensive sign plans shall establish the time,
manner, and placement of signs, frequency of message changes, the materials,
the hours of lighting, the height of signs, the total number of square feet of
sign surface, and the number of signs to be placed on a site. Height of signs
shall not be modified above the height permitted in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.191 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   The following signs are not required to have a sign permit:
   (A)   Minor signs for non-commercial use;
   (B)   Signs erected by or on behalf of or pursuant to the authorization of a
governmental body, including legal notices, identification and informational
signs, traffic, directional, or regulatory signs;
   (C)   Official signs required by federal or state regulation;
   (D)   Flags of the United States and other nations, the Commonwealth of
Virginia, Northampton County and other political subdivisions of the United
States and of bona fide civic, charitable, fraternal and welfare organizations.
All such flags shall be mounted in a permanent fashion with no more than two
flags on a single pole. No more than three flag poles are permitted on any
single lot or parcel. Flags shall be maintained in good repair and shall not
constitute a hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (E)   Directional on premise signage which does not exceed four square feet
in size and six feet in height;
   (F)   Signs displayed on a truck, bus, trailer or other licensed vehicle
while in use in the normal conduct of business. Any such vehicle or trailer
shall, without limitation, be considered to be used for the primary purpose of
advertising if it fails to display current license plates or inspection
sticker, if inoperable, if evidence of paid-to-date local taxes cannot be made
available, or if the sign alters the standard design of such vehicle or
trailer;
   (G)   Historical markers identifying properties or structures which have
been recognized as historically significant on National, State, or local
registries, or in policy documents adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
Historical markers shall be allowed a maximum height of eight feet, and shall
not exceed four square feet in area;
   (H)   Temporary signs as follows:
      (1)   On premise real estate advertising signs;
         (a)   On premise signs advertising the sale, lease, or rental of
property shall be limited to one sign per agency per lot per street frontage or
frontage on navigable waterway;
         (b)   Signs shall not exceed four square feet in size and a maximum of
four feet in height except for agricultural, commercial and industrial zoning
districts in which signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in size and a maximum
of ten feet in height;
         (c)   The height of all signs shall be measured from ground level to
the top of the sign structure; and
         (d)   Such signs shall be removed within one week of sale or lease of
the lot or premises upon which such sign is situated;
      (2)   Off-premise real estate signs advertising the sale, lease, or
rental of property shall be allowed in conjunction with a bona fide "open
house" showing and shall not be erected for more than three days in any seven
day period;
      (3)   One sign, no more than 12 square feet in area, located on property
where a building permit is active;
      (4)   Not more than five minor commercial use signs per parcel; and
      (5)   Not more than three feather signs for commercial use per parcel.
Feather signs shall be limited to 15 feet in height;
   (I)   Political campaign signs.
      (1)   Such signs shall not be located within public rights-of-way or
attached to public utility structures and shall be limited to freestanding
signs not more than 16 square feet in area; except in agricultural, commercial
and industrial zoning districts, which shall not exceed 32 square feet in area;
and
      (2)   All such signs shall be removed within seven days following the
election, primary, or other event to which they were related; and
   (J)   Event signs.
      (1)   Such signs shall not be located within public rights-of-way or
attached to public utility structures and shall be limited to freestanding
signs not more than 16 square feet in area; except in agricultural, commercial
and industrial zoning districts, which shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   Event signs, including flags, indicating an event to be located on
property where the event such as a grand opening, fair, carnival, festival,
seasonal sale of local products, yard sale or other event is to take place may
be erected no more than 30 days prior to the event.
      (3)   All temporary event signs shall be removed within seven days
following the sale or other event to which they were related.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 10- -2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-
12-2024)
§ 154.2.192 GENERAL SIGN RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS PERTAINING TO ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs that violate any law of the Commonwealth relating to outdoor
advertising are prohibited.
   (B)   Signs that revolve or are animated to change message content except as
permitted in §
154.2.193(H) are prohibited.
   (C)   Signs that are attached to or utilize utility poles adjacent to
streets and roadways are prohibited.
   (D)   No signs or supporting structures shall be located within or over any
public right-of-way unless authorized by the holder of the right-of-way.
   (E)   No sign may be erected so that by its location, color, size, shape,
nature or message it would tend to obstruct the view of or be confused with
official traffic signs or other signs erected by governmental agencies.
   (F)   No sign may be located within the sight triangle that interferes with
the view necessary for motorists to proceed safely through intersections or to
enter onto or exit public or private roads.
   (G)   Portable signs and/or off-premise signs shall be prohibited unless
otherwise specifically allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.193 STANDARDS FOR SIGNS FOR WHICH PERMITS ARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless a comprehensive sign plan is approved by special use permit,
the following standards apply.
   (B)   Signs on properties used for non-residential purposes. Each non-
residential establishment, except for planned developments, home occupations,
and shopping centers, regulated separately in this section, shall be allowed
the following signs, attached to a wall or building unit containing the
establishment and conforming to the requirements set forth below.
      (1)   One wall sign, including digital display, shall be limited to not
more than 10% of the area of the structure's primary wall, or 200 square feet.
In addition, a wall sign up to 40 square feet shall be allowed on non-primary
walls.
      (2)   In the case of multiple occupancy buildings which are not shopping
centers, each occupant of a building shall be allowed a total of one wall sign
attached to an exterior wall. Such sign shall be limited to 10% of the area of
the wall to which it is attached or 200 square feet.
      (3)   Each establishment or, in the case of multiple occupancy buildings
which are not shopping centers, each building, is allowed one projecting sign
which meets the following standards:
         (a)   Each projecting sign shall not exceed 10% of the area of the
wall fronting or facing a public street or highway, or 40 square feet in area,
whichever is less.
         (b)   All projecting signs shall be mounted such that the bottom of
the sign is at least eight feet above grade.
      (4)   Canopy or awning sign shall be allowed in addition to the one wall
sign or one projecting sign.
      (5)   Mural art painted building walls are exempted from the above
restrictions if they do not contain words.
   (C)   Freestanding identification signs on properties used for non-
residential purposes.
      (1)   Each non-residential establishment, except for planned
developments, home occupations, and shopping centers shall be allowed a total
of one freestanding sign per lot or parcel not exceeding 64 square feet and 30
feet in height. In addition each business may have one informational sign for
approaching traffic from each direction of the business advertised subject to
Virginia Department of Transportation regulations, subject to the property
owner's permission, and not to exceed 32 square feet. Additional square footage
shall be permitted on an authorized on premise freestanding sign to allow for
signage indicating gasoline prices and grades. This signage is limited to a
maximum of 100 square feet, shall not exceed the maximum height limitation for
the freestanding sign and shall not be computed in the square footage of the
freestanding sign. Specific to freestanding signs with additional signage
indicating gasoline prices and grades, the minimum clearance from grade to the
bottom of the sign shall be seven feet.
      (2)   Off-site town business directory sign. The purpose of such a sign
is to inform travelers on Route 13 of businesses within a town and direct them
to the downtown center. These signs shall be allowed up to 40 square feet in
area, not to exceed 15 feet in height, and accommodate the town name,
changeable business name panels, the Eastern Shore brand logo, a directional
arrow and the mileage to the downtown commercial area. A sign permit is
required.
      (3)   Design standards for freestanding signs on properties used for non-
residential purposes.
         (a)   Placement. Except as otherwise permitted, all freestanding signs
shall be set back from any street or pedestrian walkway at least the height of
the sign.
         (b)   All freestanding signs, except for home occupation signs, shall
be monument-type signs, double-post signs, or single-post signs, and shall
comply with the following standards:
         (c)   Signs incorporated into a freestanding wall or completely solid
structure which is set upon footings shall be entitled to a 30% larger face
area than otherwise provided for in this subchapter provided the following
conditions are met:
            1.   The width of the base of the sign shall be equal to or greater
than the width of the sign face.
            2.   The height of the base of the sign shall be less than or equal
to the height of the sign face unless architectural pillars are used.
            3.   The total height of the sign, including the base, shall be
less than the width of the base.
            4.   The sign shall be masonry, wood, high density urethane (HDU),
composite panel or other suitable materials.
            5.   Shrubs, flowers, or other landscaping materials which do not
obscure the sign face shall be incorporated into the sign installation area.
         (d)   Double-post signs.
            1.   Total sign structure height shall not exceed 30 feet.
            2.   Sign shall be wood, HDU, composite panel or other suitable
materials.
         (e)   Single-post signs.
            1.   Total sign height shall not exceed 30 feet.
            2.   Sign structure shall be a single vertical mounting pole and
shall be made of wood, HDU, composite panel or other suitable materials.
            3.   Sign face shall not be attached directly to the vertical
mounting pole and shall utilize a mounting arm attached perpendicular to the
vertical mounting pole.
         (f)   Components of freestanding signs, (e.g., supporting structures,
backs, and the like) not bearing a message shall be constructed of materials
that blend with the natural environment or shall be painted a neutral color to
blend with the natural environment.
   (D)   Signs on properties used for residential purposes.
      (1)   Properties used for residential purposes are allowed one
freestanding sign per parcel, limited to no more than four square feet and four
feet in height.
      (2)   Signs on properties used for residential purposes shall not be
illuminated.
   (E)   Shopping centers.
      (1)   Individual establishments within a shopping center shall each be
allowed one wall sign which does not exceed 10% of the area of the wall
frontage dedicated to that establishment and does not extend over more than 85%
of the horizontal width of the building front.
      (2)   In addition to a wall sign, individual establishments within a
shopping center shall each be allowed one projecting sign which does not exceed
10% of the area of the structure frontage dedicated to that establishment.
      (3)   Shopping centers shall be allowed one freestanding identification
sign per road frontage, each limited to no more than 150 square feet in size
and 30 feet in height.
      (4)   Out parcels platted as part of a shopping center shall be allowed
one wall sign per establishment and one freestanding sign per road frontage,
with no sign greater than 60 square feet.
   (F)   Directional signs shall not be counted as signs for the purpose of
calculating the total number of signs in place.
   (G)   Residential uses such as residential subdivisions, multi-family
developments, and mobile home parks shall be allowed one freestanding
identification sign per public entrance, which shall be limited to no more than
32 square feet in size and seven feet in height.
   (H)   The following additional standards shall apply to all electronic
message center signs, whether they display a static message or image or a
message/image that changes:
      (1)   Electronic message center signs (changeable message or image signs)
which change more frequently than once every 24 hours shall be permitted
provided that:
         (a)   Each message or image shall remain fixed and unchanged for a
minimum period of five minutes;
         (b)   There shall be no appearance of movement, scrolling, dissolving
or fading in which images or messages "move" or in which part of one message or
image appears simultaneously with any part of a second or subsequent one;
         (c)   The maximum illumination intensity shall not exceed the limits
prescribed in §§
154.2.112 and
154.2.195 and in division (H)(2) below, whichever is less, and any illumination
intensity, contrast or coloration of the message text or image shall remain
constant for each display; and
         (d)   The minimum separation between any two electronic message center
signs located on adjoining properties shall be 100 feet.
      (2)   Illuminance intensity of any electronic message center sign,
whether with a static or changing message display, shall be measured with an
illuminance meter set to measure foot candles and accurate to at least two
decimals. The maximum allowable illumination intensity for such signs shall be
determined relative to ambient lighting conditions by measuring the difference
between an intensity reading of the ambient light taken with the sign
illumination turned off and an intensity reading of the sign face with the sign
displaying a white image for a full color-capable electronic message, or a
solid message for a single color electronic message. The difference between the
two readings shall not exceed 0.3 foot candle. All measurements shall be taken
perpendicular to the face of the sign at the distance determined by the total
square footage of the electronic message center sign as set forth in the
following table:
SIGN AREA VERSUS
MEASUREMENT DISTANCE
Area of Sign Measurement Distance (ft.)
(sq. ft.)
SIGN AREA VERSUS
MEASUREMENT DISTANCE
Area of Sign Measurement Distance (ft.)
(sq. ft.)
10           32
15           39
20           45
24           49
32           57
40           64
50           71
64           80
   
   For signs with an area other than those specifically listed in the table,
the measurement distance shall be calculated using the following formula:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2346.png]
      (3)   All electronic message center signs shall be equipped with a sensor
or other device that automatically determines the ambient illumination and
which is programmed to automatically dim the illumination intensity according
to ambient light conditions so as to ensure compliance with the 0.3 foot candle
standard.
      (4)   Prior to the county's final inspection and approval of an
electronic message center sign, the applicant shall provide written
certification from the sign manufacturer/installer that the sensor is working
correctly to keep the sign's illumination intensity within the prescribed
brightness limitations set by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-14-2018; Am. Ord. passed 3-
12-2024)
§ 154.2.194 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof that will encompass the
extreme limits of the writing representation, emblem, or other display. The
area shall not include any supporting framework, bracing or decorative wall
that is clearly incidental to the display itself.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.195 SIGN ILLUMINATION AND SIGNS CONTAINING LIGHTS.
   Signs shall adhere to lighting standards pursuant to § 154.2.112 General
Lighting Standards.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.196 MAINTENANCE OR REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs and all components thereof, including, without limitation,
supports, braces, and anchors, shall be kept in a state of good repair. Any
sign which becomes a safety hazard or which is not kept in a reasonably good
state of repair shall be put in a safe and good state of repair within 30 days
of a written notice to the owner and permit holder.
   (B)   If the message portion of a sign is removed, leaving only the
supporting "shell" of a sign or the supporting braces, anchors, or similar
components, the owner of the sign or the owner of the property where the sign
is located or other person having control over such sign shall, within two
years of the removal of the message portion of the sign, either replace the
entire message portion of the sign or remove the remaining components of the
sign. This division shall not be construed to enable the replacement of a
nonconforming sign except as provided in §
154.2.197 Nonconforming Signs nor shall this division be construed to prevent
the changing of the message of a sign.
   (C)   The owner of any sign, including a permitted off-premises sign,
regarding a commercial endeavor, where the use or business has ceased operating
shall, within 120 days of the cessation of use or business operation, replace
the sign face with a blank face until such time as a use or business has
resumed operating on the property.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.197 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in such a manner as
to increase the degree of the nonconformity nor may illumination be added to
any nonconforming sign.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring the
sign into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   If a nonconforming sign is destroyed or damaged in any manner to the
extent that the cost of restoration to its condition before such an occurrence
exceeds 50% of the current replacement value at the time of damage, the sign
shall not be replaced except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Such sign may not thereafter be repaired, reconstructed, or replaced except in
conformity with all the provisions of this chapter. The remnants of the former
sign structure shall be cleared from the property.
   (D)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, nonconforming signs
may be repaired and renovated so long as the cost of such work does not exceed,
within any 12 month period, 50% of the value of such sign.
   (E)   If a nonconforming sign remains blank for a continuous period of two
years, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, be altered to comply with this chapter or be removed by the sign
owner, owner of the property where the sign is located, or any other person
having control over such sign. For purposes of this section, a sign is "blank"
if:
      (1)   It advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation,
attraction, or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or
being offered or conducted;
      (2)   The advertising message it displays becomes illegible in whole or
substantial part; or
      (3)   The advertising copy has been removed.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
§ 154.2.198 REMOVAL OR ABANDONMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is located when the business which it advertises is no longer
conducted on the premises.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may order the removal of any sign erected or
maintained in violation of this section upon 30 days written notice to the
owner of such signs, or the owner of the building, structure or premises on
which such sign is located, to remove the sign or to bring such sign into
compliance with this chapter. Upon failure to comply with such notice, the
Zoning Administrator shall take the appropriate action to obtain a court order
to remove the sign.
   (C)   If a sign advertises a business or activity that is no longer
operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be considered
abandoned and shall, within two years after such abandonment, be removed. The
cost for removal shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Such sign
shall be removed by the owner of the property if notified by Northampton County
to do so.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2024)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.2.205 INTENT.
   There shall be provided at the time of erection of any main building, or at
the time any main building is enlarged, minimum off-street parking space with
adequate provision for entrances and exits by standard-size automobiles, as
follows in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.206 SPACE ON SAME LOT AND ADJACENT LOTS.
   (A)   General. All off-street parking spaces appurtenant to any non-
residential use permitted in any district shall be provided on the same lot
with the use to which it is appurtenant. All off-street parking spaces
appurtenant to any residential use permitted in any residential district shall
be provided on the same lot with the use of which it is appurtenant, except as
qualified below.
   (B)   Approval of alternate location. Off-street parking spaces appurtenant
to any residential use permitted in any residential district shall be provided
on the same lot with the use of which it is appurtenant. However, if the Zoning
Administrator determines that the required parking on the lot is physically not
possible or that public safety would be better served by off-site parking, the
Zoning Administrator may approve off-site parking.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.207 COOPERATIVE PARKING.
   (A)   Approval by Zoning Administrator. Parking space required under the
provisions of this chapter may be provided cooperatively for two or more uses
in a development or for two or more individual uses, subject to arrangements
that will assure the permanent availability of such space, if such arrangements
are approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Reductions for combined uses. The amount of such combined parking
space shall be equal to the sum of the amounts required for the separate uses
unless the Zoning Administrator determines that a reduced number of parking
spaces is adequate due to different hours of normal activity for the uses
participating in the combination.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.208 SAFE AND CONVENIENT ACCESS REQUIRED.
   All off-street parking space and off-street loading space shall be provided
with safe and convenient access to a public street. All permitted uses
requiring site plan approval shall have entrances constructed in accord with
the specifications of the County Engineer and VDOT and shall be approved by the
county's Director of Planning and Zoning.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.209 PARKING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   Type of construction. All off-street parking spaces, loading space,
aisles, and driveways, except those provided for single-family dwellings, shall
be constructed and maintained with a dustless surface and of such type of
construction that the same will be available for safe and accessible use at all
times. It shall have appropriate safety barriers where needed as determined by
the Administrator, and all off-street parking spaces shall be delineated on the
site.
   (B)   Illumination. See §
154.2.112 General Lighting Standards.
   (C)   Design. All parking spaces will be so designed so that no part of any
vehicle will extend over any property line, roadway, right-of-way, walkway,
driveway, or aisle space.
   (D)   Landscaping.  See §
154.2.105 Landscape Plan Requirements and Standards.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.210 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking spaces and lots shall meet the following general
requirements.
   (A)   Same lot. Parking spaces for all uses shall be provided on the same
lot with the use or structure to be served except as provided for in §
154.2.206.
   (B)   Off-site parking. For parking addressed by §
154.2.206(B), alternative locations may be authorized by the Zoning
Administrator subject to the following conditions and criteria:
      (1)   Maximum distances to off-site lots or spaces must be not more than
150 feet from two-family and multi-family attached dwelling units and not more
than 500 feet from all other uses. Distances shall be measured by normal
pedestrian routes.
      (2)   Approval will be subject to safeguards called for by the
circumstances of the case, to design and improvement standards applying to off-
street parking areas, and to the requirement that such parking space shall be
associated with the permitted use of the structure, and not to be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
      (3)   The required number of off-street parking spaces for any number of
uses may be combined in one lot, provided that each space is permanently
available for the assigned use. The amount of space required may be reduced for
a church, or for a meeting place of a civic, fraternal, or similar organization
by reason of different hours of normal activity than those of other uses
participating in the combination of required spaces.
   (C)   Large vehicles. Construction vehicles, trucks and trailers of a gross
weight of more than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW), and all boats,
campers, and recreational vehicles shall be parked behind a line drawn parallel
to the font of the existing structure closest to the front property line or the
front setback line, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Reduction of existing parking. Off-street parking existing on October
21, 2009 and used in connection with the operation of an existing use or
structure shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for
a similar new use or structure.
   (E)   Determination of requirements when unspecified. Whenever the required
number of parking or loading spaces is not specifically stated in this section,
the Zoning Administrator shall make a determination of the number of spaces to
be provided based upon his/her determination of the closest comparable use for
which required spaces are stated.
   (F)   Modifications of parking/loading requirements. The Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to reduce the minimum required number of
parking and/or loading spaces by up to 20% if it is determined during the site
plan review process that the required number of spaces is clearly excessive for
a particular use proposed, based upon the following factors: maximum staffing,
seating capacity, gross floor area, hours of operation, and the availability of
cooperative parking. If an applicant proposes to install a number of parking
and/or loading spaces exceeding the minimum requirement established, the Zoning
Administrator also shall have the authority to limit the number of spaces based
upon the factors stated above.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.211 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking spaces, aisles, and driveways, except those provided
for one- and two-family dwellings, shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Surfacing of parking lots. All such parking and drive areas shall be
graveled or surfaced in some other manner to reduce erosion and to reduce the
generation of mud and dust.
   (B)   Drainage. Parking areas shall be adequately drained so as not to allow
flowing or standing water that could impede the pathways or travelways of
vehicles or pedestrians or otherwise pose safety hazards or to cause adverse
effects on neighboring properties.
   (C)   Guard devices. Parking lots shall have appropriate safety barriers
where needed as determined by the Zoning Administrator that such barriers are
necessary to ensure the safety of persons using the parking lot and/or the
safety of the general public.
   (D)   Markings. All off-street parking spaces with hard surfaces and in
excess of ten or more parking spaces shall be marked/delineated on the site.
   (E)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall be arranged
so that light shines and/or is reflected away from adjacent properties and in a
manner that does not affect traffic on adjacent roads.
   (F)   Design. All parking spaces shall be designed so that no part of any
vehicle extends over any property line, right-of-way, walkway, and driveway or
aisle space.
   (G)   Landscaping. All off-street parking lots and areas shall be landscaped
as provided in §
154.2.105.
   (H)   General standards. Any off-street parking space shall have minimum
dimensions of 9 feet by 20 feet, except that parallel parking spaces shall be
at least 9 feet by 22 feet. Each space shall be unobstructed, shall have access
to a public street, and shall be arranged so that any vehicle may be moved
without moving another, except in the case of parking for one- and two-family
dwellings and in the case of parking for employees on the premises. In
addition:
      (1)   Minimum aisle widths required for parking areas shall be according
to the following table.
 
Parking Angle (in degrees) Aisle Width (in feet)
0 - 44                     NA
45 - 59                    13.5
60 - 69                    18.5
70 - 79                    19.5
80 - 89                    21
90                         22
 
      (2)   Requirements for handicapped access. For each 25 off-street parking
spaces, there shall be one off-street parking space for handicapped persons.
For any number of off-street parking spaces less than 25, one off-street
parking space designated for handicapped persons shall be required. Parking
spaces for handicapped persons shall be designed in accordance with standards
specified in the Uniform Statewide Building Code.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.212 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Requirements. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided on the
premises of any use hereafter established or enlarged, and occupying more than
3,000 square feet of lot area which, during the course of any operating day,
receives or distributes goods or materials by trucks more than 20 feet in
overall length. One loading space shall be provided if the land devoted to such
establishment or use has an area of more than 3,000 but less than 20,000 square
feet and one additional space shall be provided for each additional 20,000
square feet of land area or remaining fraction thereof exceeding 10,000 square
feet.
   (B)   Specifications. Loading spaces shall be 12 feet by 45 feet with
minimum height clearance of 14 feet both for the space and for accessways and
maneuvering areas related to it.
      (1)   All loading space and related access areas shall be graded,
improved, and maintained in a manner permitting safe and accessible use under
normal weather conditions and so as to avoid adverse effects on neighboring
property as a result of dust, noise, or drainage.
      (2)   No required loading space shall be located in a required setback
area when adjacent to a public street.
      (3)   All loading spaces shall be marked as a "Loading Space."
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.213 MINIMUM IMPERVIOUS PARKING SPACES REQUIRED FOR PERMITTED USES.
   The following spaces shall be required.
   (A)   Animal hospitals and commercial kennels.  One space per 400 square
feet of gross floor area plus one per each employee.
   (B)   Automobile service stations. One space per each service bay/stall and
one space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum number
of employees on duty. In addition, when accessory activities are conducted on
the site, additional parking spaces shall be required. If the station also
rents vehicles of any type (for example, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, and/
or trailers) the lot shall have enough additional area to accommodate the
highest number of rental vehicles expected at any one time at the station.
   (C)   Banks. One parking space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Barber shops, beauty shops, health spas and centers.  One space per
200 square feet of gross floor area plus one space per employee.
   (E)   Bowling alleys. Three spaces per lane.
   (F)   Car washes. One parking space for each employee, plus exterior spaces
to accommodate three times the maximum interior capacity of the car wash.
   (G)   Carry-out/fast food restaurants. Thirteen spaces per each 1,000 square
feet or fraction thereof of gross floor area.
   (H)   Cartage and express facilities. One space per each three employees
plus one space per each vehicle maintained.
   (I)   Churches, auditoriums, or similar places of assembly. A minimum of one
space for each four patrons allowed per occupancy limitations.
   (J)   Commercial and private heliports. One space per each 1,000 square feet
of operational area (landing, servicing, storage, and hangar space).
   (K)   Commercial skating rink. One space for each 125 square feet or
fraction thereof of skating rink area.
   (L)   Contractors or construction shops, offices and yards. One space per
each 1,000 square feet of operational area or fraction thereof, plus one space
for each employee working on site for the work shift with the maximum number of
employees.
   (M)   Dance halls. One space per each 100 square feet of gross floor area.
   (N)   Fast food establishments, with or without drive-through facilities.
Eighteen spaces per each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof of gross floor
area. In addition, eight spaces are required for vehicles stacking to use any
drive-in facility.
   (O)   Food or chain stores. Five spaces per each 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area or fraction thereof.
   (P)   Funeral homes. One space per each 15 square feet area in assembly
rooms or chapels or fraction thereof.
   (Q)   Furniture stores. Two spaces for the first 1,000 square feet plus one
additional space for each 400 square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet
of retail area or fraction thereof, plus one space for each employee working on
the work shift with the maximum number of employees.
   (R)   Greenhouses and nurseries. One space per each 100 square feet of
retail sales area for the first 5,000 square feet and one space for each 200
square feet of retail sales area above 5,000 square feet of retail area, plus
one space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum number
of employees.
   (S)   Hospitals, nursing, convalescent homes.  One space for each two beds,
including cradles, children's beds, plus one space for each employee working on
the work shift with the maximum number of employees.
   (T)   Industrial uses. Off-street parking spaces for every employee on the
work shift with the maximum number of employees. Those uses permitted in the
Industrial Districts shall have a maximum of two off-street parking spaces for
each employee working on the work shift with the maximum number of employees.
   (U)   Laundromats. One parking space for each two washing machines, plus one
space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum number of
employees.
   (V)   Medical and dental clinics. One space for each 100 square feet of
floor area or fraction thereof, plus one space for each employee working on the
work shift with the maximum number of employees.
   (W)   Office buildings. One space for each 100 square feet of net office
floor area or fraction thereof.
   (X)   Printing and publishing facilities. One space per each employee plus a
minimum of two and a maximum of ten customer parking spaces.
   (Y)   Production or processing of materials, goods, or products. One space
per each employee, plus a minimum of two and a maximum of ten customer parking
spaces.
   (Z)   Sit-down restaurants. Thirteen spaces per each 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
   (AA)   Testing, repairing, cleaning, servicing of materials, goods, and
products. One space per each employee, plus a minimum of two and a maximum of
ten customer parking spaces.
   (BB)   Theater, drive-in. One space per each potential vehicle at the
facility, plus one space for each employee working on the work shift with the
maximum number of employees.
   (CC)   Theater, indoors; theater, outdoors.  One space per each two seats,
plus one space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum
number of employees.
   (DD)   Inn, historic inns, motels, and hotels.  One space for each
accommodation unit, plus one space for each employee working on the work shift
with the maximum number of employees.
   (EE)   Town houses, and other multi-family residential. Two spaces per unit
minimum.
   (FF)   Trailer sales and rental, boat showrooms and model home sales. One
space per each 3,000 square feet of business area or fraction thereof.
   (GG)   Warehousing and wholesaling operations. One space per each employee,
plus a minimum of two and a maximum of ten customer parking spaces.
   (HH)   Other non-retail establishment uses not listed in this section. Non-
retail establishments not otherwise referenced in this section shall provide
one space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum number
of employees, plus such additional parking spaces as determined by the Zoning
Administrator based upon an analysis of the proposed use and the number of
spaces required for comparable uses stated herein.
   (II)   Other retail use establishments not listed in this section. Three
spaces per each 1,000 square feet of retail sales area or fraction thereof,
plus one space for each employee working on the work shift with the maximum
number of employees.
   (JJ)   Multiple uses on a lot. When more than one use is conducted on a lot,
the lot shall satisfy the combined parking requirements for each of the uses.
   (KK)   Event venue. One parking space for each three attendees based on the
maximum number of attendees approved for the site.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 154.2.225 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of five members who are residents
of the county shall be appointed by the Circuit Court of Northampton County,
Virginia. The term of office of the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall be for five years except that the original appointments shall have been
made for such terms so that the term of one member shall expire each year. One
member of the Board of Zoning Appeals may be a member of the Planning
Commission; however, no other member shall hold any public office. Members of
the Board of Zoning Appeals may receive such compensation as may be authorized
by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   (1)   Appointments for vacancies occurring other than by expiration of
term shall in all cases be for the unexpired term.
      (2)   A member whose term expires shall continue to serve until the
successor is appointed and qualified.
      (3)   Members may be removed for cause as provided in VA Code § 15.2-
2308.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.226 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   An application for a variance may be made by any property owner,
tenant, governmental official, department head, board, or bureau. Such
application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator in accordance with rules
adopted by the Board. The application and accompanying maps, plans and other
information shall be transmitted promptly to the Secretary of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, who shall place the matter on the docket to be acted upon by
the Board.
   (B)   No such variance shall be authorized except after notice and public
hearing as required by VA Code § 15.2-2204. The Zoning Administrator shall also
transmit a copy of the application to the Planning Commission which may send a
recommendation to the Board or appear as a party at the hearing.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.227 PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall follow the procedures as provided in VA
Code § 15.2-2308.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules as it may deem
necessary to carry out the duties imposed by this chapter, such rules being in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the
county and general laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
   (B)   Officers. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect annually a
Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson from its own membership. The Board may elect
as its Secretary either one of its own members or a qualified individual who is
not a member of the Board; provided however, that a Secretary who is not a
member of the Board may not vote on matters before the Board. The Chairperson
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Vice-
Chairperson shall act in the absence of the Chairperson.
   (C)   Meetings. The meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at
the call of the Chairperson and at such other time as a quorum of the Board of
Zoning Appeals may determine. All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be open to the public.
   (D)   Records. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep full and complete
records of its proceedings, showing the vote or failure to vote of each member
on each question and shall submit a report of its actions to the Board of
Supervisors at least once a year.
   (E)   Quorum for conducting business. A quorum for conducting business shall
be not less than a majority of all the members of the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.228 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the following,
as provided by VA Code § 15.2-2309.
   (A)   Administrative review. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall decide
appeals from any decision, order, requirement, or determination of the Zoning
Administrator or any other administrative official in the administration or
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall decide applications for variances
from the terms of this chapter. Variances may be approvable when certain
criteria are met, when such approval will not be contrary to the public
interest, and when, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions will result in unnecessary hardship; provided that the intended
purpose and spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice
done. In authorizing a variance, the Board of Zoning Appeals may impose such
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
structure or use as it may deem necessary in the public interest and may
require a guarantee or bond to insure that conditions imposed are being and
will continue to be complied with. No variance shall be granted until the Board
of Zoning Appeals has held a public hearing and given public notice in
accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2204. Consistent with and pursuant to VA Code §
15.2-2308, no variance shall be granted until the Board of Zoning Appeals finds
and is satisfied that:
         (a)   The property owner acquired his/her property in good faith but
by reason of the exceptional narrowness, shallowness, size or shape of the
specific piece of property at the effective date of this chapter; by reason of
exceptional topographic conditions; or by reason of other extraordinary
situations or conditions of such piece of property or of the use or development
of property immediately adjacent thereto, the strict application of the terms
of this chapter would effectively prohibit or unreasonably restrict the use of
the property, or there exists a clearly demonstrable hardship, as distinguished
from a special privilege or convenience sought by the applicant;
         (b)   That the strict application of this chapter would produce undue
hardship;
         (c)   That such hardship is not shared generally by other properties
in the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (d)   That the authorization of the variance will not be of
substantial detriment to adjacent property and that the character of the
district will not be changed by the granting of the variance;
         (e)   That the condition of the situation of the property is not of so
general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation
of a general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. The Board of Zoning Appeals may
hear and decide applications for interpretation of the district boundaries
where there is any uncertainty as to the location of the district boundary. The
Board of Zoning Appeals shall interpret the map in such ways as to carry out
the intent and purpose of this chapter for the particular district in question;
however, it shall not have the power to change the locations of district
boundaries as established by ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.229 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   An appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of Northampton County
affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator in the administration or
enforcement of this chapter. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
the decision appealed from, and in case of an appeal from a notice of violation
by the Zoning Administrator, or a written order from the Zoning Administrator,
shall be taken within 30 days of receipt of such order or notice and shall
follow this procedure.
   (A)   Filing of application.
      (1)   All appeal applications shall specify all of the grounds for appeal
and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals who shall
refer the application to the Board of Zoning Appeals and to the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Zoning
Appeals all the paper constituting the record upon which the action appealed
was taken.
   (B)   Fee. Each application for an appeal shall be accompanied by payment of
a fee to be determined by the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to
the Board of Zoning Appeals that by reason of facts stated in the certification
a stay would in his/her opinion cause imminent peril of life or property, in
which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or by a Court of Record, after
notice to the Zoning Administrator and for good cause shown.
   (D)   Public hearing. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to said Board. After
notice and public hearing as required by VA Code § 15.2-2204, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall decide the matter within 60 days from the date of such
public hearing.
   (E)   Decision of Board of Zoning Appeals.  In exercising its powers, the
Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify
the decision, order, requirements, or determination that was the subject of the
appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.230 APPEALS FROM BOARD.
   (A)   Any person or persons, taxpayer, officer, department, board or bureau
of Northampton County jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals may file with the Circuit Court of Northampton County a
petition specifying the grounds on which aggrieved within 30 days as provided
in VA Code § 15.2-2314.
   (B)   Certiorari. Upon presentation of such petition, the court shall allow
a writ of certiorari and shall prescribe therein the term within which a return
thereto must be made and served upon the appellant's attorney, which shall not
be less than ten days and may be extended by the court. The allowance of the
writ shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may on application, on notice of the Board of Zoning Appeals, and due cause
shown, grant a restraining order.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
NONCONFORMING USES AND VESTED RIGHTS POLICY
§ 154.2.245 INTENT.
   The intent of this section is to regulate and limit the development and
continued existence of uses, structures, and lots established prior to the
effective date of this chapter, as amended, which do not conform to the
requirements of this chapter. Many nonconformities may continue, but the
provisions of this section are designed to curtail substantial investment in
nonconformities and to bring about their eventual improvement to a conforming
status or elimination, in order to preserve the integrity of this chapter and
the desired character of the county. Any lawful nonconforming use, structure,
or lot which lawfully existed as of the effective date of this chapter and
which remains nonconforming, and any use, structure, or lot which has become
nonconforming as a result of the adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
reclassification of zoning districts or other amendment to this chapter, may be
continued or maintained only in accordance with the terms of this section. The
limitations of this section shall not apply to structures or lots whose
nonconforming features are the subject of a variance that has been granted by
the Board of Zoning Appeals or a modification or condition that was approved by
the Board of Supervisors. Such nonconformities are not intended to and may not
be used as a grounds for changing their property's zoning category or as
grounds for changing other nearby zoning categories.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.246 NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS OR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Uses. Lawful nonconforming uses may be continued but not be enlarged
or extended; except as provided in §
154.2.082, Statements for Primary and Secondary Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Lots of record. At the time of enactment of this chapter, or any
amendment thereto, if there is an unimproved legal lot or parcel of record
which does not meet the minimum lot area requirement within a district, then
said lot or parcel of record may still be used as a building lot, provided the
use proposed is a permitted use under this chapter, and provided further that
the requirements for minimum yards/setbacks and maximum height are met.
Further, variances may be available in certain circumstances from the Board of
Zoning Appeals in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Structures. Where a lawful nonconforming structure exists as of
October 21, 2009, that could not be built in the district in which it is
located under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yard dimensions or other requirements, such structure may
continue to be used so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   Should a lawful nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for
any distance it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (2)   (a)   Should a nonconforming structure, portion of the
nonconforming structure, or nonconforming portion of a structure be damaged or
destroyed by any means other than a natural disaster or other act of God, the
structure or portion thereof may be re-constructed or restored provided its
degree of nonconformity is not increased beyond that which existed just prior
to such damage, except to comply with the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building
Code and in accordance with §
154.2.141(A)(3).
         (b)   Should a nonconforming residential or commercial structure be
damaged or destroyed by a natural disaster or other act of God, the structure
may be repaired, rebuilt, or replaced to eliminate or reduce the nonconforming
features to the extent possible, without the need to obtain a variance as
provided in §
154.2.225 et seq. herein.
         (c)   If such structure is damaged greater than 50% and cannot be
repaired, rebuilt, or replaced except to restore it to its original
nonconforming condition, the owner shall have the right to do so, provided that
a building permit is obtained and all work is done in compliance with the
provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code and flood plain regulations
as set forth in
Chapter 159 Floodplain Management, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement be accomplished within two years of the date of
the natural disaster or other act of God.
         (d)   However, if the nonconforming structure is located in an area
under a federal disaster declaration and the structure was damaged or destroyed
as a direct result of the conditions that gave rise to the declaration, then
the owner may have an additional two years to repair, rebuild, or replace the
structure as otherwise provided in this section.
         (e)   For the purposes of this section, ACT OF GOD shall include any
natural disaster or phenomena including a hurricane, tornado, storm, flood,
high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, earthquake, or fire caused by
lightning or wildfire.
         (f)   Owners of a structure damaged by an accidental fire, not
including arson committed by the property owner, shall have the same rights to
repair, rebuild, or replace such structure as if it were damaged by an act of
God.
   (D)   Manufactured/mobile homes.
      (1)   A lawful nonconforming manufactured home may be removed from a
mobile or manufactured home park and replaced with another comparable
manufactured home that meets the current HUD manufactured housing code. In such
manufactured or mobile home park, a single-section home may be replaced with a
single-section home and a multi-section home may be replaced with a multi-
section home.
      (2)   A lawful nonconforming mobile or manufactured home not located in a
mobile or manufactured home park may be replaced with a single-section or a
multi-section manufactured home that meets the current HUD manufactured housing
code.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 154.2.247 NONCONFORMITY IN GENERAL.
   (A)   If there is only a change in title or renewal of a lease of any
nonconforming lot or structure access, the existing use may continue, subject
to the rules herein.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is discontinued for a period
exceeding two years after enactment of the ordinance set forth in this chapter,
it shall be deemed abandoned and lose its lawful nonconforming status, and any
subsequent use shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. However, if a
building is damaged or destroyed by a natural disaster or other act of God, the
conditions of which give rise to a federal disaster declaration covering the
area in which the building is located, then a total of four years from the date
of said declaration shall be allowed for the building to be repaired, rebuilt,
or replaced before it loses its lawful nonconforming status.
   (C)   Whenever a nonconforming use or structure has been changed to a more
limited nonconforming use, such more limited existing use may be changed to an
even more limited use so long as it is allowed (by right or after special use
permit approval) within that zoning district.
   (D)   Temporary seasonal uses may constitute lawful nonconforming uses so
long as they were originally legal when this ordinance was adopted and so long
as they have continued seasonally and never been abandoned for a period of two
years or more. As with other lawful nonconforming uses, temporary seasonal uses
may not be expanded or enlarged without losing their lawful nonconforming
status.
   (E)    Whenever the boundaries of a zoning district are changed, any use of
land or buildings which become nonconforming as a result of such change shall
become subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.248 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any lawful nonconforming use,
ordinary repairs on or repair or replacement of non-structural features such as
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing are allowed to such extent that the structure is
kept in a usable condition.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any structure or part thereof declared
necessary for safety upon order of the Northampton County Building Official.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.249 PROVISIONS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   Any use of a structure which exists at the time of enactment of this chapter
which is permitted in the district in which it is located as a special use
shall not be deemed a nonconforming use or structure, but shall, without
further action by the county, be considered a conforming use. However, such a
use or structure shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter as a
special use when expansion, enlargement, extension, alteration, or modification
is proposed. Single-section or multi-section manufactured homes that comply
with the current HUD manufactured housing code are exempt from the requirements
of this section in accordance with §
154.2.246(D)(2) provided that the degree of nonconformity is not increased.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.250 VESTED RIGHTS POLICY.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to impair legally vested rights.
Northampton County recognizes those vested rights recognized by VA Code § 15.2-
2307, inter alia.
§ 154.2.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being or have been violated, he/she shall have all authority
authorized under VA Code, Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VII, including, but
not limited to, those powers set forth in VA Code §§ 15.2-2286 and 15.2-2299,
to ensure compliance with and the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to take whatever legal measures
are necessary to ensure compliance with and/or prevent further violation of the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the issuance of
notices of violation and/or cease and desist orders, the filing in appropriate
courts of enforcement actions for declaratory, injunctive, abatement, and/or
other relief.
   (C)   Consistent with these powers, the Zoning Administrator may, as one of
many enforcement methods, notify in writing by certified mail or in person the
landowner and/or person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature
of the violation and ordering that the violation be corrected within a
reasonable period of time, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, and may
take any action authorized by law to insure compliance with or prevent further
violation of the provisions of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may grant
an extension of the time if he/she deems such extension is justified under the
specific circumstances of the case and that such extension will not cause
substantial peril of life, health, or property.
   (D)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2311, any written notice of a zoning
violation or written order of the Zoning Administrator shall state that the
recipient may have a right to appeal the violation notice or order within 30
days and that the decision will be final and unappealable if not appealed
within 30 days.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator also is authorized to refer the zoning
violation matter for prosecution and penalties pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2286
(A)(5). Anyone found to have violated this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $1,000. If the violation is uncorrected at the time of the conviction, the
court shall order the violator to abate or remedy the violation in compliance
with the chapter, within a time period established by the court. Failure to
remove or abate the violation within the time specified by the court shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 and any such failure during any succeeding ten-day
period shall constitute a separate offense for each ten-day period punishable
by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
§ 154.2.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2286 (A)(5), any person, firm or
corporation, whether as principal agent, employee or otherwise, violating or
causing or permitting the violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $1,000. If the violation is uncorrected at the time of conviction,
the court shall order the violator to abate or remedy the violation in
compliance with this chapter within a time period established by the court.
Failure to remove or abate a zoning violation within the specified time period
shall constitute a separate misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $1,000, and such failure during any succeeding 30
day period shall constitute a separate misdemeanor offense for each 30 day
period punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   Civil Penalties. The Zoning Administrator may, in accordance with VA
Code § 15.2-2209, impose civil penalties against any person, firm or
corporation, whether as principal agent, employee or otherwise, for violating
or causing or permitting the violation of the following sections of this
chapter: §§
154.2.190 through
154.2.999. The schedule of offenses does not include any zoning violation
resulting in injury to any persons.
      (1)   The existence of these civil penalties shall not preclude the
Zoning Administrator from taking action pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2286(A)(4)
or the Board of Supervisors under VA Code § 15.2-2208.
      (2)   The civil penalty for any one violation shall be $200 for the
initial summons and $500 for each additional summons. Each day during which the
violation is found to have existed shall constitute a separate offense.
However, specified violations arising from the same operative set of facts
shall not be charged more frequently than once in any 10-day period. The
maximum penalty for specified violations arising for the same operative set of
facts shall be $5,000. Violations designated above shall be in lieu of criminal
sanctions. The schedule of offenses is uniform for each type of violation.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator or his/her deputy may issue a civil
summons for a violation on the schedule of offenses. Any person summoned or
issued a ticket for a scheduled violation may make an appearance in person or
in writing by mail to the department of finance or the treasure of the locality
prior to the date fixed for trial in court. Any person so appearing may enter a
waiver of trial, admit liability, and pay the civil penalty established for the
offense charged. Such persons shall be informed of their right to stand trial
and that a signature to an admission of liability will have the same force and
effect as a judgment of court.
      (4)   If a person charged with a scheduled violation does not elect to
enter a waiver of trial and admit liability, the violation shall be tried in
the general district court in the same manner and with the same right of appeal
as provided for by law. In any trial for a scheduled violation authorized by
this section, it shall be the burden of the county to establish the liability
of the violator by a preponderance of the evidence. An admission of liability
or finding of liability shall not be a criminal conviction for any purpose.
      (5)   No provision herein shall be construed to allow the imposition of
civil penalties:
         (a)   For activities related to land development; or
         (b)   For violation of any provision of this chapter relating to the
posting of signs on public property or public rights-of-way.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
CLICK_TO_VIEW_TABLE_AS_PDF_IMAGE
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category 1 -                   Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 Agricultural C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB CG/EB/ E1 WW
 Uses                                                             C-1
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
   Category 1 -              Village  Waterfront Village Town Edge
   Agricultural    A/ H/ WH/                        ECC/             CG/
   Uses         C  R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R  NB  WC  R    1   R   NB  EB/ E1  WW
                   B                                                 C-1
   Agri-
1  business     M/ R  R  -   R  -  -  R  -  -   -   -    R   -   -   -   R    
   office, on-  S
   site
   Agriculture  M/           M/       M/ M/
2  research     S  R  -  -   S  -  -  S  S  M/S M/S M/S  M/S -   M/S M/S -    
   facility
   Agritourism
   activities   M/    M/
3  at an        S  R  S  M/S R  -  -  R  -  -   R   -    R   -   -   -   -    
   agricultural
   operation
   Forestry and
4  forestry     R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  -   -   R    R   R   R   R   -    
   product
   harvesting
   Grain
5  storage      -  R  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  -   -   -    -   -   -   -   R    
   facility,
   commercial
   Grain
6  storage      M/ R  S  S   M/ -  -  S  -  -   -   -    M/S -   -   -   R    
   facility,    S            S
   private
   Grain/
7  soybean      R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R   -   -    R   R   R   R   R    
   production
   Greenhouse
   sales,
   retail with
8  outdoor      -  R  S  -   S  -  R  S  -  M/S -   -    S   S   R   R   R    
   storage and
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Greenhouse
   sales,
9  wholesale    -  R  -  M/S R  -  R  R  -  M/S -   -    R   -   -   R   -    
   with outdoor
   storage
   Horse barn,
10 private*     -  R  M/ -   R  M/ -  M/ -  -   -   -    R   M/S -   -   -    
   (one per           S         S     S
   acre)
   Horse
   boarding/
   training,
11 commercial*  -  M/ M/ -   S  -  -  S  -  -   -   -    S   -   -   -   -    
   with            S  S
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Irrigation
12 pond,        S  R  M/ -   M/ -  -  M/ -  -   -   -    M/S -   -   -   -    
   excavated/im       S      S        S
   pounded
   Irrigation
   well (over      M/ M/     M/       M/
13 300,000      -  S  S  -   S  -  -  S  -  -   -   -    M/S -   -   -   -    
   gallons per
   month)
   Landscape
14 contractor - -  R  R  M/S R  M/ M/ R  M/ M/S -   -    R   M/S M/S R   R    
   design and                   S  S     S
   maintenance
   Livestock -
   domestic/for
   private use        M/        M/ M/    M/
15 (traditional R  R  S  M/S R  S  S  R  S  M/S -   M/S  R   M/S M/S -   -    
   farm-based
   livestock
   husbandry)
   Livestock
16 production - -  R  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -    
   intensive
17 Migrant      -  M/ -  -   M/ -  -  M/ -  -   -   -    S   -   -   -   -    
   labor camp      S         S        S
   Orchard/vine
   yard with
18 accessory    -  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  -   -   R    R   R   R   S   -    
   goods/
   services
   Ornamental
   plant
   nursery with
   greenhouses
19 (less than   -  R  -  -   R  R  M/ R  -  -   -   -    R   R   -   -   R    
   20 acres)                       S
   with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Ornamental
   plant
   nursery with
   greenhouses
20 (greater     -  R  -  -   R  -  -  R  -  -   -   -    M/S -   -   -   M/S  
   than 20
   acres) with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Packing            M/     M/       M/
21 shed,        -  R  S  -   S  -  -  S  -  -   -   -    M/S -   -   -   R    
   commercial
   Packing
22 shed,        M/ R  R  -   R  -  -  R  -  -   -   -    R   -   -   -   R    
   private on   S
   farm
   Preparation,
   processing
   or sale of
   food
23 products     R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R   R   R    R   R   R   R   R    
   associated
   with an
   agricultural
   operation
   Sale of
   agricultural
24 products     R  R  R  R   R  -  R  R  -  R   R   R    R   R   R   R   R    
   from a farm
   market
   Sale of
   agricultural
25 products     R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R   R   R    R   R   R   R   R    
   from a farm
   stand
   Traditional               M/
26 animal       -  R  -  -   S  -  S  -  -  -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -    
   husbandry
   Use of
   structure
27 accessory to R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R   R   R    R   R   R   R   R    
   a farming
   operation
28 Vegetable    R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R   -   R    R   R   R   R   R    
   production
   Wildlife
29 impoundment  R  R  R  R   R  -  -  R  -  -   -   -    R   -   R   -   -    
   ponds,
   seasonal
   Winery,
   production,
30 with         -  R  R  -   R  -  M/ R  -  M/S -   M/S  R   -   M/S M/S R    
   accessory                       S
   goods/
   services
                                                           
 
R - By Right S - Special Use Permit M/S - Minor Special Use Permit E Exempt
from Zoning Clearance
* Appears in more than one category.
Aquaculture Uses are included in Category 6, Marine-Related Uses
( APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
  Category 2                   Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
  -                                                              CG/EB/
  Commercial C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB C-1    E1 WW
  Uses
(   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
                                Village  Waterfront        Town Edge
    Category 2 -                         Village
    Commercial        A/ H/ WH/                       ECC/            CG/
    Uses           C  R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R  NB WC  R    1   R   NB EB/ E1 WW
                      B                                               C-1
1   Adult daycare, -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    7 or more*
2   Adult daycare, -  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ R  M/ M/ R  -   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   -   
    up to 6*          S  S      S  S     S  S
    Aerobic
    studios, up to       M/
3   2,500 sq. ft.  -  -  S  -   -  S  R  -  S  R  -   S    -   S   R  R   -   
    with accessory
    goods/services
    Animal
4   grooming with  -  M/ M/ S   M/ M/ R  M/ M/ R  -   S    M/S M/S R  R   -   
    accessory         S  S      S  S     S  S
    goods/services
    Antiques mall,
5   enclosed,      -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    greater than
    2,500 sq. ft.
    Antiques shop,
6   enclosed - up  -  M/ M/ -   M/ M/ R  M/ M/ R  -   S    M/S M/S R  R   -   
    to 2,500 sq.      S  S      S  S     S  S
    ft.
    Appliance
7   repair shop -  -  -  -  -   -  -  R  -  -  R  -   S    R   -   R  R   R   
    no outside
    storage
    Artist studio, M/ M/ M/     M/ M/    M/ M/
8   up to 2,500    S  S  S  M/S S  S  R  S  S  R  -   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   -   
    sq. ft.
    Artist studio,
9   over 2,500 sq. -  M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  M/ -  M/ -   -    M/S -   R  R   -   
    ft., up to        S  S      S        S     S
    5,000 sq. ft.
    Artisan           M/ M/     M/ M/    M/ M/
10  studio, up to  -  S  S  M/S S  S  R  S  S  R  -   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   -   
    2,500 sq. ft.
    Artisan
    studio,
11  greater than   -  M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  M/ -  M/ -   -    M/S -   R  R   R   
    2,500 sq. ft.     S  S      S        S     S
    to 5,000 sq.
    ft.
    Auction
12  markets,       -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    enclosed
13  Auto body/auto -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  S   R   
    painting shops
14  Auto rental    -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    agency
15  Auto repair    -  -  M/ -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    garage               S
    Auto sales,
16  service and    -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    rentals up to
    20,000 sq. ft.
17  Auto service   -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  S   R   
    stations
    Banks/
18  financial      -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    institutions
    Barber shops
19  with accessory -  -  R  -   -  -  R  -  -  R  -   -    -   -   R  R   -   
    goods/services
    Beauty shops         M/
20  with accessory -  -  S  -   -  -  R  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   R  R   -   
    goods/services
21  Bed and        -  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ R  M/ M/ R  -   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   -   
    breakfast         S  S      S  S     S  S
    Beverage
22  distribution,  -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    wholesale
    Bicycle
23  rentals/sales  M/ R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R   R   
    with accessory S
    goods/services
24  Bowling alley  -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    Broadcasting
25  studio, radio/ -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    tv
    Building
26  material sales -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    with outside
    storage
    Campgrounds
27  with accessory -  S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    -S  -   -  -   -   
    goods/services
27A Campground,                                S              
    rustic
28  Car wash       -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
29  Carpet and rug -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  S   R   
    cleaning
    Catering, off-       M/     M/ M/    M/ M/
30  premise        -  R  S  -   S  S  R  S  S  R  -   -    M/S M/S R  R   R   
    service
    Conference/
    retreat
    center, up to     M/        M/       M/
31  10 guest       -  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  S  S  -   -    M/S S   S  R   -   
    rooms, with
    accessory
    goods/services
    Conference/
    retreat
    center, 11 -
32  25 guest       -  S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  S  -   -    S   -   S  R   -   
    rooms, with
    accessory
    goods/services
33  Convenience    -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   S    S   -   S  S   R   
    store
    Dance halls       M/ M/        M/ M/    M/                     M/
34  (up to 3,000   -  S  S  M/S -  S  S  -  S  -  S   M/S  -   -   S  R   R   
    sq. ft.)
    Dance halls
35  (3,000 - 5,000 -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    sq. ft.)*
    Dance/visual         M/
36  arts studios,  -  -  S  -   -  -  R  -  -  R  -   -    -   -   R  R   R   
    instructional
    Day spa with         M/        M/       M/
37  accessory      -  R  S  M/S R  S  R  R  S  R  -   -    R   M/S R  R   -   
    goods/services
    Design studio,    M/ M/     M/       M/    M/
38  up to 2,500    -  S  S  -   S  -  R  S  -  S  -   -    M/S -   R  R   -   
    sq. ft.
    Design/
    production
39  facility, up   -  S  -  -   S  -  R  S  -  S  -   -    S   -   R  R   R   
    to 5,000 sq.
    ft.
    Domestic
    animal            M/ M/     M/ M/    M/ M/
40  training with  -  S  S  S   S  S  R  S  S  R  -   -    M/S M/S R  R   -   
    accessory
    goods/services
41  Dry cleaning/  -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  S   R   
    laundry
    Electrical
42  repair shop,   -  -  M/ -   -  -  R  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   R  R   R   
    no outside           S
    storage
43  Event Venue    -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  S   S   
    Flea market
44  with permanent -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    structure or
    without
45  Flexible term  -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  M/ -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    rental units                               S
    Funeral homes
46  (with or       -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    without
    crematorium)
    Furniture
    repair/
    refinishing
47  and            -  M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  -  -  R  -   S    M/S -   R  R   R   
    restoration;      S  S      S
    cabinet
    making/
    carpentry shop
48  Game center,   -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    coin-operated
    Guide/
    outfitter
    services*,     M/ M/ M/     M/ M/    M/ M/
49  waterfront     S  S  S  M/S S  S  R  S  S  R  M/S -    M/S M/S R  R   R   
    service, with
    accessory
    goods/services
    Health club/
50  fitness center -  -  -  -   -  -  R  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   R  R   -   
    with accessory
    goods/services
    Home
51  occupation -   R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  -   R    R   R   R  R   -   
    Home business/
    office
    Home
    occupation -
52  micro-         E  E  E  E   E  E  E  E  E  E  -   E    E   E   E  E   -   
    business/
    office
    Inn, historic
    - Pre 1950        M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/
53  structure with S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  S  S  S   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   -   
    accessory
    goods/services
    Kennels and
    boarding of                 M/       M/
54  animals with   -  R  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  -  -   -    M/S -   S  R   R   
    accessory
    goods/services
    Landscape
55  contractor -   -  R  R  M/S R  M/ M/ R  M/ M/ -   -    R   M/S M/ R   R   
    design and                     S  S     S  S                   S
    maintenance
56  Laundromat     -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    Lawn mower/
    small engine
    sales,
57  service, w/    -  -  M/ -   M/ -  R  -  -  -  -   -    M/S -   R  R   R   
    opaque               S      S
    screened
    outdoor
    storage
    Memorial
    burial parks,
    commercial or
58  non-profit     -  S  S  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    S   -   -  -   -   
    operation (not
    part of a
    church yard)
59  Meteorological -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -   -   
    (MET) tower
60  Miniature golf -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
61  Mini-storage   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    facilities
62  Mobile home    -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    sales
63  Moped rentals  -  -  M/ -   -  -  R  -  -  R  -   M/S  M/S -   R  R   -   
    and sales            S
    Motels and
64  hotels, up to  -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    10 rooms
    Motels and
65  hotels, 11 -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   -   
    25 rooms
    Motels and
66  hotels, 26 -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  S   -   
    100 rooms
67  Music studio   -  -  M/ -   -  -  M/ -  -  M/ -   -    -   -   M/ R   R   
                         S            S        S                   S
    Neighborhood
68  commercial     -  -  S  -   -  -  R  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   M/ R   R   
    center, up to                                                  S
    5,000 sq. ft.
    Neighborhood
    commercial
69  center, 5,000  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    - 10,000 sq.
    ft.
    Nursery/
    daycare of           M/        M/       M/
70  preschool      -  R  S  M/S R  S  R  R  S  R  -   M/S  R   M/S R  R   -   
    children (6 or
    less)
    Nursery/
    daycare of        M/        M/          M/
71  preschool      -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  S  S  -   -    S   -   S  R   -   
    children (7 or
    more)
72  Office,        -  -  M/ M/S -  M/ R  -  M/ R  S   -    -   M/S R  R   R   
    business             S         S        S
73  Office,        -  -  M/ M/S -  M/ R  -  M/ R  -   -    -   M/S R  R   R   
    professional         S         S        S
    Other retail
74  establishment, -  -  -  -   -  -  M/ -  -  M/ -   -    -   -   M/ R   -   
    2,500 - 5,000                     S        S                   S
    sq. ft.
    Other retail
    establishment,
    including            M/
75  waterfront     -  -  S  -   -  -  R  -  -  R  M/S M/S  -   -   R  R   -   
    service, less
    than 2,500 sq.
    ft.
    Other retail
76  establishment, -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    5,000 - 25,000
    sq. ft.
    Petroleum
77  product bulk   -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -   R   
    storage for
    wholesale
78  Photographic   -  -  M/ -   -  -  R  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   R  R   R   
    studio               S
79  Plein Aire     -  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R   -   
    events
80  Plumbing       -  -  M/ -   -  -  R  -  -  M/ -   -    -   -   R  R   R   
    repair shop          S                     S
81  Pool/billiard  -  -  -  -   -  -  M/ -  -  S  -   S    -   -   S  R   R   
    room*                             S
    Railroad
82  passenger      -  S  S  -   S  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    S   -   S  R   R   
    station
    Regional
83  commercial     -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    center, up to
    20,000 sq. ft.
    Restaurant,
    over 2,500 sq.
84  ft. or any     -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    with drive-
    thru service
    Restaurant,
    any with
85  outdoor        -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    seating, no
    drive-thru
    Restaurant,
    including
    waterfront                        M/       M/
86  service, less  -  -  S  S   -  -  S  -  -  S  M/S S    -   -   S  R   R   
    than 2,500 sq.
    ft., no drive-
    thru service
87  Adaptive Re-   S  M/ M/ S   M/ -  M/ M/ -  M/ -   S    M/S -   M/ R   -   
    Use Business      S  S      S     S  S     S                   S
    RV/camper
88  sales/service/ -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    rentals
    Schools of
    special
89  instruction,   -  -  S  -   -  -  R  -  -  S  S   -    -   -   R  R   R   
    less than 25
    students
    Schools of
    special
90  instruction,   -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    25 or more
    students
91  Shoe repair    -  -  M/ -   -  -  R  -  -  R  -   -    -   -   R  R   -   
                         S
92  Short term     R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R   R  R
    rental
93  Skating rink,  -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    ice/roller
    Specialty food
94  production,    -  M/ M/ -   M/ M/ R  M/ M/ M/ -   M/S  M/S M/S R  R   R   
    2,500 sq. ft.     S  S      S  S     S  S  S
    or less
95  Stone monument -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    processing
    Subdivision
    sales/rental
96  office, on-    -  R  R  -   R  R  -  R  R  -  -   -    R   R   Z  R   -   
    site at an
    approved
    subdivision
97  Taxidermy      -  M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  M/ -  M/ -   -    M/S -   R  R   R   
    services          S  S      S        S     S
    Temporary
    seasonal sales
    - Christmas
98  trees,         -  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R   R   
    seafood, etc.
    (4 - 30 days)
    with accessory
    goods/services
    Theater,
    indoor single
99  screen/stage   -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R   R   
    less than
    5,000 sq. ft.
    Tourism info   M/ M/        M/    M/ M/    M/                  M/
100 office, kiosk  S  S  -  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  M/S -    M/S -   S  R   -   
    or staffed
102 Truck/freight  -  -  -  -   -  -  -- -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  S   R   
    terminal
103 Truck stop     -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    S   -   -  S   R   
    Veterinary
104 clinics with   -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  -   -    S   -   S  R   R   
    accessory
    goods/services
    Veterinary
    services (no
105 overnight      -  M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  M/ -  R  -   -    M/S -   R  R   R   
    boarding) with    S  S      S        S
    accessory
    goods/services
    Warehousing,
    including
106 moving and     -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R   R   
    storage with
    accessory
    goods/services
107 Wood splitting -  R  -  -   M/ -  -  M/ -  -  -   -    M/S -   -  -   R   
    and packing                 S        S
    Yard/garage
108 sales, 4 - 15  -  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  -  -   R    R   R   R  R   -   
    days
    Yard/garage
109 sales,         E  E  E  E   E  E  E  E  E  E  E   E    E   E   E  E   -   
    temporary, 3
    days or less
                                                           
 
R - By Right S - Special Use Permit M/S - Minor Special Use Permit E - Exempt
from Zoning Clearance
* Appears in more than one category.
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category                    Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 3 -
 Community C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB CG/EB/ C-1 E1 WW
 Service
 Uses
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
                                                                      Village  Waterfront       Town Edge
                                                                               Village
   Category 3 - Community Service Uses                      A/ H/ WH/                      ECC/          CG/
                                                         C  R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R  NB WC R    1  R  NB EB/ E1 WW
                                                            B                                            C-1
1  Adult daycare, 7 or more*                             -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
2  Adult daycare, up to 6*                               -  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ R  M/ M/ R  -  M/S  M/ M/ R  R   -   
                                                            S  S      S  S     S  S             S  S
3  Airstrip, private normal use (PNU)                    -  M/ -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -   -   
                                                            S
4  Airstrip, private occasional use (POU)                -  R  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -   -   
5  Alternative waste water treatment system (accessory)  S  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/S  M/ M/ M/ M/S M/  
                                                            S  S      S  S  S  S  S  S  S       S  S  S      S
6  Animal shelter, non-profit operation                  -  R  S  -   M/ -  S  -  -  -  -  -    M/ -  S  R   R   
                                                                      S                         S
   Churches/                                                             M/ M/    M/ M/            M/ M/
7  places of worship (with or without on-site cemetery)  -  R  R  M/S R  S  S  R  S  S  -  S    R  S  S  R   -   
   up to 10,000 sq. ft.
   Churches/                                                M/        M/       M/               M/    M/
7A places of worship (with or without on-site cemetery)  -  S  S  -   S  S  S  S  S  S  -  -    S  S  S  M/S -   
   10,001 - 20,000 sq. ft.
8  Colleges/                                             -  S  -  -   S  -  S  S  -  -  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
   universities
9  Community center, up to 5,000 sq. ft.                 -  -  M/ S   -  -  S  -  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   R   
                                                               S
10 Helipad, private                                      -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -   R   
11 Hospitals                                             -  S  -  -   S  -  S  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  S  R   R   
12 Library                                               -  -  M/ -   -  M/ R  -  S  R  -  -    S  S  R  R   -   
                                                               S         S
13 Medical clinics (outpatient)                          -  S  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
14 Meeting facilities for fraternal, civic and similar   -  S  S  S   S  -  M/ S  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
   organizations, up to 5,000 sq. ft.                                       S
15 Museums, public or commercial, with accessory goods/  -  S  S  -   S  S  R  S  S  R  -  -    -  -  R  R   R   
   services
16 Nursery/                                              -  R  M/ M/S R  M/ R  R  M/ R  -  M/S  R  M/ R  R   -   
   preschool (6 or less)*                                      S         S        S                S
17 Nursery/                                              -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
   preschool (7 or more)*
18 Post offices                                          -  S  S  -   S  S  R  S  S  R  -  -    -  -  R  R   R   
19 Public safety facilities - police, fire, rescue       S  S  R  S   R  S  R  R  S  R  -  S    -  -  R  R   R   
   stations, including government offices
20 Public utility, Class A: See definition               R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R    R  -  R  R   R   
21 Public utility, Class B: See definition               S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S   S   
22 Recreational, educational or social events by a non-  E  E  E  E   E  E  E  E  E  E  E  E    E  E  E  E   -   
   profit organization, temporary
23 Recreational or social uses within a subdivision for  -  E  E  E   E  E  E  E  E  E  -  E    E  E  E  E   -   
   use of residents only
24 Research radar installation with or without ancillary _  S  _  _   S  _  _  S  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _   _   
   structures
25 Residential care facilities (for medical/             -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
   mental patients), up to 5,000 sq. ft.
26 Sanitary landfill, public (local government operated) -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -   -   
27 Schools, primary or secondary, public or private      -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  -  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
28 Schools, vocational or technical, public or private   -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  -  S  -    -  -  S  R   R   
29 Sewage treatment facilities                           -  S  -  -   S  S  S  S  S  S  -  -    S  S  S  S   R   
30 Social club, private, up to 5,000 sq, ft              -  S  S  S   S  S  M/ S  -  S  -  -    -  -  S  R   -   
                                                                            S
31 Solar energy facility, small system                   R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R    R  R  R  R   R   
32 Wireless Communicati on Facility (WCF)                                                       
  A. WCF ≤ 50 feet                                    R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R    R  R  R  R   R   
  B. WCF > 50 feet and ≤ 100 feet on a parcel ≥ 5 acM/sR  M/ -   M/ -  -  -  -  M/ -  -    -  -  -  R   R   
                                                         S     S      S              S
  C. WCF > 100 feet and ≤ 199 feet on a parcel ≥ 5  S  S  S  -   S  -  -  -  -  S  -  -    -  -  -  M/S R   
   acres
  D. WCF > 50 feet and ≤ 100 feet on a parcel < 5 acreM/ M/ M/ -   M/ -  -  -  -  M/ -  -    -  -  -  R   R   
                                                         S  S  S      S              S
  E. WCF > 100 feet and ≤ 199 feet on a parcel < 5    S  S  S  -   S  -  -  -  -  S  -  -    -  -  -  M/S R   
   acres
33 Telephone exchange, unmanned                          -  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  -  -    S  S  S  R   R   
34 Waste collection center, public (local government     -  S  S  -   S  S  S  S  S  S  -  S    -  S  S  R   R   
   operated)
35 Wind energy facility: wind energy test facility: wind -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -   S   
   turbine, large or utility-scale
   Wind turbine, small, less than or equal to 35 feet in
36 total height in accordance with standards in §       R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R    R  R  R  R   R   
   154.2.114
   Wind turbine, small, greater than 35 feet and 120     M/ M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/      M/ M/ M/     M/
37 feet total height in accordance with standards in §  S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  S  S  S  M/S  S  S  S  M/S S   
   154.2.114
   Wind turbine, small, greater than 120 feet and 199
38 feet total height in accordance with standards in §  S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S   S   
   154.2.114
   Windmills less than or equal 35 feet total height, in
39 accordance with standards in §                       R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R    R  R  R  R   R   
   154.2.114
   Windmills greater than 35 feet and 120 feet total     M/ M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/      M/ M/ M/     M/
40 height, in accordance with standards in §            S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  S  S  S  M/S  S  S  S  M/S S   
   154.2.114
   Windmills greater than 120 feet and 199 feet total
41 height, in accordance with standards in §            S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S   S   
   154.2.114
 
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category 4                   Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 -                                                              CG/EB/ C-
 Industrial C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB 1         E1 WW
 Uses
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
   Category 4 -               Village  Waterfront Village Town Edge
   Industrial       A/ H/ WH/                        ECC/            CG/
   Uses           C R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R   NB  WC R    1   R   NB EB/ E1  WW
                    B                                                C-1
   Any industrial
   use which
   exceeds 50,000
   gallons of
1  water from the - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   aquifer in any
   one day or
   300,000 in any
   consecutive
   30-day period
   Asphalt or
2  bituminous     - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   mixing plant
   Automobile/
3  farm           - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   equipment/
   truck assembly
   Bakeries,
4  wholesale (up  - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   to 5,000 sq.
   ft.)
5  Barrel/box/bag - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   manufacturing
   Bio-diesel
   refinery (no
6  petroleum      - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   products added
   on-site)
   Boat building
   and repair
7  with or        - S  S  S   S  -  S  S  -   S   S  -    S   -   S  S   S    
   without marine
   railway*
   Boat/yacht
   interiors -
   new and
8  retrofit       - S  S  S   S  -  S  S  -   S   S  -    S   -   S  S   R    
   (fabrication
   and
   installation)
9  Borrow pit     - S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -   -   -  -    S   -   -  -   S    
   Brick/tile/
10 terra cotta    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   manufacturing
   Building
   component
11 manufacturing/ - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   assembly of
   modular homes
12 Bulk mailing   - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   services
   Cabinet-making
13 facility, up   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   to 10,000 sq.
   ft.
14 Cinderblock    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   manufacturing
   Clock and
   watch
   manufacture
15 and            - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   distribution
   (up to 5,000
   sq. ft.)
   Clothing
16 manufacturing  - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   S   -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   (up to 5,000
   sq. ft.)
   Communicati
17 ons equipment  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   S    
   manufacturing
   Concrete/con
18 crete products - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   manufacturing
   Contractor
   office/shop
   with material
   storage
19 enclosed or    - S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -   S   -  -    S   -   S  R   R    
   outdoors with
   opaque
   screening up
   to 5,000 sq.
   ft.
   Contractor
   office/shop
20 with material  - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  M/S R    
   storage
   outdoors,
   unscreened
21 Cotton gins    - R  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   Drafting
   equipment
22 manufacture    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  R   R    
   and
   distribution
23 Drop forge     - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   industry
   Drop-ship
24 center, up to  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   50,000 sq. ft.
   Electronic
25 appliance      - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   assembly
   Electronic
   components
26 manufacturing  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   (excluding
   transformers)
27 Ethanol        - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   production
   Farm equipment
28 sales, service - S  S  -   S  -  S  -  -   -   -  -    S   -   S  M/S R    
   and repair
   Fertilizer
29 blending and   - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   distribution
   Fertilizer/
30 pesticide bulk - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   storage for
   wholesale
   Foundry -        M/ M/     M/    M/ M/                         M/
31 artisan, up to - S  S  -   S  -  S  S  M/S M/S -  -    M/S -   S  M/S R    
   2,500 sq. ft.
   Foundry -
32 artisan, 2,500 - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   M/S  
   - 10,000 sq.
   ft.
   Furniture
33 manufacturing, - M/ M/ -   M/ -  M/ M/ -   M/S -  -    M/S -   M/ M/S R    
   up to 2,500      S  S      S     S  S                          S
   sq. ft.
   Furniture
34 manufacturing, - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   2,500 - 10,000
   sq. ft.
   Glass works
35 and ceramics - - M/ M/ -   M/ -  R  M/ -   R   -  -    M/S -   R  R   -    
   artisan, up to   S  S      S        S
   2,500 sq. ft.
   Glass works
   and ceramics -
36 artisan, 2,500 - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   - 10,000 sq.
   ft.
   Heavy
37 equipment      - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   sales and
   service
38 Industrial     - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   S  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   trade school
   Jewelry
39 assembly -     - M/ M/ -   M/ M/ R  M/ M/S R   -  -    M/S M/S M/ R   -    
   artisan, up to   S  S      S  S     S                          S
   2,500 sq. ft.
   Jewelry
   assembly -                       M/                            M/
40 artisan, 2,500 - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   M/S -  -    -   -   S  M/S R    
   - 5,000 sq.
   ft.
   Labs and test
41 facilities for - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   S  S   M/S  
   manufacturing,
   enclosed
   Landscape
   contractor -                  M/ M/                            M/
42 design and     - R  R  M/S R  S  S  R  M/S M/S -  -    R   M/S S  R   R    
   maintenance
   on-site
   Landscape        M/
43 contractor -   - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   site work
   Machine shops,
44 tool and die   - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   operations
   Medical/
45 surgical       - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   instrument
   manufacturing
   Metal
46 fabrication    - S  S  -   -  -  S  -  -   S   -  -    -   -   S  S   S    
   and welding
   operations
   Microbrewery        M/           M/                            M/
47 (up to 5,000   - -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -   M/S -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   sq. ft.)
   Microbrewery
48 (5,000 -       - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   10,000 sq.
   ft.)
   Modular unit
49 manufacture    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   and assembly
   Multi-unit
   storage
50 facility, up   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   to 50,000 sq.
   ft.
   Musical
   instrument
51 manufacture    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   and
   distribution
   Optical
52 equipment      - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   manufacture
   Pallet
53 manufacture    - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   and repair
   facilities
54 Peanut dryer   - R  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   Petroleum
55 product bulk   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   storage for
   wholesale*
   Pharmaceutical
56 manufacturing  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   laboratories
   Plaster
   products
   manufactured
57 from           - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   previously
   prepared raw
   materials
   Pottery and
58 figurine       - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   manufacture
   Prefabrication
   of wooden        M/
59 buildings/     - S  S  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   garden sheds,
   etc.
   Printing,
60 lithography    - -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   S  R   R    
   establishments
   Processing of
61 bulk           - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   agricultural
   products
   Processing of
62 seafood        - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   products
   Railroad
63 freight        - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   terminals
   Reclamation of
   soil or water,
64 temporary -    R R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R  R    R   R   R  R   R    
   existing on-
   site only
   Recreational
   vehicle
65 retrofitting   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   R    
   and
   customizing
   Recycling
66 collection     - S  -  -   S  -  S  S  -   S   -  -    S   -   S  S   S    
   site up to 1
   acre
   Recycling
   receiving/
   transfer
   facilities for
67 plastic,       - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  S   S    
   glass, cans,
   paper,
   household
   waste
   Recycling /
   processing of
68 plastic,       - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   glass,
   aluminum or
   paper
69 Recycling yard - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   Sawmill/kiln/
70 planing        - S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   facility
71 Soap           - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   manufacturing
   Soybean crush
72 mills for oil  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   and meal
   production
   Storage of
73 bulk           - R  S  -   S  -  -  S  -   -   -  -    S   -   -  -   R    
   agricultural
   products
   Storage of
74 seafood        - R  S  M/S S  -  -  S  -   S   S  -    S   -   -  -   R    
   products
   Vehicle
   junkyard/
   graveyard with
75 parts          - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   recycling/
   sales/
   screened
   Warehouse, up
76 to 50,000 sq.  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   R    
   ft.
   Wood, cloth or
77 fiber product  - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   S    
   manufacture
                                                           
 
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category                   Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 5 -
 Marine-  C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB CG/EB/ C-1 E1 WW
 Related
 Uses
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
   Category 5 -              Village  Waterfront Village  Town Edge
   Marine-         A/ H/ WH/                         ECC/            CG/
   Related Uses C  R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R   NB  WC  R    1   R   NB EB/ E1  WW
                   B                                                 C-1
   Aquaculture
1  business     M/ R  R  R   R  -  R  R  -   R   R   M/S  R   -   -  -   -    
   office, on-  S
   site
   Aquaculture,
   fish         M/    M/        M/ M/                             M/
2  production   S  R  S  M/S R  S  S  R  M/S M/S M/S M/S  R   M/S S  M/S M/S  
   in existing
   ponds*
   Aquaculture,
3  fish         M/ R  S  -   S  -  -  S  -   -   M/S -    S   -   -  M/S R    
   production   S
   tanks
   Aquaculture  M/           M/       M/                          M/
4  research     S  R  -  M/S S  -  -  S  M/S M/S M/S M/S  M/S -   S  M/S R    
   facility
   Aquaculture,
5  shellfish    M/ R  M/ M/S M/ -  M/ M/ M/S M/S M/S M/S  M/S M/S M/ M/S R    
   seed         S     S      S     S  S                           S
   production
   Beaches,
6  public       R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  S   S   -   S    S   S   S  S   -    
   naturally
   occurring
   Boat
   building and
7  repair with  -  S  S  S   S  -  S  S  -   S   S   -    S   -   S  S   R    
   or without
   marine
   railway*
   Boat ramp
   for
8  recreational R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   -    
   boats,
   private
   Boat ramp
   for
   recreational
   boats public
9  /commercial* S  S  S  S   S  -  S  S  S   S   S   S    S   S   S  S   -    
   with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Boat rental
   with         M/
10 accessory    S  -  -  S   -  -  S  -  -   S   M/S -    -   -   S  R   R    
   goods/
   services
11 Boat sales/  -  -  -  S   -  -  S  -  -   S   M/S -    -   -   S  R   R    
   service
   Clam packing
12 houses (with S  R  S  M/S R  -  M/ R  -   R   R   -    R   -   R  R   R    
   no                              S
   processing)
13 Crab packing S  M/ S  M/S S  -  S  S  -   M/S R   -    S   -   S  R   R    
   houses          S
   Crab                         M/
14 shedding,    S  R  R  R   R  S  R  R  M/S R   R   M/S  R   M/S R  R   R    
   enclosed
   Crab               M/           M/                             M/
15 shedding,    S  R  S  R   R  -  S  R  M/S R   R   M/S  R   M/S S  M/S R    
   not enclosed
   Docks,
16 private      R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   -    
   recreational
   Dredge spoil
   disposal
17 site (from   S  S  -  -   -  -  -  S  -   -   -   -    S   -   -  -   S    
   local
   waters)
   Erosion and
18 storm water  R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R    
   control
   devices
   Fish packing
19 houses (with R  R  S  M/S M/ -  M/ M/ -   M/S R   -    M/S -   M/ R   R    
   no                        S     S  S                           S
   processing)
20 Hunting      R  R  -  R   R  -  -  R  -   -   -   -    R   -   -  -   -    
   blinds*
   Landing site
   for finfish,    M/ M/           M/ M/
21 shellfish,   S  S  S  M/S -  -  S  S  -   R   R   S    S   -   S  R   R    
   crabs -
   commercial
   Landing site
   for finfish,       M/
22 shellfish,   R  R  S  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R    
   crabs -
   private
   Marina, 50
   slips or
23 more, public -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -    
   or
   commercial*
   Marina, less
   than 50
24 slips,       -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   S   S   S    -   -   S  S   S    
   public or
   commercial*
   Marine
25 navigation   R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R    
   aids
   Non-
   motorized
26 watercraft - M/ M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ R  M/ M/S R   M/S M/S  M/S M/S R  R   R    
   instruction  S  S  S      S  S     S
   rental,
   sales
   Oyster
   shucking           M/           M/
27 houses (with S  R  S  R   R  -  S  R  -   R   R   -    S   -   R  R   R    
   no
   processing)
   Pot
   production
   for crab or
28 eel pots,    -  M/ M/ M/S M/ -  R  M/ -   R   R   -    M/S -   R  R   R    
   commercial      S  S      S        S
   (up to 1
   acre incl.
   storage)
   Pot
   production
29 for crab or  R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R    
   eel pots,
   private
   Research
30 facilities   S  S  S  S   S  -  M/ S  -   M/S S   -    S   -   S  S   R    
   for marine                      S
   sciences
   Retail sales
   of clam,
   crab, fish
   (less than      M/ M/     M/       M/
31 2,500 sq.    -  S  S  M/S S  -  R  S  -   R   R   -    R   -   R  R   -    
   ft.) with
   accessory
   goods/servic
   es
   Wholesale
   outlet for
32 clam, crab,  -  M/ R  R   R  -  R  R  -   R   R   -    R   -   R  R   R    
   fish, less      S
   than 2,500
   sq. ft.
   Wholesale
   outlet for
   unprocessed                     M/                             M/
33 clam, crab,  -  R  -  M/S R  -  S  R  -   M/S R   -    -   -   S  R   R    
   fish, 2,500
   - 5,000 sq.
   ft.
   Wildlife/
34 marine life  R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R    
   preservation
   area*
                                                           
 
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category 6 -                   Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 Recreational C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB CG/EB/ E1 WW
 Uses                                                             C-1
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
                             Village  Waterfront        Town Edge
   Category 6 -                       Village
   Recreational    A/ H/ WH/                       ECC/            CG/
   Uses         C  R  R  R   1  R  NB 1  R  NB WC  R    1   R   NB EB/   E1  WW
                   B                                               C-1
   Archery
   range,
   outdoor,        M/        M/       M/
1  with         -  S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    M/S -   -  -     R    
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Archery
   range,
   indoor (up
2  to 5,000 sq. -  R  -  -   M/ -  M/ M/ -  M/ -   -    M/S -   M/ R     R    
   ft.) with                 S     S  S     S                   S
   accessory
   goods/
   services
3  Athletic     -  S  S  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  -   S    S   -   S  S     S    
   fields
   Athletic
4  fields, with -  S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    S   -   -  -     S    
   structures
5  ATV trails - -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -     -    
   commercial
6  Batting cage -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  S     R    
   Boat ramp
   for
7  recreational R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R     -    
   boats,
   private*
   Boat ramp
   for
8  recreational S  S  S  S   -  S  S  S  S  S  S   S    S   S   S  S     -    
   boats,
   public/
   commercial*
   Boat storage
9  and washing  -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  S   -    -   -   S  S     R    
   facilities
   Bowling
   alley with
10 accessory    -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R     R    
   goods/
   services
   Camper/RV
   storage with
11 washing      -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  S     R    
   facilities,
   screened
   Corn mazes
   with
12 accessory    -  R  R  -   R  -  -  R  -  -  -   -    R   -   -  -     -    
   goods/
   services
   Country
13 clubs, not   -  S  S  -   S  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    S   -   S  R     -    
   including
   golf courses
   Dance halls     M/ M/     M/    M/ M/    M/                  M/
14 (up to 3,000 -  S  S  M/S S  -  S  S  -  S  -   M/S  M/S -   S  R     M/S  
   sq. ft).*
   Dance halls
15 (3,000 -     -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R     R    
   5,000 sq.
   ft.)*
16 Day camp     -  S  S  -   S  S  S  S  S  S  -   -    S   S   S  S     -    
   Docks,
17 private      R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R     R    
   recreational
   Firing
18 range,       -  S  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  S     R    
   indoor
   Firing
   range,
   outdoor -
   including       M/
19 skeet, trap, -  S  -  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -     -    
   sporting
   clays,
   shotguns,
   etc.
   Firing
   range,
   outdoor -
20 rifles,      -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -     -    
   including
   semi-
   automatic
   and handguns
   Fishing
   pier,
   commercial
21 or public,   S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S    S   S   S  S     R    
   with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Game center,                                                 M/
22 coin-        -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   S  R     -    
   operated
23 Go-kart      -  S  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -     S    
   tracks*
   Golf course,
   public,
   private or
24 commercial,  -  S  -  -   S  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    S   -   -  -     -    
   with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Golf driving
   range,
   daylight        M/        M/
25 only, with   -  S  -  -   S  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    M/S -   -  M/S   R    
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Golf -
   miniature*
26 with         -  -  -  -   M/ -  M/ -  -  M/ -   -    -   -   M/ R     -    
   accessory                 S     S        S                   S
   goods/
   services
   Guide/
   outfitt er
   services     M/ M/ M/     M/       M/ M/
27 with         S  S  S  M/S S  -  R  S  S  R  S   -    M/S M/S R  R     R    
   accessory
   goods/
   services
28 Hayrides,    -  R  R  -   R  -  R  R  -  -  -   -    R   -   -  -     -    
   commercial
   Health club/
   fitness
   center/day
29 spa* with    -  -  -  -   -  -  R  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   R  R     -    
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Horse barn,
30 private*     -  R  M/ M/S R  -  M/ R  M/ M/ -   -    R   M/S M/ M/S   -    
   (one per           S            S     S  S                   S
   acre)
   Horse
   boarding/
   training,
31 commercial*  -  R  S  -   S  -  -  S  -  -  -   -    S   -   -  -     -    
   with
   accessory
   goods/
   services
   Hunt clubs/
   lodges,
32 commercial,  -  M/ S  -   S  -  S  S  -  S  -   -    S   -   S  S     -    
   no hunting      S
   grounds on-
   site
33 Hunting      R  R  -  R   R  -  -  R  -  -  -   -    R   -   -  -     -    
   blinds*
   Marina, 50
   slips or
34 more, public -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -     -    
   or
   commercial*
   Marina, less
   than 50
35 slips,       -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  S  S   S    -   -   S  S     S    
   public or
   commercial*
   Non-
36 motorized    S  S  S  S   S  -  S  S  S  S  S   S    S   S   S  S     S    
   recreational
   trail
   Non-motoriz
   ed
37 watercraft - M/ M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/ M/S M/S  M/S M/S R  R     R    
   instruction  S  S  S      S  S  S  S  S  S
   rental,
   sales*
   Paintball                 M/          M/
38 course,      S  R  -  -   S  -  -  -  S  -  -   -    M/S -   R  R     R    
   outdoor
39 Parks -      -  S  S  S   S  -  S  S  S  S  S   S    S   S   S  S     -    
   public
40 Playgrounds  -  M/ R  M/S M/ -  R  M/ M/ R  -   M/S  M/S R   R  S     -    
   for children    S         S        S  S
   Ponds within                                                    R
41 existing     -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  (EB/  -    
   campgrounds                                                     C- 1
                                                                   only)
   Pool hall/                                                   M/
42 billiard     -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   S    -   -   S  R     -    
   room*
   Skating
43 rink, ice/   -  -  -  -   -  -  S  -  -  -  -   -    -   -   -  R     R    
   roller*
   Swimming
44 pools,       -  S  S  -   S  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R     R    
   public or
   commercial
   Temporary
   recreational
   event (3
   days or
   less); e.g.,
45 carnival,    R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R  -  R   R    R   R   R  R     -    
   ballooning,
   bungee
   jumping,
   tractor
   pulls, etc.
   Tennis
46 courts,      -  R  R  R   R  -  R  R  R  R  -   R    R   R   R  R     -    
   private
   Tennis
47 courts,      -  S  S  -   S  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R     R    
   public or
   commercial
   Theater,
   indoor
48 screen/stage -  -  S  -   -  -  S  -  -  S  -   -    -   -   S  R     R    
   up to 5,000
   sq. ft.*
   Wildlife or
49 marine life  R  R  R  R   R  -  R  R  R  R  R   R    R   R   R  R     R    
   preservation
   area*
                                                           
 
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category 7                    Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 SF -
 Single-                                                         CG/EB/
 Family      C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB C-1    E1 WW
 Residential
 Uses
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
   Category 7 SF              Village  Waterfront Village  Town Edge
   - Single-        A/                                                CG/
   Family        C  R  H/ WH/ 1  R  NB 1  R   NB  WC  ECC/ 1   R   NB EB/ E1 WW
   Residential      B  R  R                           R               C-1
   Uses
   Principal SF
1  detached                                                  
   dwelling unit
  a. On-site    R  R  R  R   R  R  M/ R  R   M/S -   R    R   R   R  -   -   
   construction                     S
   b.
   Manufactured,       M/     M/ M/    M/
  single-wide   R  R  S  M/S S  S  -  S  M/S -   -   M/S  M/S -   -  -   -   
   H.U.D.
   inspected
   c.
   Manufactured,
  double or     R  R  R  R   R  R  -  R  R   -   -   M/S  R   R   -  -   -   
   triple-wide
   H.U.D.
   inspected
   d.
   Manufactured,                    M/                             M/
  modular       R  R  R  R   R  R  S  R  R   M/S -   R    R   R   S  -   -   
   V.D.H.C.D.
   inspected
   Principal SF
   attached
   dwelling
2  units - with                                              
   each unit
   under fee
   simple
   ownership
   a. Townhouse,
  row house or  -  -  -  -   -  S  -  -  S   -   -   -    -   S   S  -   -   
   side by side
  b. Duplex     -  -  M/ -   -  M/ -  -  M/S -   -   -    -   M/S M/ -   -   
                       S         S                                 S
   Principal SF
   detached      M/ M/ M/     M/       M/
3  rural         S  S  S  M/S S  -  -  S  -   -   -   -    -   -   -  -   -   
   farmstead
   dwelling unit
   Accessory SF
4  detached                                                  
   dwelling unit
  a. On-site    S  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ M/ M/ M/S -   -   M/S  M/S M/S M/ -   -   
   construction     S  S      S  S  S  S                           S
   b.
   Manufactured,    M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/                          M/
  single-wide   S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  M/S -   -   M/S  M/S M/S S  -   -   
   H.U.D.
   inspected
   c.
   Manufactured,
  double or     S  M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ M/ M/ M/S -   -   M/S  M/S M/S M/ -   -   
   triple-wide      S  S      S  S  S  S                           S
   H.U.D.
   inspected
   d.
   Manufactured,    M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/                          M/
  modular       S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  M/S -   -   M/S  M/S M/S S  -   -   
   V.D.H.C.D.
   inspected
   Accessory SF     M/ M/     M/ M/ M/ M/                          M/
5  attached      S  S  S  M/S S  S  S  S  M/S M/S -   M/S  M/S M/S S  -   -   
   dwelling unit
   Accessory
   uses and
6  structures    R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R   
   (excluding
   guesthouses)
   **
   Guesthouses
   (meeting
   primary
7  setbacks and  M/ M/ M/ M/S M/ M/ M/ M/ M/S M/S -   M/S  M/S M/S M/ -   -   
   clearly       S  S  S      S  S  S  S                           S
   subordinate
   to primary
   structure)
   Temporary SF
   detached
   dwelling unit
8  -             R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R   
   manufactured
   , single-wide
   HUD inspected
   Temporary
9  emergency     R  R  R  R   R  R  R  R  R   R   R   R    R   R   R  R   R   
   dwelling
   Combination
   live-work
10 unit w/       -  M/ M/ M/S M/ -  R  M/ -   R   M/S -    M/S M/S M/ M/S -   
   allowable        S  S      S        S                           S
   business/com
   mercial use
11 Residential   R  R  R  R   R  R  M/ R  R   M/S -   R    R   R   R  -   -   
   Facility                         S
                                                           
 
 APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
 Category 7
 MF -Multi-
 Family                        Village Waterfront Village Town Edge
 Residential
 Uses
             C A/R B H/R WH/ R 1 R NB  1 R NB WC ECC/ R   1 R NB CG/EB/ E1 WW
                                                                 C-1
   APPENDIX A: USE REGULATIONS
   Category 7
   MF -Multi-
   Family                   Village    Waterfront Village  Town Edge
   Residential
   Uses
                  A/ H/ WH/                           ECC/            CG/
                C R  R  R   1  R   NB  1   R   NB  WC R    1   R   NB EB/ E1 WW
                  B                                                   C-1
   Principal MF
   attached
1  dwelling     - -  S  -   -  S   -   -   S   -   -  -    -   S   S  S   -   
   units -
   apartment
   Principal MF
   attached
   dwelling
2  units - with                                              
   each unit
   not under
   fee simple
   ownership
   a.
  Townhouse,   - -  -  -   -  S   -   -   S   -   -  -    -   S   S  -   -   
   row house or
   side by side
  b. Duplex    - M/ M/ -   M/ M/S -   -   M/S -   -  -    M/S M/S M/ -   -   
                  S  S      S                                      S
   Accessory
3  uses and     - R  R  R   R  R   R   R   R   R   R  R    R   R   R  R   R   
   structures**
   Temporary
4  emergency    - R  R  R   R  R   R   R   R   R   R  R    R   R   R  R   R   
   dwelling
   Housing for
   migrant farm
   workers in
5  association  - M/ -  -   M/ -   -   M/S -   -   -  -    S   -   -  -   -   
   with a         S         S
   seasonal
   farming
   operation
   Worker
   housing - up
   to and
6  including 12 - S  -  -   S  -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -   -   -  -   -   
   occupants,
   employer
   furnished
   Housing for
   students,
   faculty and
7  staff in     - S  S  S   S  S   -   S   S   -   -  -    S   S   S  S   -   
   association
   with a
   learning
   institute
   Mixed-use
   structure,
   residential/
   commercial,
8  up to 4      - -  S  S   -  -   S   -   -   S   -  -    -   -   S  S   -   
   single-
   family
   dwelling
   units
9  Group homes                                               
   a. Respite
  care service - S  S  S   S  S   S   S   S   S   -  S    S   S   S  -   -   
   facility
   b.
  Retirement   - S  S  S   S  S   S   S   S   S   -  S    S   S   S  -   -   
   home
   c.
   Supervised
  living       - -  S  -   -  -   S   -   -   S   -  -    -   -   -  R   -   
   residential
   service
   facility
10 Shared       - M/ M/ M/S M/ M/S M/S -   M/S M/S -  -    M/S M/S -  -   -   
   senior home    S  S      S
                                                           
 
R - By Right S - Special Use Permit M/S - Minor Special Use Permit E - Exempt
from Zoning Clearance
* Appears in more than one category.
** must be in rear yards
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-2017;
Am. Ord. passed 2-3-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-9-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-02,
passed 4-9-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-11-2020; Am. Ord. passed 5-10-2022;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2024)
APPENDIX B: DENSITIES, LOT SIZES AND DIMENSIONS
CLICK_TO_VIEW_TABLE_AS_PDF_IMAGE
APPENDIX B: DENSITIES, LOT SIZES AND DIMENSIONS                                                            
ZONING                      Village        Waterfront Village            Town Edge                     
DISTRICT   C    A/RB  H/R  WH/R V-1  V- R NB   WV-1 WV-  WV-  WV-WC     ECC/ TE-1 TE-  TE-  TE-  E1   EB/  WW
                                                    R    NB             R         R    NB   CG        C-1
Maximum
density (#
dwelling   1:50 1:201 2:1  2:1  1:20 2:12 2:12 1:20 2:1  2:1  None      2:1  1:5  1:23 1:23 None None None  
units per
# acres)
Minimum    1    1     1/   1/   1    1/   1/   1    1/   1/             1/   1    1    1/
lot size   acre acre4 2    2    acre 2    2    acre 2    2    None      2    acre acre 2    None None None  
                      acre acre      acre acre      acre acre           acre           acre
Minimum
lot width                                                                                 
in feet
at:
Measured
at the
building/  150  125   100  100  125  100  P/   125  100  P/   P/none    90   125  100  None None None None  
front                                     none           none
setback
line
                                                              250
Measured                                                      (water
at the     250  250   250  250  250  250  250  250  250  250  dependent 250  None None None None 250  None  
shoreline                                                     uses
                                                              only, 60)
Minimum
yard                                                                                      
dimensions
in feet:
Front Yard                                                                                
Setback
All
structures
measured
from the   100  100   100  n/a  100  100  100  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a       n/a  100  100  100  100  100  100   
property
line on
U.S. Rt.
13
All
structures
measured                                                      P/60
from the                                                      (water
right-of-  200  60    P/60 P/60 80   P/60 P/60 P/80 P/60 P/10 dependent P/20 60   60   60   100  100  100   
way of all                                                    uses                               7
other                                                         only, 10)
roads and
railroads
7
Rear Yard                                                                                 
Setback
                                                              20 (water
Principal  100  25    25   25   50   25   206  50   25   206  dependent 20   50   25   206  356  356  356   
structures                                                    uses
                                                              only, 0)6
                                                              5 (water
Accessory  20   10    5    5    10   5    56   10   5    56   dependent 5    10   5    56   206  206  206   
structures                                                    uses
                                                              only, 0)6
Side Yard                                                                                 
Setback
Allowable
principal
attached
structures
measured   0    0     0    0    0    0    0    0    0    06   0         0    0    0    0    0    0    0     
from
shared
property
lines
                                                              20 (water
All other                                                     dependent
principal  50   15    15   15   25   10   156  25   10   156  uses      105  25   10   156  256  256  256   
structures                                                    only,
                                                              10)6
                                                              20 (water
Accessory                                                     dependent
structures 10   10    5    5    10   5    56   10   5    56   uses      5    10   5    56   156  156  156   
                                                              only,
                                                              10)6
Maximum
height in                                                                                 
feet:6
Principal  35   35    35   35   35   35   35   35   35   35   35        25   35   35   35   35   45   35    
structures
Accessory  25   25    25   25   25   20   20   25   20   20   25        16   25   16   20   25   30   25    
structures
                                                                                         
1 Density may be increased to 1:10 under open space density bonus option; 85% open space required; max.
2 With SUP, density may be increased to 4:1 for multi-family if one-site sewage and water supply systems are
approved by the Health Department.
3 Through rezoning to TE/R or TE-NB, density may be increased to 5:1 if central water and sewer owned and
operated by a municipality, county or public service authority are provided; setbacks may be modified.
4 Minimum lot size may be reduced to 30,000 sq. ft. under open space density bonus option.
5 In the case of zero lot line development or a shared lot line, a 20-ft. setback shall be observed on the
other.
6 If a lot is zoned NB, WV-NB, WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW abuts a lot that is zoned NB, WV-NB,
WV-WC, TE-NB, TE-CG, EI, EB, C-1 or WW, the side and / or rear minimum setback shall be reduced to 0 feet
pursuant to §154.2.141 General Modification to Yard Regulations.
7 P/x = Prevailing, if one exists, otherwise number indicated. See § 154.2.142, Front Setback/Yard
Regulations. Front setback from railroad right-of-way in E1 District is 0 feet.
Note: Supplemental setback regulations are stated in § 154.2.140 et seq., Supplemental District Regulations.
Note: All development requires Health Department approval.
 
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016 ; Amendment adopted 7-11-2017 )
APPENDIX C: MEASURING STANDARD SETBACKS AND RESOURCE PROTECTION AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2195.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2197.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2199.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2201.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b742b2175a9760bb9b44d62ff63c0ba4bf88f103/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2203.jpg]
Department of Environmental Quality guidance document links.
Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act Guidance at:
http://www.deq.virginia.gov/Programs/Water/LawsRegulationsGuidance/Guidance/
StormwaterManagementG uidance.aspx
1.   Administrative Procedures for the Designation and Refinement of Chesapeake
Bay Preservation Area Boundaries
2.   Determinations of Water Bodies with Perennial Flow
3.   Exceptions
4.   Nonconforming Structures and Uses
5.   Resource Protection Area: Buffer Area Encroachments
6.   Resource Protection Area: Onsite Buffer Area Delineation
7.   Resource Protection Areas: Nontidal Wetlands
8.   Resource Protection Areas: Permitted Development Activities
9.   Riparian Buffers Modification & Mitigation Guidance Manual
10.   Silvicultural Operations and the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016)
APPENDIX D: 2000 ZONING ORDINANCE
   Appendix_D, 2000 Zoning Ordinance, of the 2016 Zoning Ordinance (passed
April 12, 2016), is adopted and incorporated as part of this Chapter 154.2 as
fully as if set out at length herein. Copies can be obtained from the county
offices or from the online code.
(Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-2023)
APPENDIX E: 1983 ZONING ORDINANCE
   Appendix_E, 1983 Zoning Ordinance, of the 2016 Zoning Ordinance (passed
April 12, 2016), is adopted and incorporated as part of this Chapter 154.2 as
fully as if set out at length herein. Copies can be obtained from the county
offices or from the online code.
CHAPTER 155: PURCHASE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS PROGRAM
Section
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Background and history
   
155.004   Definitions
   
155.005   Purchase of Development Rights (PDR) Program
   
155.006   Applicability
   
155.007   Eligibility criteria
   
155.008   PDR Committee established; powers and duties
   
155.009   Designation of Program Administrator; powers and duties
   
155.010   Application, evaluation and purchase offers
   
155.011   Nature of rights acquired
   
155.012   Conservation easement terms and conditions
   
155.013   Program procedures/ranking sheet
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Northampton County Purchase of
Development Rights Program."
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to further goals of Northampton County's
Comprehensive Plan for the protection of productive farmland and associated
forest lands, groundwater recharge areas and surface water, as a foundation for
a strong rural community, a healthy environment and a thriving economy.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.003 BACKGROUND AND HISTORY.
   (A)   An important goal of the County Comprehensive Plan, adopted in 2001,
is to "Ensure the preservation and development of progressive alternative and
environmentally compatible agriculture and related industries as important
components of Northampton County." The Plan's implementation strategies also
include a mandate to "Support programs and efforts to protect the county's
prime agricultural lands from conversion to non-compatible land uses."
   (B)   In support of these goals, the County Board of Supervisors endorsed
the development of a Purchase of Development Rights (PDR) Program through its
approval of the Delmarva Conservation Corridor Plan in April 2003. It was the
Board's charge that:
      (1)   The PDR Program be a strictly voluntary program, designed to
benefit the county, its citizens and landowners.
      (2)   The procedure and standards for determining which sites to purchase
be equitable and transparent.
      (3)   Public and private funding (including donated value) be leveraged
to the maximum extent possible for purchases of development rights under this
program.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE. For the purpose of this PDR Program, includes real estate
devoted to agricultural and horticultural use. The following is a list of
qualifying activities: production for sale of plants and animals useful to man,
or devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for payments or
other compensation pursuant to a soil conservation program under an agreement
with an agency of the federal government; production for sale of fruits, nuts,
berries, vegetables, nursery and floral products. Land producing sod, feed
grains or hay also qualifies as agricultural.
   A/RB AGRICULTURAL ZONE. Permits density of housing units as currently
defined in the county's zoning chapter.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A land use category which includes barrier islands,
tidal marshes, and designated upland conservation areas such as the ES National
Wildlife Refuge, state park, and state natural areas.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A voluntary legal arrangement between the owner of a
property and a non-profit organization or government agency endorsed by the
County Board of Supervisors, in which the owner agrees to restrict future uses
of the land in perpetuity. The easement document specifies the rights of holder
to monitor and enforce the agreement and records the restrictions on land use.
Subsequent owners must comply with the provisions of the easement.
   DELMARVA CONSERVATION CORRIDOR PLAN. A multi-state demonstration program
adopted in June 2003 with a goal of preserving farmland and habitat.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. An interest in real property established under a
Purchase of Development Rights Program which is made severable from the parcel
and which may be sold or donated as provided for in a PDR Program.
   PURCHASE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (PDR) PROGRAM. A comprehensive program
providing for the establishment and purchase of development rights. The program
established by this chapter includes most of the components suggested in the
Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Model PDR Program 2003
guidance.
   VALUE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. Difference between the value of the property at
its highest and best use under current zoning and its value if it continues in
its current use, as determined by a professional appraiser with training in
valuing conservation easements.
   VIOLATIONS. Defined in Northampton County Code or other state or federal
regulations applicable to activities on agricultural or forest land.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.005 PURCHASE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (PDR) PROGRAM.
   There is hereby established a Purchase of Development Rights Program for
Northampton County by which the county can acquire, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and to the extent of available funding, the
development rights on eligible parcels of farmland located in A/RB or
Conservation Districts. The acquisition of development rights shall be
accomplished by the purchase of conservation easements upon such parcels.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.006 APPLICABILITY.
   The PDR Program shall be available for all qualifying lands in the county,
except those lands under the ownership or control of the United States of
America, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Any conservation easement acquired pursuant to this chapter shall be
voluntarily offered by the owner. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
a limitation upon the county's authority to acquire land for public purposes
other than those set forth in this chapter. Participation in this program is
subject to the conditions described in §
155.007 and the current Northampton County PDR Program Procedures as adopted by
the County Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.007 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
   (A)   Purchase of development rights may be considered only on properties
which meet all of the following criteria:
      (1)   At least 50% of the tract's soils are prime agricultural soils
(Bojac or Munden) based on the most recent soil maps used by the County's
Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   The tract is located in either the A/RB Agriculture or the
Conservation Zoning District and is in the Agriculture/Forest Land Use Area as
mapped on the Future Land Use and Development Map in the County's Comprehensive
Plan.
      (3)   There must be no existing violations on the easement parcel.
Applicants found to have violations may reapply after these are satisfactorily
resolved.
      (4)   A permanent conservation easement will apply to the entire parcel
of land on which development rights are being donated or sold.
   (B)   Tracts which meet the minimum criteria will be scored and ranked to
develop a priority list for purchase as funds become available. A description
of the ranking process and factors are contained in the current Northampton
County PDR Program Procedures.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.008 PDR COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment. The PDR Committee is hereby established, as follows:
      (1)   The Committee shall consist of five or more members appointed by
the County Board of Supervisors. Each member shall be either a property owner
in the county, or a member of a conservation easement holding agency and
conservation organization or both. Committee members should have expertise in
one or more of the following fields: land and water conservation or management,
farming, forestry, horticulture, conservation biology, and planning.
      (2)   The initial terms of the members shall be as follows: one-third
serves for three years; one- third serves for two years; and the serve for one
year. After the initial term, each term runs three years.
      (3)   The members of the Committee shall serve without pay, but the Board
may, in its discretion, reimburse members for actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of his/her duties.
      (4)   The Committee shall elect a Chairman, Vice-chairman and Secretary
at its first meeting each calendar year. The Secretary need not be a member of
the Committee.
      (5)   The Board will appoint a non-voting technical advisor with
agricultural experience.
      (6)   The PDR Program Administrator shall be an ex officio member of the
Committee.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The PDR Committee shall have the powers and duties
to:
      (1)   Help the PDR Program Administrator promote the program to the
public and county landowners.
      (2)   Review the ranked applications and supporting documentation and
approve each pool of properties recommended to the Board of Supervisors for
purchase of development rights. A majority of the members is required for
approval. Evaluations and calculation of scores for each parcel will be
conducted according to the current Northampton County PDR Program Procedures.
Assignment of points will be done by county staff.
      (3)   Annually review the program's eligibility and ranking criteria and
recommend to the Administrator any changes needed to maintain the program's
consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, or to improve the administration,
implementation and effectiveness of the program.
      (4)   Establish procedures for the conduct of Committee meetings.
      (5)   Determine standard provisions and restrictions for deed easements.
      (6)   Members of the Committee will abstain from reviewing or ranking any
parcel in which he or she has a financial interest.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.009 DESIGNATION OF PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Designation. The PDR Program Administrator shall be appointed by the
County Board of Supervisors.
   (B)    Powers and duties. The Administrator shall work with the PDR
Committee to ensure the following tasks are completed by the appropriate
parties:
      (1)   Maintain reasonable and standard procedures, guidance, and forms
for the administration and implementation of the program.
      (2)   Provide staff support to the PDR Committee and the County Board of
Supervisors.
      (3)   Coordinate the evaluation of all applications to determine their
eligibility and ranking score and insure that all ranking determinations are
made by qualified individuals with appropriate technical certifications or
credentials.
      (4)   Provide ranked applications and supporting information to the PDR
Committee.
      (5)   Negotiate conservation easement terms with landowners offering to
sell development rights.
      (6)   Coordinate with landowner on appraisal to determine value of
easement.
      (7)   Present the Committee's recommended pool of properties for purchase
of development rights to the Board of Supervisors.
      (8)   Prior to each offer to purchase, verify the price of each easement
and the percentage of total value donated.
      (9)   Identify possible county, state, federal and private resources
available to fund the program. Maximize the number of parcels and acres in the
program by fully utilizing and leveraging those sources.
      (10)   In cooperation with the PDR Committee, publicize the benefits of
the program and provide information to landowners to help them evaluate
opportunities from sale and/or donation of development rights.
      (11)   For each conservation easement accepted into the program,
establish baseline data, terms and conditions of the easement, and a monitoring
plan. Verify that the easement is accurately recorded on the deed and on zoning
plats.
      (12)   Ensure that the monitoring program is implemented through
regularly scheduled inspections.
      (13)   Establish a procedure for correcting easement violations and
initiate enforcement actions as required.
      (14)   Develop annual program budgets for pre- and post-acquisition costs
associated with screening, evaluating, appraising, acquiring and monitoring
easements. Maintain records on the expenditures associated with the program and
develop a range of cost estimates for possible enforcement actions.
      (15)   Coordinate with county planning staff to prepare an annual report
which shows the parcels of land protected through PDR and other easements in
order to determine the effectiveness of the program and suggest changes in
procedures.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.010 APPLICATION; EVALUATION AND PURCHASE OFFERS.
   Applicants are encouraged to review the application process, evaluation and
ranking criteria, and other program information contained in the current
Northampton PDR Program Procedures. Applications evaluated according to the
procedures described in this document will be ranked for purchase, subject to
the availability of funds. Recommendations for purchases will be made by the
PDR Committee and submitted to the County Board of Supervisors for approval.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.011 NATURE OF RIGHTS ACQUIRED.
   (A)   No interest in land other than a perpetual conservation easement shall
be acquired by the county pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and no
such interest shall be acquired by the exercise of the power of eminent domain.
   (B)   The acquisition of a conservation easement by the county shall not
extinguish any rights of the landowner except for the right to develop the
property for any use other than an agricultural use and shall not confer upon
the public any right of entry or access or any other rights, express or
implied.
   (C)   In order to ensure that land is being used in accordance with the
terms of the PDR agreement, an agent of the Purchase of Development Rights
Committee will make annual or bi-annual inspections of the property. These
inspections will be pre-arranged with the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.012 CONSERVATION EASEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Each conservation easement shall conform to the requirements of the Open-
Space Land Act of 1966 (VA Code §§ 10.1-1700 et seq.). The deed of easement
shall be in a form approved by the County Attorney and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following provisions:
   (A)   Restriction on new dwellings. The maximum density, footprint and
location of new dwellings shall be determined on a case-by-case basis with the
Virginia Outdoors Foundation.
   (B)   Conservation easement duration. A conservation easement acquired under
the terms of this chapter shall be perpetual. There are no provisions for
repurchase of these rights or future exchange of properties.
   (C)   Other restrictions. In addition to the foregoing, the parcel shall be
subject to standard restrictions contained in conservation easements pertaining
to uses and activities allowed on the parcel. These standard restrictions shall
be delineated in the deed of easement and shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, restrictions pertaining to: (i) accumulation of trash and junk;
(ii) display of billboards, signs and advertisements; (iii) blasting; (iv)
conduct of industrial or commercial activities on the parcel; and (v)
monitoring of the easement.
   (D)   Designation of easement holders. The Virginia Outdoors Foundation or
another public body as defined in VA Code § 10.1-1700, or an organization
eligible according to § 170(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, shall be the easement holder.
   (E)   Enforcement. The deed of easement shall provide that the rights
acquired by the Virginia Outdoors Foundation or other easement holder or by its
successor in interest by the deed of easement may be enforced in any lawful way
including but not limited to the assessment of damages and injunctive relief
and that the grantor of the easement or its successor in interest shall bear
the costs of litigation, including but not limited to attorney's fees, in any
case in which the grantor or its successor in interest is found to have
violated the terms of the easement.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11- 2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2007;
Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
§ 155.013 PROGRAM PROCEDURES/ RANKING SHEET.
   (A)   Application and evaluation procedure.
      (1)   The submission of an application to offer a conservation easement
for sale under the Purchase of Development Rights (PDR) program is not a
binding contractual offer to convey any interest in the landowner's property,
but shall be revocable at will by the landowner prior to the execution of an
option agreement or purchase agreement, without penalty. The following steps
describe the application process:
         (a)   Applicant obtains and reviews a package of information,
including application form and ranking factors (contained in division (D)
below).
         (b)   Applicant submits a complete application package with a non-
refundable processing fee no later than December 14. No incomplete applications
will be processed. A complete checklist of information and documents required
is contained in the application package. The following information or documents
are required to complete an application form:
            1.   County tax map and parcel number and the zoning designation of
the parcel;
            2.   Applicant's proof of ownership and acreage in production over
the past two years;
            3.   Copy of lease with a farm operator if land is rented;
            4.   Copies of any certified nutrient management plan(s),
conservation plan, and/or forestry plan;
            5.   Record of any existing conservation easements, or copy of
management plan for habitat (usually prepared/endorsed by a conservation
organization or agency), if any;
            6.   Other supporting documentation, including deeds or surveys;
            7.   Signature of all landowners if parcel has more than one owner;
            8.   Permission from the landowner for the following individuals to
enter the property, upon reasonable notice: the Program Administrator, an
independent appraiser, and other staff or technical specialists assigned to
evaluate or appraise the property.
      (2)   The following describes the process for evaluating and ranking
eligible parcels for purchase of development rights offers.
         (a)   The Program Administrator will coordinate the activities
required for determining the eligibility of parcels and ranking all
applications. A ranking form to facilitate this process is contained in
division (D) below.
         (b)   Some of the information needed to score the ranking factors can
be obtained from public records. Other information will be determined as
follows:
            1.   Acreages and distances to specified features will be
calculated using geographic information system databases maintained by USDA's
Farm Service Agency;
            2.   Verification of best management practices will be determined
through site visits conducted by the NRCS certified technical service providers
or other certified professionals designated by the PDR Committee;
            3.   Evaluation of habitat supporting threatened or endangered
species will be verified through Virginia Department of Natural Heritage
databases and staff;
            4.   The preliminary estimated value of development rights will be
determined by a land appraiser certified in appraising conservation easements.
         (c)   Prior to final score determination, owners will have the
opportunity to review the calculations and provide any missing information
which affects their score. The landowner will be informed of the ranking of
their land with regard to the score of the #1 ranked property to provide a
basis for the landowner to decide whether or not to continue to compete in the
PDR evaluation process. When the preliminary value has been documented, a
landowner must also submit what percentage of the development rights value, if
any, they wish to donate before a final score can be calculated.
         (d)   After a property receives a final score under the ranking
system, the complete evaluation and application will be presented to the PDR
Committee. The Committee may request an explanation of how a score was
determined by any of the agencies, departments, or independent entities
conducting the evaluation and scoring.
         (e)   After reviewing each scored application and documentation of the
evaluation, the Committee will approve the ranking that determines the order of
offers to purchase development rights. Based on the rankings, they will
recommend a pool of properties which the program manager will present to the
Board of Supervisors for decisions on funding.
         (f)   Up to six ranked parcels will comprise a pool of candidates for
each round of funding. The highest ranking property will be eligible for
purchase first if enough money is available for the entire tract. In the event
there are not sufficient funds to purchase the highest ranking property, the
Committee and landowner will endeavor to locate alternative sources of funds
for the purchase. After 18 months, if funding is still not available, the
Committee will decide if it is still viable to continue with this purchase or
move to an alternate property. All qualifying applications not selected will be
returned to the applicants to be updated and resubmitted in future rounds at
the landowner's discretion. Changes to the ranking process will only apply to
applications submitted in subsequent application rounds.
         (g)   If a reliable source of future funding is established, the PDR
Committee may allow purchase of development rights through a series of annual
payments.
   (B)   Calculation of the value of development rights.
      (1)   Calculation. The value of the development rights of any tract or
parcel is calculated by determining the fair market value of the property
subject to the existing zoning, easements or land use regulations, and
subtracting the value of the property without development rights and without
provision for repurchasing those rights or exchanging properties at a future
date.
         (a)   The specific terms of the easement agreement must be established
before the value of development rights can be calculated.
         (b)   The PDR Program Administrator shall arrange for an appraisal of
the property by an independent appraiser with experience in valuing
conservation easements for the county's option or purchase agreement.
         (c)   Completed appraisals shall be reviewed and approved by the PDR
Committee and the agency to which the easement will be conveyed.
   (C)   Purchase of development rights and establishment of conservation
easement.
      (1)   Purchase offer. The formal offer to purchase will be jointly made
to the landowner in writing by the prospective grantee of the easement and the
County Administrator after approval by the Board of Supervisors.
         (a)   The amount of the offer will be subject to available funding. It
shall be conditioned upon the absence of any defects in title or other
restrictions or encumbrances which may, in the opinion of the prospective
grantee's counselor the County Attorney, adversely affect either party's
interests in accomplishing the purposes of this chapter.
         (b)   The amount of each offer will be based upon the appraised value
of the conservation easement, adjusted by any portion of that value that will
be donated, if any, to the grantee. The offer shall include the purchase price,
a schedule of payments if they are to extend over several years, the proposed
deed of easement, and the date by which a written acceptance must be received
by the County Administrator.
         (c)   The Board of Supervisors may only approve purchase agreements
for which there is available funding, or option agreements contingent upon
funding becoming available based on priority rankings determined through the
evaluation process described herein and in division (D) below.
      (2)   Conservation easement. Once an offer to purchase a conservation
easement has been accepted by the landowner, the following actions will occur
to establish and record the conservation easement.
         (a)   The owner and an authorized representative(s) of the holder(s)
of the easement each sign the deed of easement.
         (b)   The deed shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County. A single conservation easement may be
established for more than one parcel under the same ownership.
         (c)   Within 30 days after the acquisition of development rights, the
Planning and Zoning Director shall note the acquisition and date thereof on the
official zoning map.
      (3)   Allocation of costs. The applicant shall pay the grantor's tax, if
any, and other costs, including: surveys (if required), recording costs, and
other charges associated with closing on properties for which an easement is
purchased. Additional costs for which applicant is responsible are: independent
appraisals or legal, financial, or other advice, or expenses or fees in
connection with the release and subordination of liens to the purchased
easement.
      (4)   Purchase offers not accepted. If an owner elects not to accept a
purchase offer, then the County Administrator may make an offer to purchase to
the owner(s) of the next highest prioritized parcel(s) remaining on the list of
parcels referred by the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Ranking factors for prioritizing Northhampton County parcels for
purchase of development rights.
Qualifying Factors Each tract must meet these qualifications
                   to be considered and ranked
Qualifying Factors                Each tract must meet these qualifications
                                  to be considered and ranked
Prime Agricultural Soils - Bojac  At least 50% of tract's soils must have these
or Munden (determination based on soil types.
2002 Soils Maps)
Located in A/RB or Conservation
District
No existing violations on tract   Applicants found to have violations may
                                  reapply after these are fixed.
Scored Factors                    Points       Clarification/Notes
Factors that affect Farmland Productivity (43 possible points)
Parcel size                    (circle one)
   50 - 99 acres               3
   100 - 199 acres             6
   200 - 299 acres             8
   300 or more acres           10
Percent of tract in pasture or
crop production (includes field   (circle one)
grown ornamentals and/or land
with greenhouses)
   50% or more                 4             
   60% or more                 6            Average over last three years.
   80% or more                 10
Proximity to unique commercial
(open to public) agricultural
support services (such as grain    
elevators, fertilizer or
agricultural chemical mixing and  (circle one)
distribution facilities, and
packing houses
   Within one mile             1
   Within 1/2 mile             2
   Contiguous                  3
 
Scored Factors Points Clarification/Notes
Scored Factors                                                                Points   Clarification/
                                                                                       Notes
Factors that affect Farmland Productivity (43 possible points)
Farm owner interest in farming                                                (circle
                                                                              one)
   Owner has at least a three year contract with farm operator/lessee      4
   Owner has financial interest in farm operation (examples: investment in 6
conservation practices, irrigation, drainage or share in a crop)
   Tract is farmed by owner or immediate family (father, mother, brother,  10
sister)
Proximity of tract to other farms with perpetual easements                    (circle
                                                                              one)
   Within one mile                                                         4
   Within 1/2 mile                                                         6
   Contiguous                                                              10
Land Management Factors for Sustainable Agriculture (21 possible points)
                                                                                       Field
                                                                              (circle  verification
BMPs and other conservation measures                                          each one by NRCS/SWCD
(add points for each practice verified and calculate total)                   that     or certified
                                                                              applies) technical
                                                                                       specialist
                                                                                       Capacity
                                                                                       exists to
                                                                                       irrigate at
                                                                                       least 50% of
                                                                                       cropland
                                                                                       (based on
   Irrigation                                                              2        average
                                                                                       rainfall). No
                                                                                       points unless
                                                                                       farm also has
                                                                                       adequate
                                                                                       collection of
                                                                                       runoff.
                                                                                       Use NRCS
                                                                                       methods to
   Collection of runoff                                                    2        calculate
                                                                                       adequate
                                                                                       retention
                                                                                       Plan
                                                                                       implemented in
   Certified Nutrient Management Program                                   3        last two years
                                                                                       by DCR
                                                                                       certified
                                                                                       evaluator
                                                                                       Verifiable
                                                                                       evidence of
                                                                                       good practice,
   Integrated pest management practices                                    2        including
                                                                                       scouting and
                                                                                       records of
                                                                                       pesticide use
                                                                                       Including
                                                                                       mulch, ridge-
                                                                                       till, no-till
   Conservation tillage practices                                          4        and strip
                                                                                       till, 60%
                                                                                       coverage for
                                                                                       past 2 of 3
                                                                                       years
                                                                                       Continuously
                                                                                       vegetated,
                                                                                       unbreeched,20
   Grass filter strips                                                     4        foot wide from
                                                                                       top edge of
                                                                                       ditch (field
                                                                                       side)
                                                                                       Continuous
   100 foot wide riparian buffer                                           4        along bank of
                                                                                       shoreline
 
Scored Factors Points Clarification/Notes
Scored Factors               Points                Clarification/Notes
Factors Protective of Drinking Water and Other Resources (27 possible points)
Groundwater recharge
protection acres within      (circle one)
recharge area
   50 - 99 acres          4
   100 - 199 acres        8
   200 - 299 acres        10
   300 or more acres      13
Proximity to non-farm
protected areas, including
state or federal parks,
wildlife refuges, wildlife   (circle one)
management areas or other
sensitive natural areas
identified in County
Comprehensive Plan
   Within one mile        2
   Within 1/2 mile        4
   Contiguous             6
                             (circle each one that
                             applies)
Includes or is adjacent to a 2
perennial stream
Contains a resource          2
protection area
Contains threatened or                             DCR Natural Heritage
endangered species or        2                     Database
natural heritage site
                                                   Habitat is part of
                                                   conservation easement
5% or more of tract has      2                     program or managed according
protection for habitat                             to a plan prepared by
                                                   conservation organization/
                                                   agency
Cost Effectiveness of Offer (5 points)
Percentage of development                          Values determined by
rights value donated         (circle one)          procedure established by PDR
                                                   program managing entity
   0 - 8%                 1
   9 - 16%                3
   17 - 25%               5
 
(Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2013)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Short title and authority
   
156.002   Definitions
   
156.003   Applicability
   
156.004   Rules of construction
   
156.005   Relation of chapter to other laws
   
156.006   Construction and severability of provisions
   
156.007   Chesapeake Bay preservation
   
156.008   Flood control, floodplain and subdivision suitability
   
156.009   Family subdivisions
   
156.010   Resubdivision same as subdivision
   
156.011   Vacation of recorded plat
   
156.012   Acts prohibited without complying with chapter
   
156.013   Exception to strict adherence
Administration
   
156.020   Subdivision agent
   
156.021   Powers and duties of agent
   
156.022   Fees
   
156.023   Enforcement and penalties
   
156.024   Appeal
   
156.025   Preparation and filing of subdivision ordinances; amendments thereto
Subdivision Approval Procedures
   
156.035   Determination of exemption from chapter
   
156.036   Subdivision preapplication procedure
   
156.037   Procedures applicable to all subdivision proposals
   
156.038   Procedures applicable to preliminary plats
   
156.039   Review and action upon preliminary plat by subdivision agent
   
156.040   Period of validity of approved preliminary plat
   
156.041   Period of validity of preliminary plat for phased subdivision
   
156.042   Procedure for record plats
   
156.043   Review and action upon record plat by subdivision agent
   
156.044   Period of validity of approved record plat
   
156.045   Recordation of record plat
   
156.046   Procedure for family subdivisions
   
156.047   Vacation of plats and boundary line adjustments
   
156.048   Disclosure and remediation of contamination and other adverse
environmental conditions of the property prior to approval of subdivision and
development plans
Subdivision Approval Submissions
   
156.060   Submissions for optional pre-application review
   
156.061   Formal application: all proposals
   
156.062   Additional requirements for phased subdivisions
Plats
   
156.070   Information and format for all plats
   
156.071   Contents of plat
   
156.072   Vacation of interests granted to the Board of Supervisors as
condition of site plan approval
Easements and Dedications
   
156.080   Dedication of roads, etc.
   
156.081   Easements for drainage
   
156.082   Easements for cable television and public service corporations
   
156.083   Effect of recordation of plat on dedications and certain easements
Required Improvements
   
156.095   Provisions applicable to all improvements
   
156.096   Roads
   
156.097   Standards for public roads, private roads and alleys
   
156.098   Cul-de-sacs and dead-end roads
   
156.099   Alleys
   
156.100   Principal means of access
   
156.101   Entrances to roads and highways
   
156.102   Drainage for roads
   
156.103   Traffic control signs and signalization
   
156.104   Signs identifying public and private road names
   
156.105   Storm water, drainage, flood control, best management practices
   
156.106   Stabilization of critical slopes or shoreline
   
156.107   Utilities
   
156.108   Monuments
   
156.109   Water and sewerage system
   
156.110   Fire protection
   
156.111   Maintenance of improvements
Completion of On-site Improvements and Surety
   
156.120   Completion of on-site improvements required prior to plat approval
   
156.121   Surety in lieu of completion of on-site improvements
   
156.122   Surety for maintenance of roads until accepted into state system
   
156.123   Release of surety
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 SHORT TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Ordinance
of Northampton County, Virginia" or as the "Subdivision Ordinance." The
Subdivision Ordinance is authorized pursuant to the provisions of VA Code §§
15.2-2240 et seq., as amended, and is intended to be used in conjunction with
the Northampton County Zoning Ordinance, Northampton County Code ("NCC") §§
154.001 et seq.; the Northampton County Comprehensive Plan; the Northampton
County Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance, NCC §§ 153.01 et seq.;
Northampton County Wetlands Ordinance, NCC §§ 151.01 et seq.; the Northampton
County Coastal Primary Sand Dune Ordinance, NCC §§ 152.01 et seq.; the
Northampton County Ordinance to Provide for the Assignment of Names to Roads
and Roads in Northampton County and the Posting of Road Signs and Building
Numbers, and other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Other definitions. All definitions in VA Code § 15.2-2201, as amended,
and in the Northampton County Code, including the Zoning Ordinance, are equally
applicable to this chapter. In the event of a difference, any definitions
herein shall take precedence over a definition in the Zoning Ordinance for the
purpose of this chapter, and any definitions herein shall take precedence over
a definition in the Code of Virginia, unless the Code of Virginia definition is
mandatory. Any term used in this chapter which is not defined in this chapter,
shall be given its common and ordinary meaning unless the term has been defined
elsewhere in the Northampton County Code, or by state statute, regulation, or
by the Virginia Supreme Court or the Virginia Court of Appeals, and the
definition is applicable to the context in which the term is used.
   (B)   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter:
      ADJACENT AND ABUTTING PROPERTY. Property which touches or is contiguous
to, or is separated by a road or right-of-way from other property.
      BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT. Any change, adjustment, relocation, vacation or
alteration of the boundary line of a lot or parcel of record.
      CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A sewerage system consisting of pipelines or
conduits, pumping stations, force mains, or sewage treatment plants, including
but not limited to septic tanks and/or drain fields or any of them, designed to
serve three or more connections used for conducting or treating sewage, which
is required to be approved by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to VA Code §§
15.2-2126 et seq.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A water supply system consisting of a well,
springs, or other source and the necessary pipes, conduits, mains, pumping
stations, and other facilities in connection therewith, to serve or to be
capable of serving three or more connections, which is required to be approved
by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to VA Code §§ 15.2-2149 et seq.
      CHESAPEAKE/ATLANTIC PRESER VATION AREA or CAP. Any land designated as a
Chesapeake Bay Preservation Area by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to Part
111 of the Chesapeake/Atlantic Preservation Area Designation and Management
Regulations, 9 VAC 10-20-70 et seq. and VA Code § 15.2-2284, as amended.
      CLERK OF THE COURT. The clerk of the circuit court of Northampton County,
Virginia or the clerk's deputies and assistants.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted Comprehensive Plan for Northampton
County, as amended from time to time.
      CONDOMINIUM. Any real property, and any incidents thereto, or interests
therein, in which individual dwelling units or apartments of a multi-unit
structure or area are owned individually, in conjunction with an undivided
interest in common elements appertaining to each individual unit and which
undivided interest is vested in each owner of any individual unit or apartment.
      COUNTY ATTORNEY. The Northampton County Attorney or the County Attorney's
designee.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A road having one end that opens to traffic and having the
other end terminated by a vehicle turn-around space.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of his or her land by
another party for a specific purpose.
      ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice as a professional engineer in the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
      FAMILY SUBDIVISION. The single division of property for the purpose of
sale or gift to a member of the immediate family of the owner of the property,
that is, to the natural or legally defined child, spouse, sibling, grandchild,
grandparent, or parent of the owner of property.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any utilities and facilities required by this chapter,
including, but not limited to, roads, cul-de-sacs, traffic signalization and
controls, sanitary sewers, storm water management, and erosion control or
shoreline stabilization facilities, drainage control facilities, water systems,
and curbs and gutters.
      LAND SURVEYOR or SURVEYOR. Any person licensed to practice as such in the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
      PARENT TRACT. A legally recorded lot or parcel existing of record on the
effective date of this chapter.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation or other entity capable of owning
real estate. See also NCC § 10.02(B).
      PHASED SUBDIVISION. A subdivision for which a preliminary plat is
approved for the entire property and for which a master phasing plan was
submitted with the preliminary plat, and for which two or more record plats,
individually pertaining to less than the entire property, are submitted
sequentially for review and approval.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a tract or parcel of land which is to be or has
been subdivided. When used as a verb PLAT is synonymous with SUBDIVIDE.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A plat upon which the plan for a subdivision is
presented for approval as a preliminary plat pursuant to this chapter, and
which may not be recorded with the land records of the county.
      PLAT, RECORD. A final plat upon which the plan for a subdivision is
presented for approval pursuant to this chapter, whether preceded by an
approved preliminary plat or not, and which, once approved and signed by the
subdivision agent, is in form for recording with the land records of the
county.
      PUBLIC SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A central sewerage system owned or operated by a
public authority or municipality.
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A central water system intended to be owned or
operated by a public authority or a municipality for the purpose of furnishing
potable water.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for a road,
crosswalk, railroad, sanitary or storm sewer, water main, drainage facility,
public utility, or other special use. The term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting
purposes under this chapter shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter
established and shown on a plat is to be separate and distinct from lots or
parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or
areas of such lots or parcels.
      ROAD. A public or private way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for
motor vehicle travel and affording access to abutting properties. For the
purpose of this chapter, the word ROAD shall include the words STREET, HIGHWAY,
LANE, AVENUE, and BOULEVARD.
      ROAD, PRIVATE. Any road that is not maintained by the Virginia Department
of Transportation, regardless of ownership, and not intended for acceptance
into the state highway system.
      ROAD, PUBLIC. A road maintained by the Virginia Department of
Transportation or one intended for acceptance into the state highway system as
meeting its specifications.
      SUBDIVISION AGENT. The Zoning Administrator of Northampton County or his
or her designated agent.
      SUBDIVIDE. The process of dividing land or otherwise adjusting boundary
lines to establish a subdivision.
      SUBDIVIDER. One or more persons who own property to be subdivided, or to
be divided by family division.
      SUBDIVISION. The division, including re-subdivision or family
subdivision, of a parent tract or the establishment of any condominium regime,
resulting in two or more lots. It shall also include the vacation of plats and
the adjustment of boundary lines.
      VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OR VDOT STANDARDS. One or more
applicable standards or requirements of the Virginia Department of
Transportation pertaining to the design or construction of any public road and
any improvement related thereto. Virginia Department of Transportation
standards include, but are not limited to, those standards and requirements set
forth in its road design manual, road and bridge standards manual, and
subdivision street requirements manual.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of Northampton County, Virginia.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all divisions of land, either by
subdivision, or family subdivision as provided herein, the vacation of plats or
parts thereof, and the relocation of boundary lines, within the unincorporated
area of Northampton County, Virginia, and to areas lying within the
jurisdiction of incorporated towns where the town has by resolution requested
Northampton County to exercise subdivision control over its incorporated area,
and the Board of Supervisors, by resolution, has accepted such authority.
   (B)   The Land Subdivision and Development Ordinance of Northampton County,
Virginia, enacted January 12, 1998, as amended, and all ordinances and parts of
ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
   (C)   This chapter shall be effective upon passage by the Board of
Supervisors of Northampton County.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to any new subdivision application submitted
after the effective date hereof.
   (E)   For any application pending before the effective date of this chapter,
which the subdivision agent has rejected but notified the applicant that
corrections or modifications may be made, such corrections and modifications
must be made and that the application resubmitted within 30 days of the
effective date of this chapter, or within 180 days of such notice, whichever is
later.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In addition to the Rules of Interpretation of the Northampton County
Code, NCC § 10.02, the following rules of construction shall apply in the
construction of this chapter, unless the application would be contrary to the
purposes of this chapter or the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (B)   This chapter is
Chapter 156 of the Northampton County Code, and consists of eight subchapters,
each of which contains sections, and subsections. Sections may be referenced to
and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as §
156.004. Subsections may be referred to by the designation "§" followed by the
number assigned to the section, and the letter assigned to the subsection, such
as §
156.004(B). References to any subchapter include all sections therein, and
references to any section include all subsections, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   All references to any statute, regulation, guideline, manual, or
standard shall be to that statute, regulation, guideline, manual, or standard
as amended as of the date of submittal of any application for subdivision
approval.
   (D)   All references to "days" shall be to calendar days.
   (E)   All distances and areas refer to measurement in a horizontal plane.
   (F)   The word "current" shall mean the point in time at which a matter is
under consideration and shall not mean the date of the adoption of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. 12-8-2020)
§ 156.005 RELATION OF CHAPTER TO OTHER LAWS.
   The requirements of this chapter are:
   (A)   Separate from, but supplementary to, all other applicable requirements
of the Northampton County Code or noncodified ordinances. Compliance with the
requirements of this chapter shall not be deemed to be compliance with other
applicable ordinances or regulations.
   (B)   Separate from, but supplementary to, all other applicable requirements
of state or federal law. If the requirements of this chapter are in direct
conflict with mandatory state or federal requirements, then the state or
federal requirements shall apply.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.006 CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate its purposes.
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or subsection of this chapter shall
be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, including a declaration that it is contrary to the constitution of the
Commonwealth or of the United States, or if the application thereof to any
government, agency, person or circumstance is held invalid, such judgment or
holding shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph,
section or subsection hereof, or the specific application hereof, directly
involved in the controversy in which the judgment or holding shall have been
rendered or made, and shall not in any way affect the validity of any other
clause, sentence, paragraph, section or subsection hereof, or affect the
validity of the application thereof to any other government, agency, person or
circumstance.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.007 CHESAPEAKE BAY PRESERVATION.
   No plat of subdivision shall be approved unless it complies with the
Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act, VA Code §§ 10.1-2100 et seq. and Part IV of
the Chesapeake Bay Preservation and Management Regulations, 9 VAC 10-20-110 et
seq., as amended, which regulations are incorporated herein as if fully set
forth.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.008 FLOOD CONTROL, FLOODPLAIN AND SUBDIVISION SUITABILITY.
   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2241, the provisions of which are
incorporated herein, no plat of subdivision shall be approved unless and until
provision has been made for adequate drainage. Any land use that will create a
new floodplain, with resulting flood, water or sediment damage, is contrary to
the public interest and is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.009 FAMILY SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   A single division of a lot or parcel to a member of the immediate
family of the property owner is permitted subject to the provisions of the Code
of Virginia Ann., 1950, as amended, and the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, "a member of the immediate family" is
defined as any natural person who is a natural or legally defined child,
stepchild, grandchild, spouse, sibling, parent or grandparent of the property
owner; and "property owner" is defined as the natural person(s) who is the sole
owner of the property.
   (C)   A conveyance to a member of the immediate family may be made to such
member and his or her spouse if title is conveyed to them as tenants by the
entirety.
   (D)   Each lot proposed to be created pursuant to this section shall comply
with all applicable requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Any family subdivision must not be sought for the purpose of
circumventing the spirit and intent of this chapter applicable to subdivisions.
   (F)   The trustee or trustees holding land may make a single division of a
lot or parcel of such land to a beneficiary of such trust pursuant to this
section so long as all beneficiaries of the trust (i) are immediate family
members of each other as that term is defined above; (ii) agree that the
property should be subdivided; and (iii) agree to place a restrictive covenant
on the subdivided property that would prohibit the transfer of the property to
a nonmember of the immediate family for a period of 15 years.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 10-9-2012; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.010 RESUBDIVISION SAME AS SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
156.047(B) and (C), any change that modifies, creates, or adjusts lot lines,
whether established by metes and bounds description or by a recorded
subdivision plat, shall be approved in the same manner and under the same
requirements as a new subdivision.
   (B)   This section applies to any subdivision plat of record or recorded
metes and bounds description, whether or not recorded prior to the adoption of
a subdivision ordinance.
   (C)   Where a road, alley, easement for public passage or other public area
laid out or described in such plat is affected, the plat shall be vacated
pursuant to §
156.011 prior to resubdivision.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.011 VACATION OF RECORDED PLAT.
   (A)   Any recorded plat, or part thereof, may be vacated pursuant to VA Code
§§ 15.2-2271 and 15.2-2272, as amended. Any such vacation shall operate to
destroy the force and effect of the recording of the plat so vacated and to
divest all public rights in, and to reinvest to the owners, proprietors and
trustees, if any, the title to the roads, alleys, easements for public passage
and other public areas laid out or described in such plat.
   (B)   The provisions of VA Code § 15.2-2278 shall apply to this section.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.012 ACTS PROHIBITED WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   Unless this chapter and VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VI,
are complied with, a person shall not divide land by subdivision,
resubdivision, or family subdivision.
   (B)   Unless this chapter and VA Code Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VI are
complied with, no recorded plat shall be changed or vacated, nor shall any
boundary line be adjusted, regardless of whether that boundary line was
established by recorded plat or by recorded metes and bounds description.
   (C)   No plat shall be recorded unless and until it has been signed by the
subdivision agent as approved or as exempt from regulation by this chapter. If
a portion of the property lies in another jurisdiction having a subdivision
ordinance, no plat shall be recorded unless and until it has been submitted to
and approved by that jurisdiction.
   (D)   A person shall not sell or transfer any land or a division of land to
which this chapter applies before a plat has been duly approved and recorded as
provided in this chapter, unless the division was lawfully created prior to the
adoption of a subdivision ordinance applicable thereto.
   (E)   The clerk of any court shall not file or record any plat until the
plat has been signed by the subdivision agent as either approved as provided in
this chapter, or exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   No administrative officer or staff of Northampton County shall issue
any building permit for the construction of any building, structure, or
improvement on a lot or parcel without proof produced by the person seeking the
permit that the lot complies with the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the power of a court of equity to
order that property be partitioned.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.013 EXCEPTION TO STRICT ADHERENCE.
   (A)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2242(1), an exception or variation
in the requirements of this Subchapter (NCC §
156.001, et seq.) may be granted by the Board of Supervisors upon a showing by
clear and convincing evidence that strict adherence to such requirements would
result in substantial injustice or hardship.
   (B)   Stat. Auth. VA Code § 15.2-2242.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.020 SUBDIVISION AGENT.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the subdivision agent of
the Board of Supervisors for the purposes of administering and enforcing this
chapter. The subdivision agent is hereby delegated to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.021 POWERS AND DUTIES OF AGENT.
   The subdivision agent shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To administer and enforce this chapter; except that the subdivision
agent shall have no authority to modify, vary, or waive, nor accept
substitution for, any requirement of this chapter unless expressly provided.
   (B)   To approve or disapprove all applications and plats.
   (C)   The subdivision agent shall periodically inspect every subdivision
during development and may employ any legally permissible means to ensure that
the subdivision is developed according to the approved plat and the provisions
of this chapter.
   (D)   To interpret this chapter, and to request opinions or decisions,
either verbal or written, from other departments of Northampton County, from
other officials and departments of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and from other
qualified persons as may from time to time be retained.
   (E)   To consult with and advise the Planning Commission on matters
contained in this chapter, including a monthly update on filed subdivision
applications.
   (F)   To establish procedures to govern the administration of this chapter
which are deemed by the subdivision agent to be necessary for its proper
administration. The procedures shall be consistent with this chapter and VA
Code §§ 15.2-2240 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.022 FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall establish a schedule of fees and
charges to examine and approve or disapprove every application reviewed under
this chapter. Such schedule of fees and charges shall be posted in the office
of the Planning Department and may be amended only by action of the Board of
Supervisors. All applicable fees and charges shall be paid at the time the
application is submitted. No application shall be considered complete, and no
action shall be taken on any application until all applicable fees and charges
have been paid.
   (B)   Such fees and charges as described in division (A) shall in no
instance exceed an amount commensurate with the services rendered taking into
consideration the time, skill and administrator's expense involved. All such
charges heretofore made are hereby validated
   (C)   No application fee for the review and processing of an application to
vacate a plat pursuant to NCC §
156.011 shall exceed $150, or otherwise fail to comply with the provisions of
VA Code § 15.2-2273.
   (D)   Stat. Auth. VA Code § 15.2-2241.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.023 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced, and violations penalized as follows:
      (1)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise who
violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $500 for each lot so divided, transferred, or sold. The description of the
lot by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in
the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from
the penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter
and the Zoning Ordinance relating to site development plan approval may be
subject to the penalties provided in NCC § 154.999.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the availability or imposition of any other
penalty, the Board of Supervisors of Northampton County or the subdivision
agent may institute any appropriate action or proceeding, at law or in equity,
to prevent a violation or attempted violation, to restrain, correct, or abate a
violation or attempted violation, or to prevent any act which would constitute
a violation of this chapter.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued by any administrative officer of
Northampton County for the construction of any building, structure, or
improvement requiring a permit upon any land for which an approval pursuant to
this chapter is required, unless and until the person seeking the permit
complies with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Failure by the Clerk of the Court to comply with §
156.012(E) shall invoke the penalty provisions of VA Code §§ 17.1-223 or 17.1-
291, as made applicable pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2254.
      (6)   Fees and charges for the administration and enforcement of the
subdivision ordinance shall in no instance exceed an amount commensurate with
the services rendered taking into consideration the time, skill and
administrator's expense involved. All such charges heretofore made are hereby
validated.
   (B)   Stat. Auth. VA Code § 15.2-2241.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.024 APPEAL.
   The disapproval of an application or a plat pursuant to this chapter may be
appealed to the Circuit Court of Northampton County in accordance with VA Code
§ 15.2-2259, as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.025 PREPARATION AND FILING OF SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS THERETO.
   (A)   Subdivision ordinances shall be prepared, filed, and amended in
accordance with VA Code §§ 15.2-2251, 15.2-2252, and 15.2-2253. Specifically:
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend the subdivision
ordinance and transmit it to the Board of Supervisors. The Board shall approve
and adopt a subdivision ordinance only after notice has been published, and a
public hearing held, in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2204.
      (2)   When a subdivision ordinance has been adopted, or amended, a
certified copy of the ordinance and any and all amendments thereto shall be
filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator, and in the clerk's office of
the Circuit Court for Northampton County.
      (3)   The Planning Commission on its own initiative may, or at the
request of the Board of Supervisors, shall prepare and recommend amendments to
the subdivision ordinance. The procedure for amendments shall be the same as
for the preparation and recommendation and approval and adoption of the
original ordinance; provided that no amendment shall be adopted by the Board
without a reference of the proposed amendment to the commission for
recommendation, nor until 60 days after such reference, if no recommendation is
made by the Commission.
   (B)   Stat. Auth. Code of Virginia §§ 15.2-2251, 15.2-2252, 15.2-2253.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 156.035 DETERMINATION OF EXEMPTION FROM CHAPTER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to record in the Clerk's Office a plat that does
not effect a subdivision as defined herein, shall, prior to recordation, obtain
a ruling from the subdivision agent that the plat is exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Such person shall submit two copies of the plat to the subdivision
agent, who will verify exemption from this chapter, and sign and date each, and
mark each with the following statement, "THIS PLAT IS EXEMPT FROM THE
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE". One copy will be kept by the agent. One copy may be
recorded.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.036 SUBDIVISION PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before submittal of any application for approval of a preliminary or
record subdivision plat, the applicant may submit a conceptual sketch of the
proposed subdivision and confer with the subdivision agent. This should be done
prior to the preparation of an engineered preliminary and record plat. The
purpose of such a sketch is to permit the subdivision agent to advise the
subdivider whether the conceptual subdivision design is located on land
suitable for development as defined in §
156.008 and is in general accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the
Zoning Ordinance, other applicable law, and the Comprehensive Plan. The
conceptual sketch should note the existence of the items contained in VA Code §
15.2-2258.
   (B)   Such action does not constitute the submission of a preliminary plat
and is not to be construed as an application for approval in computing time
limitations in relation thereto. The sketch is merely for informational
purposes and is not binding on the subdivider or Northampton County.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.037 PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO ALL SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All proposals subject to this chapter shall be initiated by an
application containing the material and information set forth in §§
156.061,
156.062 and
156.070, as applicable.
   (B)   All proposals subject to this chapter, including resubmittals after an
initial application has been disapproved, shall be accompanied by five copies
of a plat meeting the specifications and containing the information set out in
§§
156.071 and
156.081 through
156.083.
   (C)   An application will be considered officially submitted on the date it
is received by the subdivision agent or the applicable fees have been paid,
whichever is later.
   (D)   The subdivision agent shall act on any proposed plat and application
in accordance with the time limits and in the manner established by VA Code §§
15.2-2259 and 15.2-2260.
   (E)   The submittal of an application and plat by a subdivider shall
constitute consent by the subdivider to all officers and employees of
Northampton County, and any state department or agency, responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter, to enter upon the property at
all reasonable times for the purpose of making periodic inspections related to
the review of the plat for compliance with this chapter, and for inspection of
any improvements that have been required by the subdivision agent. The
subdivider shall provide at least five days prior notice to the subdivision
agent when each stage of the construction and improvement of the subdivision is
ready for inspection.
   (F)   The applicant, upon submittal of an application to the agent, must
notify by certified mail adjacent and abutting property owners to the subject
property that an application is on file and may be viewed at the County
Planning and Zoning Offices. Verification in the form of copies of issued
letters and return receipts must be provided to the agent prior to final action
on the application.
   (G)   Any preliminary or record plat submitted must comply with the
requirements of Virginia Code § 15.2-2258, specifically:
      (1)   When any part of the land proposed for subdivision lies in a
drainage district such fact shall be set forth on the plat of the proposed
subdivision.
      (2)   When any part of the land proposed for subdivision lies in a mapped
dam break inundation zone such fact shall be set forth on the plat of the
proposed subdivision.
      (3)   When any grave, object or structure marking a place of burial is
located on the land proposed for subdivision, such grave, object or structure
shall be identified on any plans or site plans required by this subchapter.
      (4)   When the land involved lies wholly or partly within an area subject
to the joint control of more than one locality, the plat shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission or other designated agent of the locality in which the
tract of land is located.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.038 PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   In all instances in which a new or modified road is proposed or in which
subsurface sewage disposal is proposed, all applications shall include a
preliminary plat in accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2260 in order to permit
review of such plat by the appropriate state agencies. A preliminary plat shall
also be submitted with any application in which a phased subdivision is
proposed or for any subdivision involving more than 50 lots. At the option of
the landowner, preliminary plan may be submitted for subdivisions involving 50
or fewer lots.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 2-10-2015; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.039 REVIEW AND ACTION UPON PRELIMINARY PLAT BY SUBDIVISION AGENT.
   (A)   The subdivision agent shall review a preliminary plat in accordance
with the requirements of VA Code § 15.2-2260.
   (B)   The subdivision agent shall review the plat for compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable law.
   (C)   If the subdivision agent determines that the plat complies with the
requirements of this chapter, and other applicable law, and that all conditions
of approval have been met, he or she shall approve the plat and certify his or
her approval by letter to the applicant. If the subdivision agent determines
that the plat does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, and other
applicable law, he or she shall disapprove the plat and promptly inform the
subdivider of the disapproval as provided in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   A written notice of disapproval shall state the reasons for
disapproval, with citation to the applicable section of this chapter or other
law, and what corrections or modifications will permit approval of the plat.
The subdivision agent shall either mail the notice of disapproval by first
class mail or personally deliver it to the subdivider, and shall certify in the
notice the date of delivery or mailing and advise the applicant that such
corrections or modifications may be made and that the application may be
resubmitted within 180 days of that date.
   (E)   In the event the subdivider fails to resubmit the application and plat
within the period described in division (D) of this section, the plat shall be
deemed to be denied and a new application and fee shall be required for
submittal of the plat.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.040 PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Once a preliminary subdivision plat is approved, it shall be valid for
a period of five years, provided the subdivider submits a record plat for all
or a portion of the property within one year of such approval; and thereafter
diligently pursues approval of the record subdivision plat. "Diligent pursuit
of approval" means that the subdivider has incurred extensive obligations or
substantial expenses relating to the submitted record subdivision plat or
modifications thereto.
   (B)   No sooner than three years following such preliminary subdivision plat
approval, and upon 90 days' written notice by certified mail to the subdivider,
the subdivision agent may revoke such approval upon a specific finding of facts
that the subdivider has not diligently pursued approval of the record
subdivision plat.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the date the preliminary plat is
approved shall be the date that the letter of approval required by §
156.039(C) is mailed or delivered.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.041 PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF PRELIMINARY PLAT FOR PHASED SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   If a subdivider records a record plat which is a section of a
subdivision as shown on an approved preliminary plat and furnishes to the
governing body a certified check, cash escrow, bond, or letter of credit in the
amount of the estimated cost of construction of the facilities to be dedicated
within said section for public use and maintained by the locality, the
Commonwealth, or other public agency, the developer shall have the right to
record the remaining sections shown on the preliminary plat for a period of
five years from the recordation date of the first section, or for such longer
period as subdivision agent may, at the approval, determine to be reasonable,
taking into consideration the size and phasing of the proposed development.
   (B)   The remaining sections of the preliminary plat shall be subject to
engineering and construction standards and zoning requirements in effect at the
time that each remaining section is recorded.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.042 PROCEDURE FOR RECORD PLATS.
   Submittal of record plat, submitted after approval of preliminary plat:
   (A)   A subdivider shall submit an application for approval of a record plat
within one year of the date of approval of the preliminary plat. A record plat
which is received by the subdivision agent that does not satisfy the
requirements of division (B) of this section shall not be deemed to be
officially submitted.
   (B)   Prior to submitting a record plat, a subdivider shall satisfy all
conditions of the approval of the preliminary plat and shall obtain all
tentative approvals from the appropriate agencies required to sign the record
plat. A record plat shall not be accepted by the subdivision agent if the
subdivider has not satisfied all of the conditions or has not obtained all
required tentative approvals. For purposes of this section, a tentative
approval is a formal written communication from a reviewing agency to the
subdivision agent stating that all of the requirements of the reviewing agency
have been satisfied.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.043 REVIEW AND ACTION UPON RECORD PLAT BY SUBDIVISION AGENT.
   (A)   The subdivision agent shall review the record plat for compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and other applicable law in effect at the time
of preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   If the subdivision agent determines that the record plat complies with
the requirements of this chapter and other applicable law in effect at the time
of preliminary plat approval, and that all conditions of approval of the
preliminary plat have been satisfied, the subdivision agent will advise the
subdivider by written notice that:
      (1)   The plat is deemed approved;
      (2)   The subdivider must follow procedures for approval and recordation
as described in §
156.045; and
      (3)   Unless the subdivider follows those procedures and provides
necessary materials required for the agent's approval signature within six
months of the date of the written notice deeming the plat approved, the
approval will be void, and a new submittal will be required. Any new submittal
will require the payment of new fees and must comply with regulations in effect
on the date of the new submittal.
   (C)   If the subdivision agent determines that the record plat does not
comply with all requirements of this chapter or that all conditions of approval
of the preliminary plat have not been satisfied, he or she shall disapprove the
record plat and promptly inform the subdivider of the disapproval by issuing a
notice of disapproval.
   (D)   A written notice of disapproval shall state the reasons for
disapproval, with citation to the applicable section of this chapter or other
law, and what corrections or modifications will permit approval of the plat.
The subdivision agent shall either mail the notice of disapproval by first
class mail or personally deliver it to the subdivider, and shall certify in the
notice the date of delivery or mailing and advise the applicant that such
corrections or modifications may be made and that the application may be
resubmitted within 180 days of that date.
   (E)   Any new submittal will require the payment of new fees and must comply
with regulations in effect on the date of the new submittal.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.044 PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF APPROVED RECORD PLAT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, unless a plat is
filed for recordation within six months after notice of approval, or such
longer period as may be approved by the governing body, such approval shall be
withdrawn and the plat marked void and returned to the subdivision agent.
   (B)   In any case where construction of facilities to be dedicated for
public use has commenced pursuant to an approved plan or permit with surety
approved by the governing body or its designated administrative agency, or
where the developer has furnished surety to the governing body or its
designated administrative agency by certified check, cash escrow, bond, or
letter of credit in the amount of the estimated cost of construction of such
facilities, the time for plat recordation shall be extended to one year after
notice of approval, or to the time limit specified in the surety agreement
approved by the governing body or its designated agent, whichever is greater.
   (C)   An approved record plat which has been recorded shall be valid for a
period of not less than five years from the date of approval thereof or for
such longer period as the subdivision agent may, at the time of approval,
determine to be reasonable, taking into consideration the size and phasing of
the proposed development. The period of validity of any plat is required to be
prominently noted on the face of the plat.
   (D)   The period of validity of an approved record plat, which has been
recorded, may be extended by the subdivision agent as provided in VA Code §
15.2-2261.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2023)
§ 156.045 RECORDATION OF RECORD PLAT.
   (A)   When a record plat is deemed approvable by the agent, the subdivider
must provide the agent with the following information within six months of the
date of the written notice of approval:
      (1)   A certificate of completion of all required improvements, or surety
in lieu of such a certificate, as provided in §§
156.095 through
156.111;
      (2)   Five copies of the plat which has been signed by the owners,
parties with an interest in the plat that are required to sign, duly
acknowledged by a notary officer authorized to take such acknowledgments. Each
copy shall bear the original seal and signature of the surveyor or engineer
preparing the plat. The subdivider may provide any additional copies he or she
desires;
      (3)   Five copies of any recorded or to be recorded agreement that is a
requirement of deeming the plat approvable;
      (4)   A digital AutoCAD file of the survey must accompany the hard copy
of the record plat. Any application for a subdivision must include as part of
its AutoCAD file a minimum of two Global Positioning System survey points
verified to the State Plane Coordinate System. The Global Positioning Points
must be subfoot accuracy; and
      (5)   The required recordation fee for the plat and any agreements to be
recorded.
   (B)   Upon the provision of all information, documents and fees required,
the agent will obtain signatures from the appropriate agencies required to sign
the plat, and will sign each page of the plat as approved, noting the date of
the signing. The agent then will cause the plat, and any agreements required to
be recorded, to be recorded in the Clerk's Office.
   (C)   After receiving all items required by division (A) of this section,
the subdivision agent will record the record plat within the sooner of three
business days following the regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the
technical review workgroup, if the items are submitted one day in advance of
that meeting, the schedule for which is posted in county offices, or 35 days
from submission of all items.
   (D)   Within five working days of the recordation date, the subdivision
agent will disperse the remaining three of the four copies of the approved plat
bearing the recordation time-date stamp to the Virginia Department of Health,
Virginia Department of Transportation and Northampton County's 911 agents. One
copy will remain on file with the Northampton County Planning Department. Any
additional approved copies provided by the subdivider will be returned bearing
a stamp with the date, time, instrument number and plat book number and page
within five days of the recordation date.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.046 PROCEDURE FOR FAMILY SUBDIVISIONS.
   The subdivision agent shall review an application for family subdivision as
for a record plat and all approval, recordation procedures, and periods of
validity for record plats shall apply. The subdivision agent shall not grant
approval unless:
   (A)   The lot created shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   The property owner or member of the immediate family of the current
owner requesting such subdivision shall have held fee simple title to the
property to be subdivided for a period of at least 15 consecutive years prior
to the filing of the family subdivision application with Northampton County.
   (C)   The property owner shall place a restrictive covenant in the deed
conveying the subdivided property and a note on the plat that prohibit the
transfer of the property to a nonmember of the immediate family for a period of
15 years, unless the provisions of this chapter with respect to non-family
subdivisions are complied with. This section shall not apply to a conveyance
made to secure an obligation nor pursuant to the foreclosure of a lien provided
the recordation of such lien against such lot or parcel occurs after the
recordation of the record plat, nor shall it apply to the lot or parcel
retained by the subdivider.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for any lot or parcel with respect
to which any of the foregoing provisions of this section have been violated
unless and until correction of such violation has been accomplished to the
satisfaction of the subdivision agent.
   (E)   Upon satisfactory evidence of a conveyance as described in division
(C) of this section or other action constituting a circumvention or violation
of any provision of this chapter, the Board of Supervisors may adopt an
ordinance vacating in whole or in part any such family subdivision plat in
accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2272.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.047 VACATION OF PLATS AND BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Vacations of plats or portions thereof shall be processed in
accordance with VA Code §§ 15.2-2271 and 15.2-2272.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, boundary line
adjustments shall be considered to be subdivisions of land and applications for
such adjustments shall be made and processed in the same way as other
applications for subdivision of land.
   (C)   When the boundary lines of any legal lot or parcel of record are
proposed to be platted for the first time in accordance with an agreement of
adjoining owners, or are proposed to be relocated, vacated or otherwise altered
without creation of any additional lot or parcel, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   The subdivision agent shall waive the requirements of this chapter
and approve such boundary line agreement or adjustment (BLA) as evidenced by
his or her signature on a plat thereof, so long as the following conditions
have been met:
         (a)   Such BLA shall not involve the relocation or alteration of
streets, alleys, easements for public passage, or other public areas; and no
easements or utility rights-of-way shall be relocated or altered without the
express consent of all persons holding any interest therein.
         (b)   Such BLA shall be clearly depicted upon an otherwise valid plat
of boundary line agreement or adjustment which shall be executed, acknowledged
and recorded by the owner or owners of such land as provided in VA Code § 15.2-
2264.
         (c)   Such BLA shall not result in any new violation of the area or
other dimensional requirements of the Zoning Ordinance; provided, however, that
any existing violation of minimum yard requirements or any existing non-
conformity in any non-conforming lot (as defined in the Zoning Ordinance) shall
be permitted to continue so long as such yard violation or non-conformity is
not enlarged, expanded or extended.
      (2)   With respect to each lot or parcel resulting from any such BLA, the
applicant shall satisfy one of the following two requirements:
         (a)   Submit an opinion of the health director regarding the
suitability of the property for the utilization of septic systems with
subsurface disposal, if that method of sewage disposal is proposed to be
utilized; or
         (b)   Place a conspicuous note upon the plat, in substantially the
following form:
   The Northampton County Health Department has not approved this lot for water
supply or sewage disposal. A certification from the Health Department that such
lots meet the requirements concerning water supply and sewage disposal shall be
required prior to any new construction in accordance with the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   Unless the titles to all parcels affected by the BLA are vested
identically in the same person or entity or the same combination of persons
and/or entities, a deed shall be filed with the plat which makes clear that no
additional lot or parcel shall be created by the BLA.
      (4)   For the purposes of the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances of
Northampton, the lots or parcels resulting from any such boundary line
adjustment approved hereunder shall be considered as coming into existence as
of the date of recordation in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Northampton County, Virginia, of the boundary line adjustment plat.
      (5)   The subdivision agent shall take action to approve or deny any
boundary line adjustment plat filed hereunder within 20 business days
(excluding time that elapses awaiting applicant's response to county staff
comments and requirements) after such plat has been officially submitted.
      (6)   Any boundary line adjustment plat approved hereunder shall be
recorded by the applicant in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
within six months of the date of final approval, or it is void.
   (D)   Boundary line adjustments shall be considered to be subdivisions of
land and applications for such adjustments shall be made and processed in the
same way as other applications for subdivision of land.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.048 DISCLOSURE AND REMEDIATION OF CONTAMINATION AND OTHER ADVERSE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROPERTY PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION AND
DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Prior to any approval of any subdivision plan, the subdivider or
developer shall be required to disclose and abate any and all adverse
environmental conditions of the property.
   (B)   "Adverse environmental conditions" shall include, but shall not be
limited to lead contamination, designation as a brownfield site by the EPA or
DEQ, perpetual flooding, oil or petroleum contamination, derelict or unsafe
buildings or structures, or any other condition which poses a danger to the
flora or fauna of the property.
   (C)   Stat. Auth. VA Code § 15.2-2242.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL SUBMISSIONS
§ 156.060 SUBMISSIONS FOR OPTIONAL PRE-APPLICATION REVIEW.
   A conceptual sketch should be drawn on white paper, on a print of a
topographic map or aerial photo of the property, be drawn to a scale of not
more than 100-feet to the inch and should show:
   (A)   Property lines;
   (B)   Proposed non-residential building locations and orientation;
   (C)   Building locations within 100 feet on adjacent properties;
   (D)   Location of parking areas;
   (E)   Landscape areas/buffers;
   (F)   Access to the site;
   (G)   Proposed use of site;
   (H)   Building setbacks per Zoning Ordinance;
   (I)   Zoning of surrounding properties;
   (J)   Graphic scale;
   (K)   Easements;
   (L)   Unique natural/visual features to be preserved (wetlands, RPA buffer,
known archaeological sites, mature trees etc.);
   (M)   Features which could impact the site design such as historic sites,
graveyards, towers, airstrips, underground storage tanks, etc.;
   (N)   Topography of site (data from 7.5 minute quadrangle sheets are
acceptable);
   (O)   Soil types (general soils type information from the Northampton County
Soil Survey is acceptable); and
   (P)   When a part of the tract is proposed for subdivision and it is
intended to subdivide additional parts in the future, the sketch shall include
the entire tract and phase lines required.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020)
§ 156.061 FORMAL APPLICATION: ALL PROPOSALS.
   All proposals subject to this chapter shall be initiated by an application
containing at least the following information and materials:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of agent, if any, of applicant;
   (C)   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of property which is
subject of application;
   (D)   The zoning district of the parcel;
   (E)   Northampton County tax map number and parcel record number;
   (F)   The total acreage of the parcel to be subdivided or resubdivided, with
the wetlands area and the uplands area shown;
   (G)   The total number of lots, including the remaining lands;
   (H)   A subdivision history of the base parcel for any parcel for which this
information is used to determine density or other zoning requirements;
   (I)   Proposed use of each lot proposed to be created;
   (J)   With regard to each proposed lot, if the applicant proposes to utilize
a subsurface sewage disposal system and/or an individual well, a preliminary
opinion from the applicable health official stating that such a system may be
installed on the lot;
   (K)   Estimated total number of gallons per day of water system requirements
where a central water system is proposed or required;
   (L)   Estimated total number of gallons to be treated where a central sewage
facility is proposed or required;
   (M)   A site plan or site plan of development when one or more of the lots
proposed would require such a site plan or plan of development pursuant to the
Northampton County Zoning Ordinance;
   (N)   Where erosion and critical slope or shoreline stability may be an
issue, as indicated by a document entitled "Shoreline Erosion: Its History and
Current Status Along the Chesapeake Bay in Northampton County, Virginia -
Policies/Regulations/Management (adopted by the Wetlands Board on November 18,
1998)," the subdivider shall submit an erosion and sediment control and/or
shoreline stability plan;
   (O)   Copies of any permits required to be obtained from any state or
federal agency;
   (P)   Maintenance agreements if required, pursuant to §
156.111;
   (Q)   If the proposed development is part of a phased subdivision, a master
phasing plan, pursuant to §
156.062;
   (R)   The subdivider shall submit, prior to final approval of any
preliminary or record plat, an opinion of the health director regarding the
suitability of the property for the utilization of septic systems with
subsurface disposal, if that method of sewage disposal is proposed to be
utilized in the development of the subdivision;
   (S)   The applicable zoning of the property, including all applicable
proffers, special use permit conditions and variances;
   (T)   The applicable zoning of all abutting properties; and
   (U)   Such other information as may be required from time to time by the
agent.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.062 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PHASED SUBDIVISIONS.
   In addition to the information required in §
156.061, applications for proposed phased subdivisions shall also be
accompanied by a master phasing plan which shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The boundary lines of the property;
   (B)   Existing land conditions, existing topography, and soils information;
   (C)   The general layout design of what is proposed for the subdivision, on
a scale of not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet;
   (D)   Phasing lines for each section, which shall include the delineation of
lots, open space, public road or private road rights-of-way, and other areas,
to be platted by each phase; and a written schedule of acreage and percentage
of each such land area for each section, stated on individual and cumulative
bases;
   (E)   The location of temporary cul-de-sacs, means of emergency access and
other temporary road improvements as may be necessitated by the phased
development; and a written time schedule for the removal or discontinuance of
such improvements; and
   (F)   A complete description of the extent to which improvements required by
this chapter and other improvements proposed by the subdivider will be
installed with each phase of the subdivision.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
PLATS
§ 156.070 INFORMATION AND FORMAT FOR ALL PLATS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all plats submitted with
applications shall meet the following specifications and contain the following
information:
   (A)   All plats which are to be recorded shall be prepared by a professional
engineer or a land surveyor to the limits of his or her license. However,
nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the preparation of preliminary
studies, plans or plats of a proposed subdivision by the owner of the land,
city planners, land planners, architects, landscape architects or others having
training or experience in subdivision planning or design.
   (B)   Each record plat shall meet the standard for plats set forth in any
regulations of the Library of Virginia, pursuant to VA Code § 42.1-82 and
shall:
      (1)   Be drawn to a scale that adequately and clearly depicts the
contents required by §
156.071:
      (2)   Comply with the sheet size and inscription standards of Library of
Virginia Standards for Plats, a current copy of which shall be on file in the
Department of Planning and Zoning; and
      (3)   Shall be in a form acceptable for recordation by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Northampton County.
   (C)   In accordance with Virginia Code § 15.2-2261:
      (1)   An approved final subdivision plat which has been recorded or an
approved final site plan, hereinafter referred to as "recorded plat or final
site plan," shall be valid for a period of not less than five years from the
date of approval thereof or for such longer period as the Zoning Administrator,
at the time of approval, determine to be reasonable, taking into consideration
the size and phasing of the proposed development. A site plan shall be deemed
final once it has been reviewed and approved by the locality if the only
requirements remaining to be satisfied in order to obtain a building permit are
the posting of any bonds and escrows or the submission of any other
administrative documents, agreements, deposits, or fees required by Northampton
County in order to obtain the permit. However, any fees that are customarily
due and owing at the time of the agency review of the site plan shall be paid
in a timely manner.
      (2)   (a)   Upon application of the subdivider or developer filed prior
to expiration of a recorded plat or final site plan, the Zoning Administrator
may grant one or more extensions of such approval for additional periods as the
Zoning Administrator may, at the time the extension is granted, determine to be
reasonable, taking into consideration the size and phasing of the proposed
development, the laws, ordinances and regulations in effect at the time of the
request for an extension.
         (b)   If the Zoning Administrator denies an extension requested as
provided herein and the subdivider or developer contends that such denial was
not properly based on the ordinance applicable thereto, the foregoing
considerations for granting an extension, or was arbitrary or capricious, he
may appeal to the circuit court having jurisdiction of land subject to the
recorded plat or final site plan, provided that such appeal is filed with the
circuit court within 60 days of the written denial by the commission or other
agency.
      (3)   For so long as the final site plan remains valid in accordance with
the provisions of this section, or in the case of a recorded plat for five
years after approval, no change or amendment to any local ordinance, map,
resolution, rule, regulation, policy or plan adopted subsequent to the date of
approval of the recorded plat or final site plan shall adversely affect the
right of the subdivider or developer or his successor in interest to commence
and complete an approved development in accordance with the lawful terms of the
recorded plat or site plan unless the change or amendment is required to comply
with state law or there has been a mistake, fraud or a change in circumstances
substantially affecting the public health, safety or welfare.
      (4)   Application for minor modifications to recorded plats or final site
plans made during the periods of validity of such plats or plans established in
accordance with this section shall not constitute a waiver of the provisions
hereof nor shall the approval of minor modifications extend the period of
validity of such plats or plans.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all recorded
plats and final site plans valid on or after January 1, 1992. Nothing contained
in this section shall be construed to affect (i) any litigation concerning the
validity of a site plan pending prior to January 1, 1992, or any such
litigation nonsuited and thereafter refilled; (ii) the authority of the Board
of Supervisors to impose valid conditions upon approval of any special use
permit, conditional use permit or special exception; (iii) the application to
individual lots on recorded plats or parcels of land subject to final site
plans, to the greatest extent possible, of the provisions of any local
ordinance adopted pursuant to the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act (§ 62.1-
44.15:67 et seq.); or (iv) the application to individual lots on recorded plats
or parcels of land subject to final site plans of the provisions of any local
ordinance adopted to comply with the requirements of the federal Clean Water
Act, Section 402 (p.) of the Storm Water Program and regulations promulgated
thereunder by the Environmental Protection Agency.
      (6)   An approved final subdivision plat that has been recorded, from
which any part of the property subdivided has been conveyed to third parties
(other than to the developer or local jurisdiction), or a recorded plat
dedicating real property to the local jurisdiction or public body that has been
accepted by such grantee, shall remain valid for an indefinite period of time
unless and until any portion of the property is subject to a vacation action as
set forth in VA Code §§ 15.2-2270 through 15.2-2278.
   (D)   If the provisions of a recorded plat or final site plan, which was
specifically determined by the Board of Supervisors and not its designee, to be
in accordance with the conditional zoning conditions previously approved
pursuant to VA Code §§ 15.2-2296 through 15.2-2303, or NCC 154.2-044, conflict
with any underlying zoning conditions of such previous rezoning approval, the
provisions of the recorded plat or final site plan shall control, and the
zoning amendment notice requirements of VA Code § 15.2-2204 shall be deemed to
have been satisfied.
   (E)   Any subdivision plat recorded prior to January 1, 1975, if otherwise
valid, is hereby validated and declared effective even though the technical
requirements for recordation existing at the time such plat was recorded were
not complied with, in accordance with Virginia Code § 15.2-2266.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.071 CONTENTS OF PLAT.
   (A)   Title. The title must indicate whether the plat is one of subdivision,
vacation of subdivision, vacation of property line, relocation of property
line, boundary survey and/or physical survey. If the plat is of a proposed new
subdivision and it is to have a name, it shall include the proposed name of the
subdivision. The title block must be in the lower right hand comer.
   (B)   The date of drawing and any revisions.
   (C)   The number of sheets and match lines.
   (D)   The north arrow and all control points for the survey shall be
referenced to the State Plane Coordinate System, South Zone, North American
Datum 83/North American Vertical Datum 88 or the most recent available FEMA
datum reference.
   (E)   The scale (no larger than one inch to 100 feet, unless previously
approved by the agent.)
   (F)   A notation on the plat attesting that the error of closure of the
boundary survey is not in excess of one foot in 10,000.
   (G)   The names and addresses of each owner of record of the property which
is the subject of the plat.
   (H)   Name and address of plat preparer.
   (I)   A location map showing the property, at a scale of one inch to 2,000
feet, showing adjoining roads, their names and numbers, towns, subdivisions,
other landmarks and their relationship with adjoining land.
   (J)   The location, width and names of all existing or platted roads,
easements, and natural streams, and all other rights-of-way and easements on
the land which is the subject of the application.
   (K)   If easements are shown for alleys and shared driveways, they shall be
labeled as "alley easement" or "shared driveway easement." The easement holder
(s) shall be identified on the plat. If shared driveways are shown, a note
shall be added to the plat stating that maintenance shall be by the owners of
the lots affected by the shared driveway easement.
   (L)   The location of sewage disposal systems and wells when required by the
Health Department.
   (M)   The location of all land intended to be dedicated, or reserved for
public use, or to be reserved for the common use of lot owners in the
subdivision.
   (N)   The location of any open space required by the Zoning Ordinance, NCC
Chapter 154.2.
   (O)   The location of any part of the property within the flood hazard
overlay district, as set forth in NCC Chapter 159.
   (P)   Locations of any known or suspected historic resources on the subject
parcel and within 100 feet of the boundary lines between the subject parcel and
adjacent parcels, including cemeteries, trenches, and archeological features
including those reflected in available county records.
   (Q)   If the property consists of more than one existing lot, then the
identification of the existing lots and their outlines, which shall be
indicated by dashed lines; and, the location of departing lot lines of abutting
lots, and the current identification as found on Northampton County Tax Maps
shall be placed on the plat.
   (R)   Any property lines to be adjusted or vacated should be shown and
clearly labeled.
   (S)   The number of lots, and the dimensions and area of each proposed lot.
   (T)   The lot numbers of all proposed lots.
   (U)   The location and dimensions of a lawful building site including all
setbacks for each proposed lot, including tower and airstrip setbacks, on which
a structure may be built, with a notation that the setback lines are those
applicable as of the date of approval of the plat.
   (V)   The total acreage of the property proposed to be subdivided and of
each proposed lot; the total area of wetlands and the total area of uplands
shall be shown.
   (W)   For any parcel for which this information is used to determine density
or other zoning requirements, a subdivision history of the base parcel, as that
term is defined in the Zoning Ordinance, shall be established on the plat
showing the boundaries on December 28, 2000, and relating the history of any
changes to the base parcel from that date forward to the present.
   (X)   If the property is zoned A-l, the number of lots into which each
proposed lot may be further divided by right pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance.
   (Y)   A certificate of the licensed land surveyor or engineer who prepared
the plat setting forth the source of the title of the land subdivided and the
place of record of the last instrument in the chain of title. When the plat is
of land acquired from more than one source of title, the outlines of the
several tracts shall be indicated upon such plats, within the inset block, or
by means of a dotted line upon the plat.
   (Z)   The names of all abutting property owners.
   (AA)   Resource Protection Area (RPA) and Resource Management Area (RMA)
boundaries, including differentiation between wetlands and buffer areas as
defined in the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Area Designation and Management
Regulations, 9 VAC 10-20-10 et seq., as amended.
   (BB)   Depiction of all easements to which the property is subject and
identification of the dominant estate by name or parcel.
   (CC)   The name of each existing and proposed public and private road on the
property which is proposed to be divided, which names shall be reviewed and
approved by the County 911 Agent.
   (DD)   When a residential subdivision is proposed in or adjacent to any
agricultural zoning district or use, the following statement shall be clearly
visible on the preliminary plat, and on any record plat subsequently approved
and recorded: "These residential building lots are located in an agricultural
area. Agriculture is the primary economic activity of this zoning district.
Owners, residents, and other users of property may be subjected to
inconvenience or discomfort arising from agricultural operations even though
conducted in accordance with best management practices and/or in accordance
with existing laws and regulations of the Commonwealth and the County. Such
agricultural operations may generate noise, odors, and dust; may involve the
operation of machinery, including aircraft; and may involve the storage and
disposal of manure, and the application of fertilizer, soil amendments, and
pesticides. Owners, occupants, and users of land should be prepared to accept
such inconveniences or discomfort as a normal and necessary aspect of living in
an agricultural zoning district in a county with a strong rural character and
an active agricultural sector." Such statement shall likewise be included on
any individual plats of lots or parcels within such subdivisions subsequently
and separately surveyed and recorded.
   (EE)   All linear, angular, and curvilinear dimensions of lots, roads,
alleys, public easements and private easements shall conform to the
requirements set forth in the Virginia Administrative Code regarding standards
and procedures for land surveyors. Curvilinear data shall include radius,
central angle, arc length, tangent distances, chord distance and chord bearing
and may be shown either directly on the corresponding boundary or surveyed line
or in table form.
   (FF)   Monuments. The location and material of all permanent reference
monuments installed in connection with the plat. Monuments found or installed
prior to plat recordation may be referred to if permanent and undisturbed. If
any monument required by this chapter will be installed after recordation of
the record plat, the certification of the professional engineer or land
surveyor shall so note.
   (GG)   Bearing and distance ties. A definite bearing and distance tie
between not less than two permanent monuments on the exterior boundary of the
property and further tie to an existing road intersection where possible and
reasonably convenient.
   (HH)   Public utility and drainage easements. The location of all proposed
public utility and drainage easements outside the right-of-way of public roads
and private roads.
   (II)   Means of lawful access from each lot to a public road.
   (JJ)   Restrictions imposed in conjunction with the approval of the plat and
their period of existence. If the length of a restriction makes its inclusion
on the record plat impractical, and does not necessitate the preparation of a
separate instrument, reference shall be made to the restriction on the record
plat.
   (KK)   If the subdivision will contain one or more private roads, one of the
following statements, as applicable:
      (1)   The streets in this subdivision do not meet the standards for
inclusion in the system of state highways and will not be maintained by the
Virginia Department of Transportation or Northampton County and are not
eligible for rural addition funds or any other funds appropriated by the
General Assembly and allocated by the Commonwealth Transportation Board. The
maintenance and improvement of the roads in this subdivision shall be in
accordance with a Maintenance Agreement, which instruments shall be
contemporaneously recorded with the subdivision plat; or
      (2)   The streets in this subdivision are not intended for inclusion in
the system of state highways and will not be maintained by the Virginia
Department of Transportation or Northampton County and are not eligible for
rural addition funds or any other funds appropriated by the General Assembly
and allocated by the Commonwealth Transportation Board. The maintenance and
improvement of the roads in this subdivision shall be in accordance with a
Maintenance Agreement, which instruments shall be contemporaneously recorded
with the subdivision plat.
   (LL)   If the subdivision will contain one or more alleys, ditches, gutters,
sidewalks, bicycle trails, or any water system, sewerage system, storm water
management facility, open space, common area, street or road sign, or other
improvement, individually and collectively referred to herein as the
"improvement," which are not to be maintained by Northampton County or any
authority or other public agency, the plat shall state that a condition of the
approval of the plat is that all lots therein are conveyed subject to an
instrument meeting the standards of §
156.111(B), which instrument shall contemporaneously be recorded with the
record plat.
   (MM)   Temporary cul-de-sacs. The location of temporary cul-de-sacs, if
needed, with the following accompanying note: "The area on this plat designated
as a temporary cul-de-sac will be constructed and used as other roads in the
subdivision until (road name) is/are extended to (road name), at which time the
land in the temporary cul-de-sac area will be abandoned for road purposes and
will revert to adjoining property owners in accordance with specific provisions
in their respective deeds."
   (NN)   Statement of consent to subdivision by all persons or entities having
a material interest in the property as follows: "The subdivision of the land
described herein is with the free consent and in accordance with the desire of
the undersigned owners. All statements affixed to this plat are true and
correct to the best of my knowledge."
   (OO)   For record plats, the signature panels for the owner(s) shall be
located immediately below the statement required by division (NN) of this
section. The owner(s) signature shall be notarized. The plat shall include a
signature panel for the notary in substantially this form:
 
State of                    
County/City of                   
The foregoing statement of consent was acknowledged before me this      day of
_______, _____.
Notary Public
My Commission Expires:____________
 
   (PP)   For record plats, signature panels for the subdivision agent shall
appear on each page of the plat, and shall bear the date of the signature, and
a statement to this effect: "This plat, consisting of      pages, has been
approved by the Subdivision Agent of Northampton County, and may be admitted to
the land records of the aforesaid County."
   (QQ)   Signature panels for other agencies when required.
   (RR)   All subdivisions proposed to be located within the established Flood
Hazard District shall have indicated on the subdivision plat base flood
elevation data to the following extent:
      (1)   The established 100-year flood line shall be indicated on the
subdivision plat; and
      (2)   The lowest and highest elevation for each lot within the proposed
subdivision above mean sea level shall be located on said lot as a spot
elevation.
   (SS)   All record plats and final site plans shall show the resource
protection area and resource management area boundaries and the extent of the
buildable area allowed on each lot based on all applicable setbacks, buffers,
easements, rights-of-way and other limitations such as the location of the
primary and reserve on-site sewage disposal system areas and well protection
areas, if public utilities are unavailable.
   (TT)   All record plats and final site plans shall provide the following
notation: "An undisturbed and vegetated 100-foot wide buffer area shall be
maintained, as specified in subdivision 3 of 9VAC25-830-140, and there shall be
no encroachments in the resource protection area, including but not limited to,
land disturbing activities, vegetation removal and construction activities
without the appropriate authorization from Northampton County."
   (UU)   All record plats and final site plans shall show the location of all
primary and 100% reserve onsite sewage disposal system areas and shall provide
the following notation: "All on-site sewage disposal systems must be pumped out
at least once every five years."
   (VV)   All record plats and final site plans shall provide the following
notation: "Only water dependent facilities or redevelopment are permissible in
Resource Protection Areas, including the 100-foot wide buffer area.
   (WW)   Any preliminary or record plat submitted must comply with the
requirements of VA Code § 15.2-2258.
   (XX)   Period of validity is required to be prominently noted on the face of
the plat.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 10-14-2014; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-
2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-2023)
§ 156.072 VACATION OF INTERESTS GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS AS A
CONDITION OF SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2270, any interest in streets,
alleys, easements for public rights of passage, easements for drainage, and
easements for a public utility granted to Northampton County as a condition of
the approval of a site plan may be vacated according to either of the following
methods:
      (1)   By a duly executed and acknowledged written instrument of the owner
of the land which has been or is to be developed in accordance with the site
plan, declaring the interest or interests to be vacated, provided the Board of
Supervisors (or Zoning Administrator) consents to the vacation. The instrument
shall be recorded in the same clerk's office wherein is recorded the written
instrument describing the interest in real property to be vacated. The
execution and recordation of the instrument shall operate to divest all public
rights in, and to reinvest the owner with the title to the interests which
formerly were held by the Board of Supervisors; or
      (2)   By ordinance passed by the Board of Supervisors, provided that no
interest shall be vacated in an area in which facilities, for which bonding is
required pursuant to VA Code §§ 15.2-2241 through 15.2-2245, have been
constructed.
   (B)   The ordinance shall not be adopted until after notice has been given
as required by Virginia Code § 15.2-2204. The notice shall clearly describe the
interest of the Board of Supervisors to be vacated by reference to the recorded
instrument on which it was created and state the time and place of the meeting
of the Board of Supervisors at which the adoption oft he ordinance will be
voted upon. Any person may appear at the meeting for the purpose of objecting
to the adoption of the ordinance. An appeal from the adoption of the ordinance
may be filed within 30 days of the adoption of the ordinance with the circuit
court having jurisdiction of the land over which the governing body's interest
is located. Upon appeal, the court may nullify the ordinance if it finds that
the owner of the property, which has been developed or is to be developed in
accordance with the approved site plan, will be irreparably damaged. If no
appeal from the adoption of the ordinance is filed within the time above
provided or if the ordinance is upheld on appeal, a certified copy of the
ordinance of vacation may be recorded in the clerk's office of any court in
which the instrument creating the Board of Supervisors' interest is recorded.
   (C)   The execution and recordation of an ordinance of vacation shall
operate to destroy the effect of the instrument which created the Board of
Supervisors' interest so vacated and to divest all public rights in and to the
property and vest title in the streets, alleys, easements for public rights of
passage, easements for drainage, and easements for a public utility as may be
described in, and in accordance with, the ordinance of vacation.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
EASEMENTS AND DEDICATIONS
§ 156.080 DEDICATION OF ROADS, ETC.
   (A)   The subdivision agent may require a subdivider to dedicate to
Northampton County in fee simple or by easement any portion of the property set
apart for public roads, alleys, for public use or any other use indicated on
the plat which creates a public right of passage over the land. Such dedication
shall include any curb, gutter, sidewalk, or bicycle trail indicated on the
plat.
   (B)   The subdivision agent may require a subdivider to dedicate in fee
simple or by easement to Northampton County or to such association or public
authority as the subdivision agent may require such improvements or easements
shown on such plat for the conveyance of storm water, domestic water or
sewerage. The recordation of such plat shall operate to transfer to the
locality, or to such association or public authority as the subdivision agent
may provide, such easements shown on the plat for the conveyance of stormwater,
domestic water and sewage, including the installation and maintenance of any
facilities utilized for such purposes.
   (C)   When any subdivision abuts an existing public road with inadequate
right-of-way, the subdivision agent shall require the developer to dedicate the
necessary right-of-way to meet the minimum right-of-way requirement to the
Virginia Department of Transportation.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors shall not be required to compensate the
subdivider for the dedicated land or improvements thereon.
   (E)   The land and improvements to be dedicated shall be set apart on the
record plat and shall be identified by a note on the plat stating that the land
is dedicated for public use.
   (F)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2265:
      (1)   The recordation of such plat shall operate to transfer to the
locality, or to such association or public authority as the subdivision agent
may provide, such easements shown on the plat for the conveyance of stormwater,
domestic water and sewage, including the installation and maintenance of any
facilities utilized for such purposes.
      (2)   When the Zoning Administrator or the Board of Supervisors, approve
in accordance with the subdivision ordinances of the locality a plat or replat
of land therein, then upon the recording of the plat or replat in the circuit
court clerk's office, all rights-of-way, easements or other interest of
Northampton County in the land included on the plat or replat, except as shown
thereon, shall be terminated and extinguished, except that an interest acquired
by Northampton County by condemnation, by purchase for valuable consideration
and evidenced by a separate instrument of record, or streets, alleys or
easements for public passage subject to the provisions of VA Code § 15.2-2271
or 15.2-2272 shall not be affected thereby. All public easements, except those
for public passage, easements containing improvements, those that contain
private utility facilities, common or shared easements for the use of
franchised cable operators and public service corporations, may be relocated by
recordation of plat or replat signed by the owner of the real property,
approved by the Zoning Administrator or Board of Supervisors, regardless of the
manner of acquisition or the type of instrument used to dedicate the original
easement. In the event the purpose of the easement is to convey stormwater
drainage from a public roadway, the entity responsible for the operation of the
roadway shall first determine that the relocation does not threaten either the
integrity of the roadway or public passage.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (F) of this section, when
the streets in a subdivision have not been accepted into the highway system and
serve only, or are primarily for, the general welfare of the inhabitants of the
subdivision and do not serve as a connector to other public rights-of-way, then
upon petition to the Board of Supervisors, signed by the owners of two-thirds
of the subdivision lots, including the subdivider if he has an interest in the
subdivision, requesting that they be allowed to restrict ingress and egress to
the subdivision, the Board of Supervisors may permit the restriction subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   The restriction may be abolished at any time in the sole discretion
of the Board of Supervisors;
      (2)   The restriction shall not be asserted in opposition to the public
ownership;
      (3)   The streets shall not be blocked to ingress and egress of
government or public service company vehicles;
      (4)   Necessary maintenance of the streets will be paid for by the
owners; and
      (5)   Such other conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.081 EASEMENTS FOR DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The subdivision agent may require a subdivider to provide easements
for drainage on or over property within the subdivision and adjoining property
owned by the subdivider. The subdivision agent may require a subdivider to
convey an easement for all drainage control improvements located on the
property whenever the improvement is constructed beyond a public road or
private road right-of-way or access easement. Such easement shall extend from
all drainage outfalls to a natural stream located on the property or, if a
natural stream is not located on the property, to the boundary of the property.
The subdivision agent may require a subdivider to convey, where appropriate, an
easement along any natural stream or man-made waterway located on the property.
   (B)   The area of any such easement shall be sufficient, as determined by
the subdivision agent, to:
      (1)   Accommodate the drainage characteristics from each drainage outfall
from a drainage control improvement and to provide access to the drainage
control improvement; and
      (2)   Allow access to a natural stream or man-made waterway to allow
widening, deepening, relocating, improving, or protecting the natural stream or
man-made waterway for drainage purposes.
   (C)   Any such easement shall include the right of ingress and egress for
installation, maintenance, operation, repair and reconstruction of any
improvement within the easement. The subdivision agent also may require that an
easement be provided through land adjoining the property under common
ownership.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors shall not be required to compensate the
subdivider for an easement or any improvements thereon.
   (E)   No easement established pursuant to this section shall be considered
part of any required public or private road width.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.082 EASEMENTS FOR CABLE TELEVISION AND PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATIONS.
   (A)   The subdivision agent, pursuant to VA Code § 15.2-2241 may require a
subdivider to convey, where appropriate, common or shared easements to
franchised cable television operators furnishing cable television and public
service corporations furnishing cable television, gas, telephone and electric
service to the subdivision, as provided herein.
   (B)   The location of an easement required by division (A) of this section
shall be adequate for use by franchised cable television operators and public
service corporations which may be expected to occupy them.
   (C)   An easement required by division (A) of this section shall include the
right of ingress and egress for installation, maintenance, operation, repair,
and reconstruction of any improvement within the easement. The subdivision
agent also may require that an easement be provided through land adjoining the
property under common ownership.
   (D)   Any such easement shall be conveyed by reference on the record plat to
a declaration of the terms and conditions of the common easements.
   (E)   For conveyance of common or shared easements to franchised cable
television operators furnishing cable television and public service
corporations furnishing cable television, gas, telephone and electric service
to the proposed subdivision. Once a developer conveys an easement that will
permit electric, cable or telephone service to be furnished to a subdivision,
the developer shall, within 30 days after written request by a cable television
operator or telephone service provider, grant an easement to that cable
television operator or telephone service provider for the purpose of providing
cable television and communications services to that subdivision, which
easement shall be geographically coextensive with the electric service
easement, or if only a telephone or cable service easement has been granted,
then geographically coextensive with that telephone or cable service easement;
however, the developer and franchised cable television operator or telephone
service provider may mutually agree on an alternate location for an easement.
If the final subdivision plat is recorded and does not include conveyance of a
common or shared easement as provided herein, the agent designated by the Board
of Supervisors to review and act on submitted subdivision plats shall not be
responsible to enforce the requirements of this subdivision.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.083 EFFECT OF RECORDATION OF PLAT ON DEDICATIONS AND CERTAIN EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The recordation of a record plat shall operate to transfer, in fee
simple, to Northampton County that portion of the land set apart on the plat
and dedicated for public use.
   (B)   The recordation of a record plat shall operate to transfer to
Northampton County any easement indicated on the plat to create a public right
of passage over the property.
   (C)   The recordation of a record plat shall operate to terminate and
extinguish all rights-of-way, easements or other interests of Northampton
County not shown on the plat, except that an interest acquired by Northampton
County by eminent domain, by purchase for valuable consideration and evidenced
by a separate instrument of record, or roads, alleys or easements for public
passage subject to the provisions of VA Code §§ 15.2-2271 or 15.2-2272 shall
not be affected thereby.
   (D)   The recordation of a record plat shall not constitute acceptance of
any improvements by Northampton County or any service authority, state agency
or department.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.095 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All on-site improvements required by this chapter shall be completed
at the expense of the subdivider.
   (B)   Northampton County shall not be obligated to maintain, repair, replace
or reconstruct any improvement required by this chapter, and nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as creating an obligation of Northampton County to
pay any costs arising from any improvement, unless Northampton County has an
ownership interest in the improvement or has otherwise agreed in writing to
maintain, repair, replace or reconstruct the improvement.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter, including the approval of a record plat,
shall obligate Northampton County, an authority, or a state agency or
department to accept and take over for operation and maintenance any
improvements completed by a subdivider as required by this chapter. Acceptance
or approval of an improvement shall be made only if the improvement satisfies
all applicable statutes, regulations, ordinances, guidelines and design and
construction standards for acceptance or approval of the improvement, upon
completion of inspections as provided in §
156.037(E).
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.096 ROADS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be served by public roads, except as provided
in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Private roads which meet, unless specifically exempted, all other road
requirements of this chapter, may be allowed:
      (1)   In family subdivisions;
      (2)   In residential subdivisions, where the private road serves ten or
fewer residential lots;
      (3)   In multi-family unit and condominium subdivisions, or in industrial
or commercial subdivisions, where at no time in the future such roads will
carry through traffic.
      (4)   Any subdivision containing private roads or private access drives,
not built to meet VDOT standards, shall in the deed to each tract or lot, and
on the record plat for the subdivision, contain a note advising as follows:
   The streets in this subdivision do not meet the standards necessary for
inclusion in the system of state highways and will not be maintained by the
Virginia Department of Transportation or Northampton County and are not
eligible for rural addition funds or any other funds appropriated by the
General Assembly and allocated by the Commonwealth Transportation Board. The
maintenance and improvement of the roads in this subdivision shall be in
accordance with a Maintenance Agreement, recorded [of even date with the
subdivision plat] as Instrument Number in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit
Court of Northampton County.
      (5)   Any subdivision containing private roads or private access drives,
built to meet VDOT standards, but not intended for VDOT maintenance, shall in
the deed to each tract or lot, and on the record plat for the subdivision,
contain a note advising as follows:
   The streets in this subdivision are not intended for inclusion in the system
of state highways and will not be maintained by the Virginia Department of
Transportation or Northampton County and are not eligible for rural addition
funds or any other funds appropriated by the General Assembly and allocated by
the Commonwealth Transportation Board. The maintenance and improvement of the
roads in this subdivision shall be in accordance with a Maintenance Agreement,
recorded [of even date with the subdivision plat] as Instrument Number in the
Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Northampton County.
      (6)   Any and all roads that are not constructed to meet the standards
necessary for inclusion in the system of state highways will be privately
maintained and will not be eligible for acceptance into the system of state
highways unless improved to current VDOT standards with funds other that those
appropriated by the General Assembly and allocated by the Commonwealth
Transportation Board.
   (C)   Any lot of less than five acres created by family subdivision, at a
minimum, shall be served by a right-of-way which is at least 20 feet wide and
which provides ingress and egress from the lot to a dedicated recorded public
street or thoroughfare.
   (D)   All roads within a subdivision, except for a family subdivision, shall
be coordinated as to location, width, typical cross-section, grades and
drainage with other existing or planned roads contiguous to or within the
general area of the subdivision, including coordination with existing or
planned roads in existing or future adjacent subdivisions or which are
contiguous to those adjacent subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.097 STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC ROADS, PRIVATE ROADS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   All public roads shall be designed and constructed according to
Virginia Department of Transportation standards for acceptance into the
secondary system of state highways.
   (B)   All lots in residential subdivisions of land fronting on U.S. 13
(Lankford Highway) (excluding U.S. Business 13), State Routes 613, 183
(Occohannock Neck Road), 184 (Stone Road), Route 618 and 619 (Bayside Road) and
Route 600 (Seaside Road) which adjoins these roads, shall have no direct access
to those roads.
   (C)   The minimum width of the right-of-way of proposed roads, measured from
lot line to opposite lot line shall be not less than 50 feet. Road layouts
shall minimize pedestrian and vehicle conflict points. Northampton County may
require the installation of sidewalks when such improvements are important to
traffic safety and, when required, shall adhere to the standards developed by
the Virginia Department of Transportation. When the property to be subdivided
is zoned to an industrial classification and the proposed road(s) is (are) not
intended to accommodate through traffic, the minimum width of the right-of-way
may, if determined to be necessary by the Subdivision Agent, be reduced by the
minimum distance required to afford relief from the standard requirement but in
no case to less than 40 feet, and shoulders and/or drainage provisions shall be
of sufficient width and design to accommodate storm water runoff as deemed
necessary by the subdivision agent.
   (D)   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two roads
shall not be used, except by permission of the Virginia Department of
Transportation (VDOT).
   (E)   Roads shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles.
   (F)   For private roads:
      (1)   All connections and intersections with public roads shall meet all
Virginia Department of Transportation standards.
      (2)   Travel ways sub-grade shall be five inches of compact road fill.
      (3)   Surface treatments may be gravel, shell, or other comparable
material.
      (4)   The travelway shall be not less than 18 feet, or more than 30 feet
including drainage and shoulders.
      (5)   Shoulders and/or drainage provisions shall be of sufficient width
and design to accommodate storm water runoff as deemed necessary by the
subdivision agent.
      (6)   The siting/alignment of the private road shall minimize disturbance
of existing land use and natural resources.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 3-10-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-
10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.098 CUL-DE-SACS AND DEAD-END ROADS.
   (A)   Where natural features or the design concepts employed make their use
appropriate, cul-de-sacs may be used. Cul-de-sacs shall provide a terminal
turnaround having a right-of-way radius as prescribed by Virginia Depaliment of
Transportation standards. The permitted length of a cul-de-sac shall be a
maximum of 800 feet on a public road.
   (B)   Temporary cul-de-sacs. Public roads and private roads more than 300
feet in length from an intersection, that terminate temporarily, and that are
proposed to serve more than four dwelling units, shall be provided with a
temporary terminal cul-de-sac having a radius as prescribed by Virginia
Department of Transportation standards. The temporary cul-de-sac shall exist
until the road extensions are accepted into the secondary system of state
highways.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.099 ALLEYS.
   Alleys with a right-of-way or easement width of not less than 20 feet may be
provided in the rear or side of all commercial, industrial, and residential
lots. The design specifications shall be determined by the subdivision agent,
subject to the following:
   (A)   The alley design shall allow emergency services vehicles such as
police cars, fire trucks and ambulances to use the alley; and
   (B)   An alley need not be designed to accommodate the largest emergency
services vehicles, except that if fire trucks do not have adequate access to
one or more lots from a public road or private road, the subdivision agent
shall require that the alley be designed to accommodate fire trucks. Alley
rights-of- way may either be established as a privately held fee simple
interest or as a privately held easement.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.100 PRINCIPAL MEANS OF ACCESS.
   (A)   The principal means of access to a subdivision shall conform to
Virginia Department of Transportation standards throughout its length,
including any distance between the boundary of the subdivision and any existing
public road.
   (B)   If the subdivision will result in the potential development of 50 or
more dwelling units, the subdivision shall have more than one principal means
of access from one or more existing public roads.
   (C)   If discharge water of a 100-year storm could reasonably be anticipated
to inundate, block, destroy or otherwise obstruct a principal means of access
to a residential subdivision, the principal means of access shall be designed
and constructed so as to provide unobstructed access at the time of flooding,
and/or an alternative means of access which is not subject to inundation,
blockage, destruction or obstruction, and which is accessible from each lot
within the subdivision shall be constructed.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.101 ENTRANCES TO ROADS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Each entrance onto any public road for traffic to and from a
subdivision shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Virginia
Department of Transportation standards.
   (B)   If the entrance is onto U.S. 13, an entrance which is not directly
opposite any crossover in the median of that highway shall not be permitted
within 500 feet of the crossover except upon findings by the subdivision agent
that:
      (1)   There is no other reasonably practicable access to the subdivision
except within 500 feet of the crossover;
      (2)   No reasonable means of alternative access is available to the
subdivision; and
 
      (3)   The provision of an entrance within 500 feet of the crossover will
be consistent with the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.102 DRAINAGE FOR ROADS.
   Adequate drainage control shall be provided for public and private roads by
installing culverts under roads; side, lead, or outlet ditches, catch basins,
curb inlets, or any other devices, including piping, as determined to be
necessary by the subdivision agent. All of these improvements shall meet the
standards of Northampton County or, in the event no county standards exist,
Virginia Department of Transportation standards. Drainage control improvements
shall be subject to a maintenance agreement as provided in §
156.111.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.103 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALIZATION.
   Appropriate traffic control signs and signalization shall be provided, as
required by the subdivision agent for public safety.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.104 SIGNS IDENTIFYING PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   Signs identifying public and private road names shall be installed at
all intersections in accordance with the provisions of NCC §§
150.20 through
150.24, as amended.
   (B)   Proposed roads which are obviously in alignment with other existing
and named roads shall bear the names of the existing roads. In no case shall
the names of other proposed roads duplicate existing road names regardless of
the use of differing designations such as "street," "avenue," "boulevard,"
"road," "driveway," "place," "lane," "way," "trail," "circle," "trace," "path,"
or "court".
   (C)   Road names shall be indicated on the preliminary and final plats and
shall be approved by the 911 agent.
   (D)   Names of existing roads shall not be changed except by approval of the
Northampton County Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.105 STORM WATER, DRAINAGE, FLOOD CONTROL, BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct or install at his or her expense the
approved storm water management, best management practice (BMP) and/or
facilities, in accordance with plans submitted as provided in §
156.061(N).
   (B)   All storm drain facilities shall be designed to convey the flow of
surface water without damage to persons or property to minimize off-site
impacts. The subdivision agent may require detention of storm water on-site in
accordance with applicable best management practices or state regulations. The
system shall ensure drainage away from buildings, water wells and on-site waste
disposal sites. Drainage plans shall be consistent with local and regional
drainage plans, including those of the Virginia Department of Transportation
and Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act water quality objectives.
   (C)   Lots shall be laid out as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm
drainage water from each lot onto adjacent lots and to avoid blockage of
existing drainage patterns on adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.106 STABILIZATION OF CRITICAL SLOPES OR SHORELINE.
   In areas of significant potential erosion along banks or shorelines, the
subdivider shall file a plan for erosion and sedimentation control, and shall
construct such improvements as needed for stabilization where the subdivision
agent determines that it is clear that some remedial or preventative measures
are required, and the likelihood of successfully treating the problem is
significantly decreased when left to subsequent individual efforts, executed at
indefinite times in the future. It is the intent of this section to assure
sound waterfront management and conservation practices in situations and areas
where a consolidated effort, executed as a whole and in its entirety, is more
likely to arrest significant erosion.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.107 UTILITIES.
   All applications for the creation of lots pursuant to this chapter, except
for family subdivisions, shall include plans (including necessary easements)
for providing access to each lot for electricity, water, sewage treatment,
telephone service, cable television service, gas service, etc. All utilities,
including but not limited to wires, cables, pipes, conduits and appurtenant
equipment for electricity, gas, water, sewer, telephone or similar service,
shall be located within a subdivision as follows:
   (A)   All utility lines except for those utilities identified in division
(B) of this section, shall be placed underground including, but not limited to,
electric service lines, CATV, telephone, or other lines. This requirement shall
apply to lines serving individual sites within the development and to utility
lines providing service to the development.
   (B)   The following utilities may be located above-ground:
      (1)   Electric transmission lines, the placement of which is regulated by
the State Corporation Commission;
      (2)   Equipment, including electric distribution transformers, switch
gear, meter pedestals, telephone pedestals, outdoor lighting poles or
standards, radio antennae and associated equipment, which is, under accepted
utility practices, normally installed above-ground; and
      (3)   Meters, service connections, and similar equipment normally
attached to the outside wall of a utility customer's premises; and satellite
dishes.
   (C)   If it is necessary to locate a new or existing public utility within
the right-of-way of a public road, the subdivider shall first obtain a permit
from the Virginia Department of Transportation.
   (D)   All utilities, poles, or underground conduits for electric power lines
or telephone lines shall be placed in alleys if such are provided, or in
easements appropriately located, generally along the rear side to lot lines,
whenever possible.
   (E)   All public utilities and facilities shall be located and constructed
to minimize flood damage.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 7-8-2008; Am. Ord. passed 11-
10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.108 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   All boundaries, both exterior and interior, of the original survey for
the subdivision shall be monumented.
   (B)   Concrete monuments six inches in diameter or six inches square, 30
inches long (deep), with a flat top, having a metal pin or rebar of five-
eighths-inch diameter imbedded therein shall be set at all block corners or at
tangent points of curves connecting intersecting street lines, at all corners
in the exterior boundary of the subdivision. The top of the monument shall be
set flush with the surface of the ground or finished grade.
   (C)   Lot corner pins shall be placed at all lot corners, and shall be 24
inches long, and of five-eighths inch rebar or iron pipe not less that three-
fourths inch in diameter and be driven as to be flush with the finished grade.
(When rock is encountered, a hole shall be drilled four inches deep in the
rock, into which shall be cemented a steel rod five-eighths inch in diameter,
the top of which shall be flush with the finished grade line.).
   (D)   All required monuments shall be clearly visible.
   (E)   No monuments, other than those required by division (A) of this
section, shall be required to be set before recordation of the record plat or
the conveyance of land by reference to plat if the professional engineer or
land surveyor includes in his or her certification on the plat that any
additional monuments required by this chapter shall be set on or before a
specified later date.
   (F)   The subdivider shall be responsible for resetting any monument on the
property which is damaged, disturbed or destroyed during construction of any
improvements required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.109 WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Public water and sewer. Where public water supply and public sewerage
systems are available, such services shall be extended to all lots within a
proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Central water and sewer.
      (1)   A subdivision for which public water and/or sanitary sewerage
service is not available and which will have 33 or more lots and which comprise
a density of 2.18 dwelling units per acre or greater shall be served by a
central water system and central sewerage system, to be constructed by the
subdivider at his or her expense, as provided herein.
      (2)   The design and construction of each central water system and
central sewerage system required by this section shall be approved by the
Virginia Department of Health, or its local office, the Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality, and the subdivision agent. Each system shall compliment
or supplement existing or proposed county utilities to the extent that existing
public utilities are inadequate.
      (3)   Such central water and sewage systems shall be offered for
dedication to Northampton County, without cost, and shall be accepted by
Northampton County and operated as part of the public utility system, if the
Board of Supervisors of Northampton County determines that county ownership and
operation of the system would be consistent with the plans for Northampton
County's public utility system.
   (C)   Individual private wells and septic systems.
      (1)   A subdivision for which public water and/or sanitary sewerage
service is not available as provided in division (A) of this section, and for
which either a central water system or central sewerage system, is not required
or provided, shall be served by individual private wells or septic systems, or
both.
      (2)   The subdivision agent shall not approve any subdivision where
central water and sewer are not provided unless the subdivision agent receives
in writing from the appropriate official of the Virginia Department of Health
that each lot on the proposed plat has a site suitable for sewage disposal and
an approved 100% reserve site pursuant to the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act.
The subdivider shall provide the Virginia Department of Health with information
on soil studies, percolation tests, topographic studies and other engineering
data as evidence that the land is suitable for sewage disposal. Drainfield and
reserve drainfield must be shown on all plats. Health Department conditional
use permits for septic system use during only certain months are not
acceptable. The subdivision agent shall not approve any plan of subdivision in
which any portion of any sanitation device or system or its 100% reserve site
is proposed to be constructed within a high-hazard flood zone as designated on
the most recent FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
      (3)   The appropriate Health Department official shall determine the
suitability of the soil of each lot of the subdivision for which septic systems
with subsurface disposal will be constructed, and the subdivider shall submit
the opinion of the appropriate health official to the subdivision agent.
      (4)   No preliminary or record plat of subdivision shall be approved
where a well and/or sewage disposal system is to be provided for each building
lot in the subdivision, until written approval of proposed locations for such
systems has been secured from the appropriate health official. Such approved
locations shall be shown to scale on the preliminary and/or record plat.
      (5)   Any source of groundwater intended to supply potable water must be
an approved source of supply reasonably calculated to be capable of furnishing
the needs of the eventual inhabitants of the subdivision. The subdivision agent
may require, at the expense of the subdivider, geotechnical or other tests to
determine the suitability of the soil for subsurface disposal and may require
hydrogeologic or other tests to determine the adequacy of the groundwater
supply for the proposed use or uses.
      (6)   Any proposed lots which have been completely tested and do not meet
Health Department requirements may be approved with a note similar to the
following placed on the plat:
   "NOTE: This lot is not approved as a building lot as it is unsuitable for
the installation of an on-site sewage disposal system and/or individual water
supply under the current standards of the Health Department."
      (7)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the
subdivision agent shall not approve the use of individual private wells if the
appropriate health official determines that the topography of the property is
such that individual private wells will be endangered by individual septic
systems.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.110 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   If public water is available, at pressure and volume flow rate meeting
the American Insurance Association standards, the subdivider shall install fire
hydrants at locations approved by the subdivision agent as necessary to provide
adequate fire protection. The subdivision agent shall consult with the Fire
Marshall before approving such locations. The location and design of all fire
hydrants shall meet the American Insurance Association specifications.
   (B)   If public water is not available, and the subdivision contains a
source of water from a dry well, retaining pond, or other natural or engineered
feature, the subdivision agent may require the dedication of an easement of
access to such source, for the benefit of any fire department responding to an
emergency within the subdivision.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.111 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Except in the case of family subdivisions, if the subdivision will
contain one or more private roads, alleys, or any water system, sewerage
system, storm water management facility, BMP, systems or structures for
stabilization of critical slopes or shoreline, open space, common area, street
or road sign, or other improvement, individually and collectively referred to
herein as the "improvement," which are not to be maintained by Northampton
County or any authority or other public agency, the subdivider shall submit
with the record plat an instrument, providing for the continuing maintenance of
the improvement, as provided herein.
   (B)   The instrument shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Identify with specificity the improvement.
      (2)   Identify the plat to which the instrument applies.
      (3)   Have a statement that no public agency, including the Virginia
Department of Transportation and Northampton County, will be responsible for
maintaining the improvement.
      (4)   Have a statement that the improvement shall be maintained in
perpetuity to assure that it remains in substantially the condition it was in
when approved by Northampton County.
      (5)   State that the subdivider, its assigns and successors in title,
will perpetually maintain at its sole expense, the improvement and identify the
standard to which the improvement will be maintained.
      (6)   If the subdivider is to assign its obligations to a homeowners
association or property owners' association, that association shall be a
Virginia nonstock corporation, which association shall be subject to
restrictive covenants and easements approved by the subdivision agent and
recorded with the record plat. The covenants and restrictions of the
homeowners' association shall ensure the continued maintenance of any
improvements.
      (7)   Identify the timing or conditions warranting maintenance of the
improvement.
      (8)   State a method for prorating expenses among the lot owners,
including if and when there is further division of any lot or the number of
units per lot increases.
      (9)   State that the county, its agents, employees and contractors shall
have the perpetual right of ingress and egress over the property and the right
to inspect the condition of improvement in order to insure that it is properly
maintained and functioning.
      (10)   State that if the subdivider, its assigns and successors in title
fail to correct or provide a plan of action which will remedy any non-compliant
situation or condition within 60 days of a notice and demand to do so, the
county may enter the property to perform all maintenance, construction and
reconstruction that the county deems necessary, and that the county shall then
assess the subdivider, its heirs, assigns, and successors in title for the cost
of the work, both direct and indirect. Said assessment shall be a lien against
all properties described within this maintenance agreement and may be placed on
the property tax bills of said properties and collected as ordinary taxes by
the county.
      (11)   State that the subdivider, its assigns and successors in title
shall indemnify, save harmless and defend the county from and against any and
all claims, demands, and payments, including attorneys' fees, claimed or made
against the county that are alleged or proved to result or arise from the
construction, maintenance, or use of the improvement.
      (12)   State that the terms of the maintenance contained herein shall run
with the land and the subdivider further agrees that whenever any lot in the
subdivision shall be sold or conveyed, it shall be subject to the covenants,
stipulations, agreements and provisions of the maintenance agreement, which
shall apply to, bind and be obligatory upon the all present and subsequent
owners of the property.
   (C)   If the instrument pertains to the maintenance of one or more private
roads or alleys, it shall contain, in addition to the contents required by
division (B) of this section, a statement that for purposes of the instrument,
maintenance shall include maintenance of the roads, alleys, curbs, gutters,
drainage facilities, utilities or other road improvements, and the prompt
removal of snow, water, debris, or any other obstruction so as to keep the road
or alley reasonably open for usage by all vehicles, including emergency
services vehicles.
   (D)   The instrument shall be subject to review and approval by Northampton
County Attorney and shall be in a form and style so that it may be recorded in
the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Northampton County.
   (E)   Maintenance of improvements shall include replacement, reconstruction
and the correction of defects or damage.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
COMPLETION OF ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS AND SURETY
§ 156.120 COMPLETION OF ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
156.121, before final approval and recordation of any subdivision plat, the
subdivider shall construct all required improvements in accordance with the
approved plans and shall maintain said improvements until accepted for
maintenance by the appropriate county or state agency.
   (B)   Prior to approval of the plat:
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit to the subdivision agent a certificate
of completion of all of the improvements prepared by a professional engineer or
a land surveyor, to the limits of his or her license;
      (2)   The subdivider shall certify to the subdivision agent that all of
the construction costs for the improvements, including those for materials and
labor, have been paid to the person or entity constructing the improvements;
and
      (3)   The subdivider shall provide evidence of acceptance for maintenance
by any applicable state agency.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.121 SURETY IN LIEU OF COMPLETION OF ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
156.120, pending actual completion of all on-site improvements, a record plat
may be approved and recorded if the subdivider enters into a binding commitment
with Northampton County to complete the construction of all improvements
required by this chapter within a period of time agreed to by the parties, and
furnishes to the subdivision agent a certified check, bond with surety
satisfactory to Northampton County, or a letter of credit satisfactory to
Northampton County, in an amount sufficient for and conditioned upon the
construction of the improvements.
   (B)   The form of the agreement and the type of surety guarantee shall be to
the satisfaction of the subdivision agent and be approved by Northampton County
Attorney.
   (C)   The subdivider shall submit a request for a bond estimate to guarantee
the installation and completion of said improvements to the subdivision agent,
accompanied by a certified engineer's estimate for the construction of all
improvements or two guaranteed bids for the same.
   (D)   The subdivision agent shall determine the amount of the bond, or the
letter of credit, after preparing or causing to be prepared a cost estimate of
all improvements, based upon unit prices for new public or private sector
construction in Northampton County, and a reasonable allowance for estimated
administrative costs, including inspection fees required, inflation, and
potential damage to existing roads or utilities, which shall not exceed 25% of
the estimated construction costs.
   (E)   In accordance with VA Code § 15.2-2241.1, and notwithstanding the
provisions of NCC §
156.001 et seq., provided the developer and the Board of Supervisors have
agreed on the delineation of phases within a proposed development, the
developer shall not be required to furnish to the governing body a certified
check, cash escrow, bond or letter of credit in the amount of the estimated
cost of construction of facilities to be dedicated for public use within each
section of the development until such time as construction plans are submitted
for the section in which such facilities are to be located.
   (F)   No certified check, cash escrow, bond, letter of credit or other
performance guarantee furnished pursuant to this chapter shall be required to
apply to, or include the cost of, any facility or improvement, unless such
facility or improvement is shown or described on the approved plat or plan of
the project for which such guarantee is being furnished. Furthermore, the
terms, conditions, and specifications contained in any agreement, contract,
performance agreement, or similar document, however described or delineated,
between the county and an owner or developer of property entered into pursuant
to this chapter in conjunction with any performance guarantee, as described in
this subsection, shall be limited to those items depicted or provided for in
the approved plan, plat, permit application, or similar document for which such
performance guarantee is applicable.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.122 SURETY FOR MAINTENANCE OF ROADS UNTIL ACCEPTED INTO STATE SYSTEM.
   (A)   If one or more public roads within a subdivision are proposed for
dedication or have been dedicated for public use and the road or roads, due to
factors other than quality of construction, is or are not acceptable into the
secondary system of state highways, the subdivider shall, prior to approval of
the plat or prior to the record release of surety as provided in §
156.123, provide surety for the maintenance of the road or roads as provided
herein.
   (B)   The subdivider shall furnish to the subdivision agent a certified
check, bond with surety satisfactory to Northampton County, or a letter of
credit satisfactory to Northampton County, in an amount sufficient for and
conditioned upon the maintenance of the road or roads until it is accepted into
the secondary system of state highways, and the Virginia Department of
Transportation assumes the subdivider's liability for maintenance of the road
or roads. The form and the type ofthe surety shall be to the satisfaction of
and be approved by Northampton County Attorney.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the term "maintenance" means maintenance
of the roads, curb, gutter, drainage facilities, utilities or other road
improvements, including the reconstruction and repaving of any public road or
private road which is required by the Virginia Department of Transportation
before the road is accepted into the secondary system of state highways, and
the correction of defects or damage, and the removal of snow, water or debris
so as to keep the road reasonably open for public usage.
(Ord. passed 11- 15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-
2020)
§ 156.123 RELEASE OF SURETY.
   A bond, escrow, letter of credit, or other surety required by this chapter
shall be released as provided in VA Code § 15.2-2245 by the Northampton County
Director of Finance, acting as the designated administrative agency of the
Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-2020; Am. Ord. passed 12-8-2020)
CHAPTER 157: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 158: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 159: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
159.101   Purpose and intent
   
159.102   Interpretation and application of floodplain
   
159.103   Compliance and liability
   
159.104   Abrogation and greater restrictions; severability
   
159.105   Definitions
   
159.106   Administration
   
159.107   Establishment of Floodplain Overlay Districts (FODs)
   
159.108   FOD provisions
   
159.109   Standards for the Coastal High Hazard FOD
   
159.110   Existing structures in floodplain areas
   
159.111   Variances
§ 159.101 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   VA Code § 15.2-2283 specifies that zoning ordinances shall be for the
general purpose of promoting the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public and of further accomplishing the objectives of § 15.2-2200 which
encourages localities to improve the public health, safety, convenience, and
welfare of their citizens. To these ends, flood ordinances shall be designed to
provide for safety from flood, to facilitate the provision of flood protection,
and to protect against loss of life, health, or property from flood.
   (B)   In accordance with these directed provisions, this chapter is
specifically adopted pursuant to the authority granted to localities by VA Code
§ 15.2-2280.
   (C)   This chapter is established for the purpose of preventing the loss of
life and property, the creation of health and safety hazards, the disruption of
commerce and governmental services, the extraordinary and unnecessary
expenditure of public funds for flood protection and relief, and the impairment
of the tax base by:
      (1)   Regulating uses, activities, and development which, alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, activities, and development,
will cause unacceptable increases in flood heights, velocities, and
frequencies;
      (2)   Restricting or prohibiting certain uses, activities, and
development from locating within districts subject to flooding;
      (3)   Requiring all those uses, activities, and developments that do
occur in flood-prone districts to be protected and/or flood-proofed against
flooding and flood damage; and
      (4)   Protecting individuals from buying land and structures which are
unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.102 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF FLOODPLAIN.
   These provisions shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of
Northampton County and identified as areas of special flood hazard identified
by the community or shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that is
provided to the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.103 COMPLIANCE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   No land shall hereafter be developed and no structure shall be
located, relocated, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or structurally
altered except in full compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter
and any other applicable ordinances and regulations which apply to uses within
the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such
as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not
imply that districts outside the floodplain district or that land uses
permitted within such district will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   Records of actions associated with administering this chapter will be
kept on file and maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of Northampton
County or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.104 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS; SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter supplements any
regulations currently in effect in flood-prone districts. However, any
underlying regulations shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that
such regulations are more restrictive than this chapter.
   (B)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter. The
remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect; and for this purpose,
the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.105 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions are specifically applicable to floodplain
management and supplement those set forth in §
154.003 Definitions of Chapter 154: Zoning Code.
   APPURTENANT OR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A non-residential structure which is on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures are not
to exceed 600 square feet.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevations of the base flood, that
is, the flood level that has a 1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given
year. The water surface elevation of the base flood in relation to the datum
specified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map. For the purposes of this
chapter, the base flood is the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   COASTAL A ZONE. Flood hazard areas that have been delineated as subject to
wave heights between 1.5 feet and three feet. The LiMWA designates the 1.5 foot
wave.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. That part of the coastal floodplain extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary coastal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms and seismic
sources. Wave heights during the base flood will generally be three feet or
more in height above the still water elevation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain,
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced before August 11, 1976. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES and PRE-FIRM.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
      (2)   The collapse or subsistence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in division (1) above of this definition.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP
(DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). A report by FEMA that examines, evaluates and
determines flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface
elevations, or an examination, evaluation and  determination of mudflow and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization in
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
licensed professional engineer, in accordance with standard engineering
practices that are accepted by the Virginia Department of Conservation and
Recreation and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency floods,
flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood profiles.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special
flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
and establishes that a land as defined by meets and bounds or structure is not
located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, floodplain and floodway
delineations, and planimetric features. A LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL
(LOMR-F), is a determination that a structure or parcel of land has been
elevated by fill above the base flood elevation and is, therefore, no longer
exposed to flooding associated with the base flood. In order to qualify for
this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in accordance
with the county's floodplain management regulations.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest natural elevation of the ground surface
next to the walls of a structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of Federal Code 44 C.F.R. 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988 to which base flood elevations shown on a community's FIRM
are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after August 11,
1976, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   POST FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after August 11, 1976.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURES. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before August 11, 1976.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL
DUNE occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. A building covered by a contract for flood
insurance that has  incurred flood-related damages on two occasions in a ten-
year period, in which the cost of the repair, on the average, equaled or
exceeded 25% of the market value of the structure at the time of each such
flood event; and at the time of the second incidence of flood-related damage,
the contract for flood insurance contains increased cost of compliance
coverage.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.  A structure that:
      (1)   Is covered under a contract for flood insurance made available
under NFIP; and
      (2)   Has incurred flood related damage -
         (a)   For which four or more separate claim payments have been made
under flood insurance coverage with the amount of each such claim exceeding
$5,000, and with the cumulative amount of such claims payments exceeding
$20,000; or
         (b)   For which at least two separate claims payments have been made
under such coverage, with the cumulative amount of such claims exceeding the
market value of the insured structure.
   SHALLOW FLOODING AREA. A special flood hazard area with base flood depths
from one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in § 159.107 of
this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction and substantial
improvement, under the Coastal Barriers Resource Act (P.L. 97-348), means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, substantial
improvement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part
of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF THE
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a  gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (3)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement as defined above, must comply with all
ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.106 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator [44 C.F.R. 59.22(b)]. The
Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the "Floodplain Administrator." The
Floodplain Administrator may:
      (1)   Do the work themselves. In the absence of a designated Floodplain
Administrator, the duties are conducted by the county chief executive officer.
      (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these regulations
to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors, and other
employees.
      (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
community or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations. Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve Northampton County of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. 59.22.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator [44 C.F.R.
60.3]. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review applications for permits to determine whether proposed
activities will be located in the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      (2)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide available base flood
elevation and flood hazard information.
      (3)   Review applications to determine whether proposed activities will
be reasonably safe from flooding and require new construction and substantial
improvements to meet the requirements of these regulations.
      (4)   Review applications to determine whether all necessary permits have
been obtained from the federal, state or local agencies from which prior or
concurrent approval is required; in particular, permits from state agencies for
any construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration of a dam, reservoir, or
waterway obstruction (including bridges, culverts, structures), any alteration
of a watercourse, or any change of the course, current, or cross section of a
stream or body of water, including any change to the 100-year frequency
floodplain of free-flowing non-tidal waters of the state.
      (5)   Verify that applicants proposing an alteration of a watercourse
have notified adjacent communities, the Department of Conservation and
Recreation (Division of Dam Safety and Floodplain Management), and other
appropriate agencies (VADEQ, USACE) and have submitted copies of such
notifications to FEMA.
      (6)   Advise applicants for new construction or substantial improvement
of structures that are located within an area of the Coastal Barrier Resources
System established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act that federal flood
insurance is not available on such structures; areas subject to this limitation
are shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Coastal Barrier Resource System Areas
(CBRS) or Otherwise Protected Areas (OPA).
      (7)   Approve applications and issue permits to develop in flood hazard
areas if the provisions of these regulations have been met, or disapprove
applications if the provisions of these regulations have not been met.
      (8)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, buildings, structures, and other
development for which permits have been issued to determine compliance with
these regulations or to determine if non-compliance has occurred or violations
have been committed.
      (9)   Review elevation certificates and require incomplete or deficient
certificates to be corrected.
      (10)   Submit to FEMA, or require applicants to submit to FEMA, data and
information necessary to maintain FIRMs, including hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analyses prepared by or for Northampton County, within six months
after such data and information becomes available if the analyses indicate
changes in base flood elevations.
      (11)   Maintain and permanently keep records that are necessary for the
administration of these regulations, including:
         (a)   Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Insurance Rate Maps (including
historic studies and maps and current effective studies and maps) and Letters
of Map Change; and
         (b)   Documentation supporting issuance and denial of permits,
elevation certificates, documentation of the elevation (in relation to the
datum on the FIRM) to which structures have been flood proofed, other required
design certifications, variances, and records of enforcement actions taken to
correct violations of these regulations.
      (12)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations, investigate
violations, issue notices of violations or stop work orders, and require permit
holders to take corrective action.
      (13)   Advise the Board of Zoning Appeals regarding the intent of these
regulations and, for each application for a variance, prepare a staff report
and recommendation.
      (14)   Administer the requirements related to proposed work on existing
buildings:
         (a)   Make determinations as to whether buildings and structures that
are located in flood hazard areas and that are damaged by any cause have been
substantially damaged.
         (b)   Make reasonable efforts to notify owners of substantially
damaged structures of the need to obtain a permit to repair, rehabilitate, or
reconstruct, and prohibit the non-compliant repair of substantially damaged
buildings except for temporary emergency protective measures necessary to
secure a property or stabilize a building or structure to prevent additional
damage.
      (15)   Undertake, as determined appropriate by the Floodplain
Administrator due to the circumstances, other actions which may include but are
not limited to: issuing press releases, public service announcements, and other
public information materials related to permit requests and repair of damaged
structures; coordinating with other federal, state, and local agencies to
assist with substantial damage determinations; providing owners of damaged
structures information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in
special flood hazard areas; and assisting property owners with documentation
necessary to file claims for increased cost of compliance coverage under NFIP
flood insurance policies.
      (16)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of the county have been modified and:
         (a)   Provide a map that clearly delineates the new corporate
boundaries or the new area for which the authority to regulate pursuant to
these regulations has either been assumed or relinquished through annexation;
and
         (b)   If the FIRM for any annexed area includes special flood hazard
areas that have flood zones that have regulatory requirements that are not set
forth in these regulations, prepare amendments to these regulations to adopt
the FIRM and appropriate requirements, and submit the amendments to the
governing body for adoption; such adoption shall take place at the same time as
or prior to the date of annexation and a copy of the amended regulations shall
be provided to Department of Conservation and Recreation (Division of Dam
Safety and Floodplain Management) and FEMA.
      (17)   Upon the request of FEMA, complete and submit a report concerning
participation in the NFIP which may request information regarding the number of
buildings in the SFHA, number of permits issued for development in the SFHA,
and number of variances issued for development in the SFHA.
      (18)   It is the duty of the County Floodplain Administrator to take into
account flood, mudslide and flood-related erosion hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions relating to land management and use
throughout the entire jurisdictional area of the county, whether or not those
hazards have been specifically delineated geographically (e.g., via mapping or
surveying).
   (C)   Use and interpretation of FIRMs [44 C.F.R. 60.3]. The Floodplain
Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed, as to the exact
location of special flood hazard areas, floodplain boundaries, and floodway
boundaries. The following shall apply to the use and interpretation of FIRMs
and data:
      (1)   Where field surveyed topography indicates that adjacent ground
elevations:
         (a)   Are below the base flood elevation, even in areas not delineated
as a special flood hazard area on a FIRM, the area shall be considered as
special flood hazard area and subject to the requirements of these regulations;
         (b)   Are above the base flood elevation, the area shall be regulated
as special flood hazard area unless the applicant obtains a Letter of Map
Change that removes the area from the SFHA.
      (2)   In FEMA-identified special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation and floodway data have not been identified and in areas where FEMA
has not identified SFHAs, any other flood hazard data available from a federal,
state, or other source shall be reviewed and reasonably used.
      (3)   Base flood elevations and designated floodway boundaries on FIRMs
and in FISs shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other sources if such sources show reduced floodway widths
and/or lower base flood elevations.
      (4)   Other sources of data shall be reasonably used if such sources show
increased base flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on
FIRMs and in FISs.
      (5)   If a Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Map and/or a Preliminary
Flood Insurance Study has been provided by FEMA:
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and shall replace the flood
hazard data previously provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by
FEMA, the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall be deemed the best
available data pursuant to §
159.107(C) and used where no base flood elevations and/or floodway areas are
provided on the effective FIRM.
         (c)   Prior to issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data is permitted where the preliminary
base flood elevations or floodway areas exceed the base flood elevations and/or
designated floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided by FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   Jurisdictional boundary changes [44 C.F.R. 59.22, 65.3].
      (1)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements for participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program. Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards. If the FIRM for any annexed area includes special flood hazard areas
that have flood zones that have regulatory requirements that are not set forth
in these regulations, prepare amendments to these regulations to adopt the FIRM
and appropriate requirements, and submit the amendments to the governing body
for adoption; such adoption shall take place at the same time as or prior to
the date of annexation and a copy of the amended regulations shall be provided
to Department of Conservation and Recreation (Division of Dam Safety and
Floodplain Management) and FEMA.
      (2)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. Part 59, Subpart B, § 59.22(a)(9)(v),
all NFIP participating communities must notify the Federal Insurance
Administration and optionally the State Coordinating Office in writing whenever
the boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the
community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area.
      (3)   In order that all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent
the community's boundaries, a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority, must be included with the notification.
   (E)   District boundary changes. The delineation of any of the floodplain
districts may be revised by the county where natural or man-made changes have
occurred and/or where more detailed studies have been conducted or undertaken
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or other qualified agency, or an individual
documents the need for such change. However, prior to any such change, approval
must be obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Initial interpretations of the
boundaries of the floodplain districts shall be made by the Zoning Officer.
Should a dispute arise concerning the boundaries of any of the districts, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary determination. The person
questioning or contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to present his or her case to the Board and to submit
his or her own technical evidence if he or she so desires.
   (G)   Submitting model backed technical data [44 C.F.R. 65.3]. A community's
base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from physical changes
affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such information becomes available, a community shall
notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency of the changes by submitting
technical or scientific data. The community may submit data via a LOMR. Such a
submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical changes
affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management
requirements will be based upon current data.
   (H)   Letters of Map Revision.
      (1)   When development in the floodplain will cause or causes a change in
the base flood elevation, the applicant, including state agencies, must notify
FEMA by applying for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and then a Letter of
Map Revision.
      (2)   Example cases:
         (a)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
         (b)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; and
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited
to installing culverts and bridges); 44 C.F.R. 65.3 and 65.6(a)(12).
   (I)   Penalty for violations [44 C.F.R. 60.2(e)].
      (1)   Any person who fails to comply with any of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or directions of the director of development or any
authorized employee of the county shall be guilty of the appropriate violation
and subject to the penalties therefor.
      (2)   The VA USBC addresses building code violations and the associated
penalties in
Chapter 150: Building Regulations. Violations and associated penalties of the
Northampton County Zoning Code are addressed in both sections of the Zoning
Code.
      (3)   In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby
reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations within a reasonable time. Any structure
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in noncompliance
with this chapter may be declared by the county to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such. Flood insurance may be withheld from structures constructed
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.107 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICTS (FODS).
   (A)   Description of types of FODs. Basis of FODs: FODs shall include areas
subject to inundation by waters of the 1% chance flood. The basis or the
delineation of these districts shall be the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for
Northampton County prepared by the FEMA, Federal Insurance Administration,
dated March 2, 2015, and as may be amended. The FIS and associated Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) are on file with the county.
   (B)   Northampton County may identify and regulate local flood hazard or
ponding areas that are not delineated on the FIRM. These areas may be
delineated on a "Local Flood Hazard Map" using best available topographic data
and locally derived information such as flood of record, historic high water
marks or approximate study methodologies.
   (C)   According to the FIRM, dated March 2, 2015, Northampton County does
not contain any floodways, A Zone, or AO/AH Zones.
      (1)   (a)   The Coastal Floodplain District shall be those areas
identified as AE Zones on the FIRM and the accompanying Flood Insurance Study.
Flood elevations are provided in these tidal floodplains.
         (b)   The AE or AH Zones on the FIRM accompanying the FIS shall be
those areas for which 1% annual chance flood elevations have been provided and
the floodway has not been delineated. The following provisions shall apply
within an AE or AH zone [44 CFR 60.3(c)] where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations. (Note: The requirement in 44 CFR 60.3(c)(10) only applies along
rivers, streams, and other watercourses where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations. The requirement does not apply along lakes, bays and estuaries, and
the ocean coast.)
         (c)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within the areas of special flood hazard, designated as Zones A1-30,
AE, or AH on the FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within Northampton County.
         (d)   Development activities in Zones Al-30, AE, or AH on the
Northampton County FIRM which increase the water surface elevation of the base
flood by more than one foot may be allowed, provided that the applicant first
applies - with the county's endorsement - for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision and receives the approval of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   The Coastal A Zone shall be those areas, as defined by the VA USBC
that are subject to wave heights between one and one-half feet and three feet,
and identified on the FIRM by the Limit of Moderate Wave Action (LiMWA) line.
      (3)   The coastal high hazard district shall be those areas identified as
VE Zones on the FIRM and the accompanying Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   Overlay concept.
      (1)   The FODs described above shall be overlays to the existing
underlying districts as shown on the official zoning ordinance map, and as
such, the provisions for the FODs shall serve as a supplement to the underlying
district provisions.
      (2)   If there is any conflict between the provisions or requirements of
the FODs and those of any underlying district, the more restrictive provisions
shall apply.
      (3)   In the event any provision concerning an FOD is declared
inapplicable or invalid as a result of any legislative or administrative
actions or judicial decision, the remaining provisions shall remain applicable.
   (E)   Official map. The boundaries of the FODs shall be as shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map which is declared to be a part of this chapter and
which shall be kept on file with the county.
   (F)   District boundary changes. The delineation of any of the FODs may be
revised by the county where natural or man-made changes have occurred and/or
where more detailed studies have been conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers or other qualified agency, or an individual documents the
need for such change. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Insurance Administration.
   (G)   Interpretation of FOD boundaries. Initial interpretations of the
boundaries of the FODs shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator. Should a
dispute arise concerning the boundaries of any FOD, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall make the necessary determination. The person questioning or contesting
the location of the FOD boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
present his or her case to the Board of Zoning Appeals and to submit his or her
own technical evidence if he or she so desires.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.108 FOD PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Permit and application requirements.
      (1)   Permit requirement. All uses, activities, and development occurring
within any FOD shall be undertaken only after the issuance of a zoning permit.
Such development shall be undertaken only in strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and with all other applicable codes and ordinances,
as amended, and
Chapter 156: Subdivision Code. Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall require all applications to include compliance with all
applicable state and federal laws and shall review all sites to assure they are
reasonably safe from flooding. Under no circumstances shall any use, activity,
and/or development adversely affect the capacity of the channels or floodways
of any watercourse, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (2)   Site plans and permit applications. All applications for
development within any FOD and all building permits issued for the floodplain
shall incorporate the following information:
         (a)   The elevation of the base flood at the site.
         (b)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or, in V
Zones, the lowest horizontal structural member.
         (c)   For structures to be flood-proofed (non-residential only), the
elevation to which the structure will be flood-proofed.
         (d)   Topographic information showing existing and proposed ground
elevations.
         (e)   Subdivision proposals.
            1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
            2.   All subdivision proposals shall have any public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
            3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (B)   General standards. In all FODs the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
according to the VA USBC and of this chapter to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities, including duct work, shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   In addition to provisions (1)-(8) above, in all special flood hazard areas,
the additional provisions shall apply:
      (9)   Prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of any channels or
of any watercourse, stream, etc., within this jurisdiction a permit shall be
obtained from the U.S. Corps of Engineers, the Virginia Department of
Environmental Quality, and the Virginia Marine Resources Commission (a joint
permit application is available from any of these organizations).
      (10)   In riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Department of
Conservation and Recreation (DCR) Department of Floodplain Management shall be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and copies of
such notifications shall be submitted to FEMA.
      (11)   The flood-carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion
of any watercourse shall be maintained.
   (C)   Specific standards. In all FODs the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) in an
AE Zone shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than
one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential building (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all
AE Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated provided that all areas
of the building components below the elevation corresponding to the BFE plus
two feet are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, and use structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
section are satisfied.
      (3)   Elevated buildings. In AE Zones, enclosed areas, of new
construction or substantially improved structures, which are below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall:
         (a)   Not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be
used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below the
regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (c)   In the Coastal High Hazard FOD, follow the standards for
elevation outlined in §
159.109, Standards for the Coastal High Hazard FOD, below;
         (d)   Include in AE Zones measures to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum design
criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding.
            2.   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding.
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit.
            4.   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than
one foot above the adjacent grade.
            5.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
opening coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
            6.   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (D)   Accessory structures in the SFHA shall comply with the elevation
requirements and other requirements of §
159.108(C)(2) if not elevated or dry floodproofed, shall:
      (1)   Not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Be limited to no more than 600 square feet in total floor area;
      (3)   Be useable only for parking of vehicles or limited storage;
      (4)   Be constructed with flood damage-resistant materials below the base
flood elevation;
      (5)   Be constructed and placed to offer the minimum resistance to the
flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Be anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Have electrical service and mechanical equipment elevated to or
above the base flood elevation;
      (8)   Be provided with flood openings which shall meet the following
criteria:
         (a)   There shall be a minimum of two flood openings on different
sides of each enclosed area; if a building has more than one enclosure below
the lowest floor, each such enclosure shall have flood openings on exterior
walls.
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings shall be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area (non-engineered flood
openings), or the flood openings shall be engineered flood openings that are
designed and certified by a licensed professional engineer to automatically
allow entry and exit of floodwater; the certification requirement may be
satisfied by an individual certification or an Evaluation Report issued by the
ICC Evaluation Service, Inc.
         (c)   The bottom of each flood opening shall be one foot or less above
the higher of the interior floor or grade, or the exterior grade, immediately
below the opening.
         (d)   Any louvers, screens or other covers for the flood openings
shall allow the automatic flow of floodwaters into and out of the enclosed
area.
   (E)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed, or substantially improved, on
individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision or in
substantially improved manufactured home parks or subdivisions, must meet all
the requirements for new construction, including elevation and anchoring.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision where no manufactured home has
sustained substantial damage from flooding must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.109 STANDARDS FOR THE COASTAL HIGH HAZARD FOD.
   The following provisions shall apply within the Coastal High Hazard FOD:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements in Zones VE shall be
elevated on pilings or columns so that:
      (1)   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation; and
      (2)   The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement due to the effects
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Wind
and water loading values shall each have a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (1% annual chance).
   (B)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review the structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall obtain the elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor (excluding pilings and columns) of all new and substantially
improved structures in Zones VE. The Floodplain Management Administrator shall
maintain a record of all such information.
   (D)   All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of mean
high tide.
   (E)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood-lattice work, or insect screening
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system. For the purpose of this chapter, a
breakaway wall shall have a design safe loading resistance of not less than ten
and no more than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed
a design safe loading resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design
or when so required by local codes) may be permitted only if a registered
professional engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less than that
which would occur during the base flood; and
      (2)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). Maximum wind and water
loading values to be used in this determination shall each have a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   (F)   The enclosed space below the lowest floor shall be used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Such space shall not be
partitioned into multiple rooms, temperature-controlled, or used for human
habitation.
   (G)   The use of fill for structural support of buildings is prohibited.
When fill is proposed in a coastal high hazard area for a purpose other than
support of a structure, appropriate engineering analyses shall be conducted to
evaluate the impacts of the fill prior to issuance of a development permit. If
such fill is permitted and results in a change in the boundary of the
floodplain, a letter of map revision must be filed in accordance with FEMA/
National Flood Insurance Program procedures.
   (H)   The man-made alteration of sand dunes which would increase potential
flood damage is prohibited.
   (I)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
within Zones VE on the Northampton County Flood Insurance Rate Map must meet
the standards of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015)
§ 159.110 EXISTING STRUCTURES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   A structure or use of a structure or premises which lawfully existed before
the enactment of these provisions, but which is not in conformity with these
provisions, may be continued subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Any modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement
of any kind to a structure and/or use located in any floodplain areas to an
extent or amount of less than 50% of its market value shall conform to the VA
USBC and the appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The modification, alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement
of any kind to a structure and/or use, regardless of its location in a
floodplain area to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value shall
be undertaken only in full compliance with this chapter and shall require the
entire structure to conform to the VA USBC and the appropriate provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
§ 159.111 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall be issued only upon (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, (ii) after the Board of Zoning Appeals has determined that
failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the
applicant, and (iii) after the Board of Zoning Appeals has determined that the
granting of such variance will not result in (a) unacceptable or prohibited
increases in flood heights, (b) additional threats to public safety, (c)
extraordinary public expense; and will not (d) create nuisances, (e) cause
fraud or victimization of the public, or (f) conflict with local laws or
ordinances.
   (B)   While the granting of variances generally is limited to a lot size
less than one-half acre, deviations from that limitation may occur. However, as
the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing a variance increases. Variances may be issued by the Board
of Zoning Appeals for new construction and substantial improvements to be
erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, in
conformance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the criteria of this section are met,
and the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety.
   (D)   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall satisfy all relevant factors and procedures specified in other
sections of the zoning ordinance and consider the following additional factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments. No variance shall be granted for any
proposed use, development, or activity within any Floodway District that will
cause any increase in the 1% chance flood elevation.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners.
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      (10)   The safety of access by ordinary and emergency vehicles to the
property in time of flood.
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
      (12)   The historic nature of a structure. Variances for repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures may be granted upon a determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may refer any application and accompanying
documentation pertaining to any request for a variance to any engineer or other
qualified person or agency for technical assistance in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, and the adequacy of the
plans for flood protection and other related matters. Any costs associated with
such referral shall be borne by the applicant.
   (F)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the granting of such will not result in (a) unacceptable or
prohibited increases in flood heights, (b) additional threats to public safety,
(c) extraordinary public expense; and will not (d) create nuisances, (e) cause
fraud or victimization of the public, or (f) conflict with local laws or
ordinances.
   (G)   Variances shall be issued only after the Board of Zoning Appeals has
determined that the variance will be the minimum required to provide relief.
   (H)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify the applicant for a variance,
in writing that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
1% chance flood elevation:
      (1)   Increases the risks to life and property; and
      (2)   Will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance.
   (I)   A record shall be maintained of the above notification as well as all
variance actions, including justification for the issuance of the variances.
Any variances that are issued shall be noted in the annual or biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   (J)   Variances to the provisions of the FOD may be applied for and
considered in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Northampton
County Zoning Code.
   (K)   A record shall be maintained of the above notification as well as all
variance actions, including justification for the issuance of the variances.
Any variances that are issued shall be noted in the annual or biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   (L)   No variance shall be granted for an accessory structure exceeding 600
square feet. (Note: See §
159.108(D)).
   (M)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2015; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES
   
II.   AGRICULTURAL-FORESTAL DISTRICTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      12-14-1981  Granting a franchise to Bayshore CATV, Inc. to operate a
                     community television system in the county.
                     Granting a franchise to 1st Commonwealth Communications,
—      12-14-1981  Inc. to operate a community television system in the
                     county.
                     Amending an ordinance granting a franchise to 1st
—      7-8-1985    Commonwealth Communications, Inc. to operate a community
                     television system.
                     Amending an ordinance granting a franchise to Bayshore
                     CATV, Inc. to operate a community television system in the
—      3-14-1988   county by eliminating the name Bayshore CATV, Inc. and
                     inserting in its place the name Benchmark Communications,
                     Inc.
 
TABLE II: AGRICULTURAL-FORESTAL DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Shep's End / Machipongo (87-01)
- -      10-13-87    Approved.
- -      12-14-87    C. L. Downing withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      9-8-93      Jeff Walker withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      3-14-94     Mary Dunton withdrawal of 1 ac.
- -      3-10-97     Taylor Sanderson withdrawal of 62 ac.
- -      11-12-97    Reviewed & re-approved by Board.
- -      9-10-01     Mary Bell Badger withdrawal of 12 ac.
- -      2-11-02     Mary Bell Badger withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      7-10-06     Readopted for ten years.
- -      8-11-09     Addition.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      9-12-17     Renewal.
- -      5-11-21     Withdrawal.
Bridgetown (89-01)
- -      1-14-91     Approved.
- -      3-12-01     William Chandler withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      6-11-01     Reviewed & re-approved by Board.
- -      5-7-02      Walter Parks withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      7-13-10     Renewal.
Happy Union (90-1)
- -      1-14-91     Approved.
- -      6-11-01     Reviewed & re-approved by Board.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-13-10     Renewal.
- -      7-12-11     Addition.
- -      8-11-20     Renewal.
Glebe (93-01)
- -      1-10-04     Approved.
- -      6-10-14     Retired, June 10, 2014.
Old Plantation (94-01)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      6-8-98      M. E. Jonns withdrawal of 5 ac.
- -      6-14-04     Phillips/Lewis, etc., withdrawal of 62.1 ac.
- -      6-14-04     Amended.
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
- -      7-8-25   Amendment.
Point Pleasant (94-02)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
- -      7-8-25      Amendment.
- -      7-8-25      Renewal for ten years.
Waverly (94-03)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      10-15-96    Clerical errors corrected.
- -      2-15-05     Terminated.
Picketts Harbor (94-04)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      10-15-96    Clerical errors corrected.
- -      12-8-97     John Yarros withdrawal of 1 ac.
- -      3-12-01     Ellyn Smith/Barry Downing withdrawal of 2.44 ac.
- -      2-11-02     Russell Kellam withdrawal 2.31 ac.
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
- -      7-8-25      Amendment.
- -      7-8-25      Renewal for ten years.
Glebe/Shooting Point (94-05)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      10-15-96    Clerical errors corrected.
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      6-10-14     Retired, June 10, 2014.
Church Neck (94-06)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      6-10-14     Additions.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
- -      7-8-25   Amendment.
Concord Wharf (94-07)
- -      2-13-95     Approved.
- -      10-15-96    Clerical errors corrected.
- -      3-12-01     David & Suzanne Tankard addition of 48.79 ac.
- -      4-10-02     Tankard Nurseries/Betsy Mapp/Stewart addition of 60, 315,
                     and 87.5 ac. Respectively
- -      2-15-05     Readopted for ten years.
- -      7-11-05     Amended.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
- -      7-8-25   Amendment.
Elkington (02-01)
- -      6-10-02     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      7-12-11     Renewal.
                     Approval of request for removal of a portion of property
- -      5-9-17      (14,764 sq. ft.) formerly identified as Tax Map 66-7-D
                     (and now a part of Tax Map 66-A-11).
- -      5-11-21     Addition.
- -      5-11-21     Renewal for ten years.
Jamesville (05-01)
- -      7-11-05     Adopted.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      10-13-15    Renewal.
-        7-8-25   Amendment.
Jacobus Point (05-02)
- -      7-11-05     Adopted.
- -      7-10-06     Amended.
- -      8-11-09     Addition.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      6-10-14     Addition.
- -      5-11-21     Addition.
- -      7-8-25      Amendment.
Herncliff-Pembroke (09-02)
- -      8-11-09     Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
- -      5-11-21     Addition.
09-01    5-9-23      Amended.
The Hermitage (09-03)
- -      8-11-09     Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-12-11     Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
- -      5-11-21     Addition.
Seaside (09-04)
- -      8-11-09     Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Mason Farm (09-05)
- -      8-11-09     Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-13-10     Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Holly Brook (09-06)
- -      8-11-09     Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Aspenwood (09-07)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Bayford (09-08)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Bayview (09-97)
- -      1-12-10     Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Bayview (09-09)
- -      1-12-10     Approved.
Brickhouse (09-10)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Brook wood (09-11)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Caserta (09-12)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Custis Farms (09-13)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      9-13-16     Amended.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Dalbys (09-14)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Deer Path (09-15)
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Edgehill (09-16)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Farmers Delight (09-17)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Fern Point (09-18)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Greens Creek (09-19)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Hare Valley (09-20)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
- -      12-10-19    Removal.
Hungars Creek (09-21)
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Locust Grove (09-22)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
Magotha (09-23)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      7-10-18     Renewal.
- -      7-8-25      Amendment.
Mapp-Machipongo (09-24)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Warehouse Creek (23-02)
23-02    5-9-23      Approved.
Milford Farm (09-25)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      7-12-11     Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Newsted Farm (09-26)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
- -      5-14-19     Addition.
- -      5-10-22     Amendment.
                    
Outten Farm (09-27)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Plantation South (09-28)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Pony Neck (09-29)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
- -      7-8-25      Amendment.
Savages Neck (09-30)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
TB Road (09-31)
- -      12-8-09     Approved.
- -      12-8-09     Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Turner-Hurtt (09-32)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Walker Bros. (09-33)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Webb Island (09-34)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Weirwood (09-35)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Woodland (09-36)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Woodside (09-37)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      11-24-09    Addition.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
Yeardley (09-38)
- -      11-24-09    Approved.
- -      8-14-18     Renewal.
White Hall (17-01)
2017-01  10-10-17    Approved.
Jamesville (16-01)
- -      5-10-22     Amended.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Virginia Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO VIRGINIA CODE
VA Code Cites Code Section
VA Code Cites                                         Code Section
1-13.39:2                                             10.16
3.2                                                   154.2.082
3.2-300                                               154.2.003
3.2-5100 et seq.                                      154.2.116
                                                      153.02,
3.2-6400                                              154.2.003,
                                                      154.2.082
3.2-6400 et seq.                                      154.2.116
3.2-6522                                              95.27
3.2-6546                                              95.04,
                                                      95.29
3.2-6555                                              95.20
3.2-6562                                              95.01
4.1-100                                               33.115
4.1-200 et seq.                                       154.2.116
6.1-301.53                                            150.55
Title 10.1, Chapter 11 (§§ 10.1-1100 et seq.)       153.05
10.1-1163(B)                                          153.05
Title 10.1, Chapter 14                                50.01
10.1-1700 et seq.                                     155.012
10.1-2100 et seq.                                     156.007
10.1-2109                                             154.2.003
Title 13.1, Chapter 3, Article 2                      110.17
15.2-900                                              94.04,
                                                      150.55
15.2-902                                              94.02
15.2-904                                              Ch. 92
15.2-906                                              94.04
15.2-907.1                                            94.04
15.2-922.1                                            97.01,
                                                      97.11
15.2-927 et seq.                                      50.01
15.2-958.5                                            33.015
15.2-1115                                             150.55
15.2-1200                                             91.01,
                                                      95.03
15.2-1413                                             31.07
15.2-1429                                             97.99,
                                                      110.17
15.2-1432                                             150.99
15.2-1613.1                                           31.02
15.2-1716                                             70.04
15.2-1716.1                                           70.05
15.2-1719                                             31.04
15.2-1720                                             31.04
15.2-2108                                             113.02
15.2-2126 et seq.                                     156.002
15.2-2149 et seq.                                     156.002
Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VI                    156.012
                                                      154.2.001,
Title 15.2, Chapter 22, Article VII                   154.2.080,
                                                      154.2.998
                                                      154.2.002,
15.2-2200                                             154.2.164 ,
                                                      159.101
                                                      154.2.003,
15.2-2201                                             154.2.161,
                                                      156.002
                                                      154.2.003,
                                                      154.2.042,
                                                      154.2.043,
15.2-2204                                             154.2.161,
                                                      154.2.226,
                                                      154.2.228,
                                                      154.2.229
15.2-2208                                             154.2.999
15.2-2209                                             154.2.999
15.2-2223                                             154.2.002
15.2-2240 et seq.                                     156.001,
                                                      156.021
                                                      156.008,
15.2-2241                                             156.022,
                                                      156.023,
                                                      156.082
15.2-2241.1                                           156.121
15.2-2242                                             156.013,
                                                      156.048
15.2-2242(1)                                          156.013
15.2-2245                                             156.123
15.2-2251                                             156.025
15.2-2252                                             156.025
15.2-2253                                             156.025
15.2-2254                                             156.023
15.2-2259                                             156.024,
                                                      156.037
15.2-2258 - 15.2-2261                                 154.2.045
                                                      156.037,
15.2-2260                                             156.038,
                                                      156.039
15.2-2261                                             156.044
15.2-2264                                             156.047
                                                      154.2.115,
15.2-2271                                             156.011,
                                                      156.047,
                                                      156.084
                                                      156.011,
15.2-2272                                             156.046,
                                                      156.047,
                                                      156.084
15.2-2280                                             154.2.003,
                                                      159.101
15.2-2281                                             154.2.003
                                                      53.01,
                                                      154.2.002,
                                                      154.2.042,
                                                      154.2.043,
15.2-2283                                             154.2.105,
                                                      154.2.161,
                                                      154.2.162,
                                                      154.2.164,
                                                      159.101
                                                      154.2.002,
                                                      154.2.042,
                                                      154.2.043,
15.2-2284                                             154.2.105,
                                                      154.2.161,
                                                      154.2.162,
                                                      156.002
                                                      33.012,
15.2-2286                                             154.2.043,
                                                      154.2.998
15.2-2286(A)(4)                                       154.2.999
15.2-2286(A)(5)                                       154.2.998,
                                                      154.2.999
15.2-2286(A)(8)                                       154.2.045
15.2-2286(3)                                          154.2.003
15.2-2291                                             154.2.004
15.2-2294                                             154.2.162
15.2-2299                                             154.2.044,
                                                      154.2.998
15.2-2303                                             154.2.044
                                                      94.04,
15.2-2306                                             154.2.023,
                                                      154.2.161
                                                      154.2.003,
15.2-2307                                             154.2.020,
                                                      154.2.250
                                                      154.2.022,
15.2-2308                                             154.2.225,
                                                      154.2.227,
                                                      154.2.228
15.2-2309                                             154.2.228
15.2-2311                                             154.2.020,
                                                      154.2.998
15.2-2311(C)                                          154.2.020
15.2-2314                                             154.2.230
Title 15.2, Chapter 49                                30.01
15.2-4904                                             30.01
15.2-4913                                             30.01
Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9, §§ 6.1-278 et seq70.02
Title 16.1, Chapter 11, Article 9                     70.02
17.1-223                                              156.023
17.1-279.1                                            31.03
17.1-291                                              156.023
Title 18.2, Chapter 7                                 70.02
Title 18.2, Chapter 7, Article 2                      70.02
18.2-36.1                                             70.04
18.2-46.6                                             70.05
18.2-51.4                                             70.04
18.2-83                                               70.05
18.2-84                                               70.05
18.2-266                                              70.04
18.2-266.1                                            70.04
Title 25                                              150.55
28.2-104.1                                            151.20
28.2-104.1(B)                                         151.03,
                                                      152.03
                                                      151.01,
                                                      151.20,
                                                      151.25,
                                                      151.41,
Title 28.2, Chapter 13                                151.42,
                                                      151.44 -
                                                      151.48,
                                                      151.50 ,
                                                      152.20
28.2-1300 et seq.                                     151.01,
                                                      152.20
28.2-1300                                             154.2.003
28.2-1301                                             151.25
28.2-1303                                             151.02,
                                                      152.02
28.2-1308                                             151.25
28.2-1400                                             154.2.003
28.2-1401                                             152.25
28.2-1408                                             152.25
                                                      152.01,
Title 28.2, Chapter 14                                152.25,
                                                      152.28
29.1-528                                              95.03
29.1-529                                              95.03
29.1-738                                              70.04
29.1-738.02                                           70.04
29.1-744                                              96.02
33.1-346                                              50.01
36-27(b)                                              150.55
36-49.1:1 et seq.                                     150.55
36-49.1:1                                             94.04
36-85.3 - 36-85.11                                    154.2.003
36-97                                                 153.02,
                                                      154.2.003
36-98 et seq.                                         150.51
36-105                                                150.01,
                                                      154.2.003
36-105.1                                              150.45
36-105.1(C)(1)                                        150.47
36-105.1(C)(3)                                        150.99
Title 38.2                                            112.01
42.1-82                                               156.070
Title 45.2                                            153.05
Title 46.2                                            70.02,
                                                      70.09
Title 46.2, Ch. 16                                    154.2.003
46.2-113                                              70.99
46.2-114                                              92.03
46.2-300 et seq.                                      70.04
46.2-341.24                                           70.04
46.2-395                                              92.03
46.2-600 et seq.                                      72.04,
                                                      72.05
46.2-604                                              92.03
46.2-730                                              33.008
46.2-734                                              33.008
46.2-739                                              33.008
46.2-752                                              33.008
46.2-852 et seq.                                      70.04
46.2-894                                              70.04
46.2-1200                                             Ch. 92,
                                                      92.06
46.2-1202                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1203                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1207                                             92.08
46.2-1209                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1211                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1212                                             70.08
46.2-1213                                             70.09,
                                                      Ch. 92
46.2-1214                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1215                                             Ch. 92
46.2-1220                                             72.05
Title 46.2, Chapter 13                                70.02
46.2-1313                                             10.16
46.2-1600                                             92.03,
                                                      92.07
51.5-40.1                                             95.23
51.5-98                                               110.17
53.1-120                                              31.03
Title 54.1, Chapter 4, Article 1 (54.1-400 et seq.)   153.02
54.1-2200                                             153.02
54.1-3401                                             154.2.003
55-79.41                                              110.17
55-210.1                                              31.04
56-556 et seq.                                        110.17
Title 58.1                                            33.006,
                                                      154.2.116
58.1-600 et seq.                                      33.118
58.1-605                                              33.001
58.1-605.1                                            33.002
58.1-606                                              33.002
58.1-606.1                                            33.002
58.1-1200 et seq.                                     110.17
58.1-1204                                             33.006
58.1-1205                                             33.006
58.1-1207                                             33.006
58.1-1211                                             33.006
58.1-1212                                             33.006
58.1-1213                                             33.006
58.1-1718                                             33.013
58.1-2401                                             33.008
58.1-2402                                             33.008
58.1-2500 et seq.                                     110.17
Title 58.1, Chapter 26                                33.096
Title 58.1, Chapter 31, Article 1                     33.122
Title 58.1, Chapter 31, Article 2                     33.123
58.1-3226.1                                           33.003
58.1-3503                                             92.01
58.1-3504                                             33.025,
                                                      33.026
58.1-3505                                             33.004
58.1-3506A(19), B                                     33.008
58.1-3507                                             33.004
58.1-3509                                             110.17
58.1-3510                                             110.17
58.1-3523                                             33.180
58.1-3606.1                                           110.17
58.1-3651                                             33.032
58.1-3700 et seq.                                     110.17
58.1-3701                                             110.16
58.1-3703(C)(10)                                      33.141
58.1-3704                                             110.17
58.1-3712                                             110.17
58.1-3713                                             110.17
58.1-3715                                             110.17
58.1-3718                                             110.17
58.1-3731                                             110.17
58.1-3805                                             33.013
58.1-3812 through 58.1-3816.2                         33.064
58.1-3812                                             33.140
58.1-3813.1                                           33.095
58.1-3814                                             33.041
58.1-3906                                             33.999
58.1-3916                                             33.183
58.1-3940 et seq.                                     94.03 ,
                                                      150.55
58.1-3965 et seq.                                     94.03 ,
                                                      150.55
58.1-3980                                             33.009
Title 62.1                                            154.2.003
Title 62.1, Chapter 2.2 (§§ 62.1-13.21 et seq.)     152.01
Title 62.1, Chapter 25                                53.01
62.1-44.3                                             153.02
62.1-44.15                                            153.02
62.1-44.15:24 et seq.                                 154.2.163
62.1-44.15:34                                         153.06,
                                                      153.07
Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article 2.4                  153.02
  (§§ 62.1-44.15:51 et seq.)
62.1-44.15:51 et seq.                                 154.2.163
62.1-44.15:52                                         153.03,
                                                      153.09
62.1-44.15:53                                         153.03
62.1-44.15:54                                         153.01,
                                                      153.03
                                                      153.02,
62.1-44.15:55                                         153.07,
                                                      153.09,
                                                      153.10
62.1-44.15:58                                         153.10
62.1-44.15:60                                         153.09
62.1-44.15:67                                         154.2.083
Title 62.1, Chapter 3.1, Article 2.5                  153.02
   (§§ 62.1-44.15:67 et seq.)
62.1-44.15:67 et seq.                                 153.05,
                                                      154.2.163
62.1-44.15:74                                         153.02
                                                      53.01,
62.1-255                                              53.02,
                                                      154.2.002
63.2-100                                              154.2.003
64.1-134                                              33.013
64.1-135                                              33.013
                                                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         33.013
-        - -         33.013
-        --          150.01 
                     152.01 -
                     152.03,
-        - -         152.20 -
                     152.28,
                     152.99
-        2-4-1957    90.20 -
                     90.25
-        6-6-1966    33.001
-        6-4-1973    30.03
-        4-7-1975    90.01 -
                     90.07
-        2-12-1979   33.025,
                     33.026
-        8-11-1980   33.040 -
                     33.045
-        - -1981     33.001
-        8-27-1981   113.01,
                     113.02
-        8-13-1984   33.060 -
                     33.064
                     91.20 -
-        9-10-1984   91.25,
                     91.99
-        6-10-1985   33.075 -
                     33.083
-        2-9-1987    31.06
-        10-13-87    T.S.O. II
-        12-14-87    T.S.O. II
                     33.095 -
-        3-13-1989   33.099,
                     33.999
-        8-13-1990   31.03
-        1-14-1991   T.S.O. II
-        1-14-1991   T.S.O. II
                     95.03,
-        4-8-1991    150.20 -
                     150.31
-        6-11-1992   31.03
                     70.01 -
                     70.03,
-        8-12-1991   70.08,
                     70.09,
                     70.99
-        8-12-1991   72.01 -
                     72.03
-        3-9-1992    33.003
-        6-11-1992   31.02
-        11-20-1992  33.004
                     151.01 -
                     151.03,
                     151.20 -
-        4-12-1993   151.28,
                     151.40 -
                     151.50,
                     151.99
-        6-14-1993   95.03
-        9-8-1993    T.S.O. II
-        1-10-1994   T.S.O. II
-        3-14-1994   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        2-13-1995   T.S.O. II
-        9-11-1995   95.03
-        1-9-1996    95.04
-        10-15-1996  T.S.O. II
-        10-15-1996  T.S.O. II
-        10-15-1996  T.S.O. II
-        10-15-1996  T.S.O. II
-        3-10-1997   T.S.O. II
-        4-14-1997   33.005,
                     33.006
                     95.20,
                     95.22,
-        10-14-1997  95.23,
                     95.26 -
                     95.29,
                     95.31
-        11-12-1997  T.S.O. II
-        12-8-1997   T.S.O. II
-        2-9-1998    33.097
-        9-16-1998   94.01
-        10-13-1998  33.005
-        1-25-1999   33.005
-        2-8-2000    30.01
-        9-11-2000   33.041
-        11-6-2000   33.007
-        3-12-2001   T.S.O. II
-        3-12-2001   T.S.O. II
-        3-12-2001   T.S.O. II
-        5-23-2001   33.027
-        6-11-2001   T.S.O. II
-        6-11-2001   T.S.O. II
-        7-9-2001    33.031
-        9-10-2001   T.S.O. II
-        1-14-2002   33.028
-        2-11-2002   T.S.O. II
-        2-11-2002   T.S.O. II
-        4-8-2002    130.01
-        4-10-2002   T.S.O. II
-        5-7-2002    T.S.O. II
-        5-13-2002   31.04,
                     95.03
                     31.02,
                     31.03,
-        6-10-2002   31.05,
                     70.02,
                     150.01
-        6-10-2002   T.S.O. II
-        6-27-2002   33.011
-        10-15-2002  95.23
-        1-13-2003   33.115 -
                     33.128
-        3-10-2003   33.140 -
                     33.148
-        4-14-2003   33.009,
                     91.01
-        5-12-2003   33.012,
                     33.029
-        6-9-2003    70.02
-        6-23-2003   53.01 -
                     53.05
-        7-16-2003   33.009
-        8-30-2003   33.027
-        4-12-2004   33.125
-        5-10-2004   95.05
-        6-14-2004   33.028
-        6-14-2004   33.031
-        6-14-2004   70.02
-        6-14-2004   150.01
-        6-14-2004   T.S.O. II
-        6-14-2004   T.S.O. II
-        7-12-2004   31.05
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        2-15-2005   T.S.O. II
-        4-11-2005   33.028
-        4-11-2005   94.03
-        4-11-2005   33.031
-        5-9-2005    32.01
-        6-13-2005   33.097
-        6-13-2005   70.02
-        7-11-2005   155.001 -
                     155.012
-        7-11-2005   T.S.O. II
-        7-11-2005   T.S.O. II
-        7-11-2005   T.S.O. II
-        8-8-2005    33.014
-        11-7-2005   33.180 -
                     33.183
-        12-12-2005  33.027
-        1-11-2006   33.027
-        1-11-2006   33.028
-        1-11-2006   32.01
-        1-11-2006   150.01
-        7-10-2006   70.02
-        7-10-2006   T.S.O. II
-        7-10-2006   T.S.O. II
-        8-14-2006   32.01
-        11-15-2006  33.014
                     156.001 -
                     156.012,
                     156.020 -
                     156.024,
                     156.035 -
                     156.047,
                     156.060 -
-        11-15-2006  156.062,
                     156.070,
                     156.071,
                     156.080 -
                     156.083,
                     156.095 -
                     156.111,
                     156.120 -
                     156.123
-        3-12-2007   32.01
-        5-14-2007   31.03
-        6-11-2007   30.04
-        6-11-2007   70.02
-        6-11-2007   155.001 -
                     155.012
                     33.075 -
-        6-19-2007   33.084,
                     33.999
                     33.075 -
-        8-13-2007   33.084,
                     33.999
                     97.01 -
-        9-24-2007   97.14,
                     97.99
-        10-9-2007   33.008
-        11-14-2007  96.01 -
                     96.04
                     97.01 -
-        11-14-2007  97.14,
                     97.99
-        11-14-2007  155.001 -
                     155.012
-        6-10-2008   70.02
08-01    7-8-2008    156.107
09-01    3-10-2009   156.097
- -      8-11-2009   70.02
- -      8-11-2009   33.008
- -      8-11-2009   150.01
87-01    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
05-02    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
09-02    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
09-03    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
09-04    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
09-05    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
09-06    8-11-2009   T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2009  110.15 -
                     110.17
90-01    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
94-02    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
94-04    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
94-05    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
94-06    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
94-07    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
05-02    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
05-01    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-02    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-03    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-05    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-06    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-04    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-07    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-08    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-10    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-11    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-12    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-14    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-15    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-17    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-18    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-20    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-21    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-22    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-24    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-25    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-26    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-27    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-28    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-29    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-32    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-33    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-34    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-35    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-36    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-37    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
09-38    11-24-2009  T.S.O. II
                     150.45 -
- -      12-8-2009   150.56,
                     150.99
02-01    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-02    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-13    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-16    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-19    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-23    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-30    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-31    12-8-2009   T.S.O. II
09-09    1-12-2010   T.S.O. II
- -      1-12-2010   T.S.O. II
- -      6-8-2010    70.02
- -      6-28-2010   30.05
- -      7-13-2010   T.S.O. II
- -      7-13-2010   T.S.O. II
- -      7-13-2010   T.S.O. II
- -      2-8-2011    33.032
- -      4-12-2011   33.032
- -      5-10-2011   32.01
- -      6-14-2011   33.032
- -      6-14-2011   150.01
- -      6-14-2011   70.02
- -      6-14-2011   33.008
- -      6-14-2011   110.17
- -      6-14-2011   31.05
- -      7-12-2011   T.S.O. II
- -      7-12-2011   30.03
- -      8-9-2011    33.013
- -      9-26-2011   32.01
- -      9-26-2011   32.01
- -      10-18-2011  155.013
                     33.075 -
- -      1-10-2012   33.084,
                     33.999
- -      5-8-2012    30.05
- -      10-9-2012   156.009
--       11-20-2012  33.032
- -      3-12-2013   Repealing 30.02
- -      5-14-2013   30.04
- -      5-14-2013   Repealing 31.01
                     33.001,
- -      5-14-2013   33.014,
                     33.040 -
                     33.045; Repealing 33.002, 33.030
- -      5-14-2013   33.005
- -      5-14-2013   33.006
- -      5-14-2013   33.009
- -      5-14-2013   33.027
                     50.01 -
- -      5-14-2013   50.12,
                     50.99
                     155.004,
- -      5-14-2013   155.005,
                     155.007,
                     155.013
                     151.02,
                     151.03,
- -      5-14-2013   151.20,
                     151.25,
                     151.48,
                     151.49
                     152.01,
- -      5-14-2013   152.02,
                     152.25
- -      6-11-2013   70.02
- -      7-9-2013    Repealing 30.06
                     70.08,
- -      11-19-2013  70.09,
                     70.99;
                     Repealing 70.04 - 70.07, 70.10, 70.11
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 112.01 - 112.06
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 110.01
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 111.01 - 111.12, 111.99
- -      11-19-2013  97.01
                     95.20,
                     95.27,
- -      11-19-2013  95.28;
                     Repealing 95.01, 95.02, 95.21, 95.24, 95.25, 95.30, 95.32,
                     95.33, 95.45 - 95.47
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 71.01 - 71.11
- -      11-19-2013  92.01 -
                     92.09; Repealing 92.10, 92.20 - 92.29, 92.99
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 51.01, 51.20 - 51.28, 51.99
- -      11-19-2013  Repealing 52.01
- -      11-19-2013  33.012
- -      11-19-2013  33.027
- -      6-10-2014   T.S.O. II
- -      6-10-2014   T.S.O. II
- -      7-8-2014    32.01
- -      8-12-2014   33.008
- -      8-12-2014   72.04
- -      8-12-2014   98.01 -
                     98.09
- -      9-9-2014    33.027
- -      9-9-2014    95.23
- -      10-14-2014  156.071
- -      11-12-2014  Repealing 33.015
- -      2-10-2015   72.05
- -      2-10-2015   95.01
- -      2-10-2015   156.038
- -      2-23-2015   159.101 -
                     159.111; Repealing 154.162
- -      4-27-2015   33.016
- -      5-12-2015   159.101 -
                     159.111
- -      6-9-2015    150.01
- -      10-13-2015  31.03
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
- -      10-13-2015  T.S.O. II
                     154.2.001 -
                     154.2.004,
                     154.2.020 -
                     154.2.026,
                     154.2.040 -
                     154.2.045,
                     154.2.060 -
                     154.2.066,
                     154.2.080 -
                     154.2.085,
                     154.2.100 -
                     154.2.119,
                     154.2.125 -
                     154.2.128,
                     154.2.140 -
- -      4-12-2016   154.2.147,
                     154.2.160 -
                     154.2.164,
                     154.2.175 -
                     154.2.178,
                     154.2.190 -
                     154.2.198,
                     154.2.205 -
                     154.2.213,
                     154.2.225 -
                     154.2.230,
                     154.2.245 -
                     154.2.250,
                     154.2.998,
                     154.2.999;
                     Ch. 154.2 App. A -
                     E
- -      5-10-2016   Repealing Ch. 157
- -      7-12-2016   150.01
- -      8-9-2016    70.04
- -      8-9-2016    70.05
- -      9-13-2016   154.2.003;
                     Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      9-13-2016   T.S.O. II
2016-08  10- -2016   154.2.082
2016-09  10- -2016   154.2.191
2016-10  11- -2016   154.2.142
- -      4-11-2017   154.2.042
                     95.04,
                     95.20,
- -      5-9-2017    95.26,
                     95.27,
                     95.29
- -      9-12-2017   T.S.O. II
2017-01  10-10-2017  T.S.O. II
- -      12-12-2017  154.2.003
- -      12-12-2017  Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      1-9-2018    150.01
                     154.2.003,
- -      2-3-2018    154.2.246,
                     Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      5-8-2018    32.01
- -      6-12-2018   33.030
- -      6-12-2018   94.04
- -      6-12-2018   150.55   
- -      7-10-2018   32.01
- -      7-10-2018   T.S.O. II
2018-02  8-14-2018   154.2.193
2018-03  8-14-2018   154.2.003
- -      8-14-2018   T.S.O. II
                     154.2.003,
2018-05  4-9-2019    154.2.082,
                     154.2.120
2019-02  4-9-2019    Ch. 154.2, App. A,
                     D
- -      5-14-2019   T.S.O. II
- -      7-9-2019    33.077
- -      9-10-2019   33.032
- -      12-10-2019  T.S.O. II
                     154.2.003,
2019-04  2-11-2020   154.2.121,
                     Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      3-24-2020   31.07
- -      7-14-2020   31.03
- -      8-11-2020   30.01
- -      8-11-2020   T.S.O. II
- -      9-8-2020    154.2.042
                     151.03,
- -      10-13-2020  151.20,
                     151.25
                     156.001 -
                     156.013,
                     156.020 -
                     156.025,
                     156.035 -
                     156.048,
                     156.060 -
- -      11-10-2020  156.062,
                     156.070,
                     156.071,
                     156.080 -
                     156.083,
                     156.095 -
                     156.111,
                     156.120 -
                     156.123
- -      12-8-2020   33.002
- -      12-8-2020   33.002
- -      5-11-2021   T.S.O. II
2021-02  7-13-2021   154.2.142
- -      11-23-2021  32.01
- -      4-12-2022   30.02
                     33.200 -
- -      4-12-2022   33.214,
                     33.999
- -      5-10-2022   33.200
- -      5-10-2022   T.S.O. II
- -      5-10-2022   T.S.O. II
- -      5-10-2022   154.2.003,
                     Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      7-26-2022   33.027
- -      1-10-2023   156.044,
                     156.071
09-01    5-9-2023    T.S.O. II
23-02    5-9-2023    T.S.O. II
- -      5-9-2023    154.2.127
- -      7-11-2023   33.117
- -      9-12-2023   94.01
- -      10-10-2023  159.101 -
                     159.111
- -      11-15-2023  154.2.112,
                     Ch. 154.2, App. D
- -      12-11-2023  151.01 -
                     151.28
- -      12-11-2023  152.01 -
                     152.27
                     154.2.003,
- -      2-13-2024   154.2.045,
                     154.2.163
                     154.2.003,
- -      3-12-2024   154.2.190 -
                     154.2.198
- -      4-9-2024    153.01 -
                     153.11
- -      4-9-2024    154.2.002
                     154.2.003,
- -      4-9-2024    154.2.108,
                     154.2.126
- -      4-9-2024    153.01 -
                     153.11
- -      4-9-2024    154.2.002
                     154.2.003,
- -      4-9-2024    154.2.108,
                     154.2.126
- -      5-14-2024   154.2.003,
                     Ch. 154.2, App. A
- -      5-14-2024   154.2.127
- -      8-13-2024   33.031
- -      1-14-2025   33.015
- -      2-25-2025   33.027
- -      3-11-2025   33.010
- -      7-8-2025    150.01
- -      7-8-2025    T.S.O. II
                    
 
