EAST LYME, CONNECTICUT
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through April 16, 2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME
Sec. 1.4 affects some of these ordinances and resolutions: Special acts and
ordinances or portions thereof inconsistent with this charter
and superseded by it shall have no further force or effect after the effective
date of this charter.
Revised 2023
CHAPTER 1 - INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS
Section
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Rights and Obligations
   
1.3   General Grant of Powers
   
1.4   Authority and Purpose of Charter
   
1.5   Definitions
1.1   Incorporation
   All of the inhabitants dwelling within the territorial limits of the Town of
East Lyme, as said limits now are or may hereafter be constituted by law, shall
continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of “Town of East
Lyme,” hereinafter called “the town,” and as such shall have perpetual
succession and may hold and exercise all powers and privileges heretofore
vested in said town and not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter,
the additional powers and privileges herein conferred and all powers and
privileges presently or hereafter conferred upon towns under the general laws
of the State of Connecticut.
1.2.   Rights and Obligations
   All property interest, both real and personal, all actions, rights and
causes of action and rights of every description and all securities and liens
vested or inchoate which the town possesses as of the effective date of this
charter shall be continued in said town. The town shall continue to be liable
for all debts and obligations of every kind for which the town shall be liable
on said date. Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the right of the town
to collect any assessments, charge, debt or lien. If any contract has been
entered into by said town prior to the effective date of this charter or any
bond or undertaking has been given by or in favor of said town which contains a
provision that the same may be enforced by any commission, board, department or
officer therein named, which is abolished by the provisions of this charter,
such contracts, bonds or undertakings shall be in no manner impaired but shall
continue in full force and effect and the powers conferred and the duties
imposed with reference to the same upon any such commission, board, department
or officer shall, except as otherwise provided in this charter, thereafter be
exercised and discharged by the board of selectmen of said town.
1.3.   General Grant of Powers
   In addition to all powers granted to the town under the constitution and
general statutes, the town shall have all powers granted by this charter, all
powers fairly implied in or incident to the powers expressly granted and all
other powers incident to the management, government, and affairs of the town,
including the power to enter into contracts with the United States or any
federal agency, the State of Connecticut or any political subdivision, agency
or instrumentality thereof for purposes not prohibited by law. The enumeration
of specific powers in this and any other chapter of this charter shall not be
construed as limiting this general grant of powers but shall be considered as
in addition thereto.
1.4.   Authority and Purpose of Charter
   This charter shall be the organic law of the town in the administration of
its local affairs and serves to advance the effectiveness and efficiency of
Town governance. Special acts and ordinances or portions thereof inconsistent
with this charter and superseded by it shall have no further force or effect
after the effective date of this charter. Other special acts affecting the
town, and all other ordinances and resolutions duly adopted and in force before
the effective date of this charter, remain in force.
1.5.   Definitions
   1.5.1.   The term “board” or “boards” as used in this charter shall be
deemed to include all boards, commissions, agencies and committees, except as
otherwise specified.
   1.5.2.   The terms “prescribed by law” and “provided by law” as used in this
charter shall be deemed to mean prescribed or provided by the general statutes,
by charter, and by ordinance.
   1.5.3.   The term “enact” or “enactment” as used in Chapter 3 of this
charter shall be deemed to include the adoption, amendment or repeal of an
ordinance.
   1.5.4.   The term “department” as used in Section 6.3. of this charter shall
be deemed to mean each board, commission, committee and agency of the town for
which an appropriation was made in the annual budget; each official who is not
a member of a board, commission, committee or agency for whom an appropriation
was made in the annual budget; each separate function of the town for which the
Board of Selectmen is responsible.
CHAPTER 2 - ELECTIONS AND ELECTIVE OFFICERS
Section
   
2.1   Town Elections
   
2.2   Voting Districts
   
2.3   Eligibility
   
2.4   Minority Representation
   
2.5   Vacancies in Elective Offices
   
2.6   Records
   
2.7   Terms of Office of Board of Selectmen
   
2.8   Four-Year Term Offices; Organization; Compensation
   
2.9   Board of Education
   
2.10   Board of Finance
   
2.11   Planning Commission
   
2.12   Zoning Commission
   
2.13   Board of Assessment Appeals
   
2.14   Additional Elective Boards and Commissions
   
2.15   Alternate Members of the Planning Commission
   
2.16   Alternate Members of the Zoning Commission
2.1.   Town Elections
   2.1.1.   A meeting of the electors of the Town of East Lyme, hereafter
called “the regular town election”, shall take place on the Tuesday following
the first Monday in November, 1965 and biennially thereafter. Special town
elections may be called from time to time in accordance with the general
statutes.
   2.1.2.   All elective town officers shall take office on the first Monday of
December next succeeding their election and they shall continue in office until
their successors have been chosen and have qualified.
2.2.   Voting Districts
   The number of voting districts in the town shall be as determined by the
legislative body as provided by law.
2.3.   Eligibility
   No person who is not at the time of his election a resident elector of the
Town of East Lyme shall be eligible for election to any town office, and any
person ceasing to be a resident elector of the town shall thereupon cease to
hold elective office in the town and the office shall be deemed vacant. All
elective officers shall be sworn before taking office and the officer
administering the oath shall record such fact in the office of the town clerk.
2.4.   Minority Representation
   Membership on all boards provided for by this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the minority representation law as set forth in the general
statutes.
2.5.   Vacancies in Elective Offices
   2.5.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall fill by appointment a vacancy in an
elective office within thirty days from the time that the office becomes
vacant, except as otherwise provided by law.
   2.5.2.   A vacancy occurring on the Board of Education, Board of Finance,
Planning Commission, Zoning Commission and Board of Assessment Appeals shall be
filled by vote of the remaining members, including alternate members duly
seated as provided by ordinance; but if the vacancy is not filled within thirty
days from the time that the office becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall
fill the vacancy by appointment within thirty days thereafter.
   2.5.3.   Vacancies on the Board of Selectmen shall be filled in the manner
prescribed by the general statutes.
   2.5.4.   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 2.5, an appointee to a
vacancy in an elective office shall serve the remainder of the term that was
filled.
   2.5.5.   A vacancy occurring among the alternate members of the Planning
Commission or the Zoning Commission shall be filled by a vote of the members of
that Commission including any alternate members then serving for absent or
disqualified commissioners, and the member filling the vacancy shall serve the
remainder of the term that was filled. If the vacancy is not filled within
thirty days from the time that the office becomes vacant, the Board of
Selectmen shall fill the vacancy by appointment within thirty days thereafter.
2.6.   Records
   Copies of all minutes taken by each board and the recorded vote of each
member thereof on all issues shall be filed with the Town Clerk and with the
First Selectman in accordance with state statute. The Town Clerk shall maintain
files of such minutes, also in accordance with state statute and shall be a
permanent record of the Town.
2.7.   Terms of Office of Board of Selectmen
   The Board of Selectmen shall consist of a First Selectman and five
Selectmen. At the next regular municipal election, in November 2025, a First
Selectman and two other Selectmen shall be elected to serve terms of four
years, and three other Selectmen shall be elected to serve terms of two years.
At all subsequent municipal elections, the term of the office of First
Selectman and the term of the office of the other Selectmen shall be four
years. The votes cast, including any valid write-in votes, for an unsuccessful
candidate for First Selectman, shall not be counted as votes for that person as
one of the other Selectmen. For purposes of determining minority representation
only, the First Selectman shall be counted as a member of the Board.
2.8.   Four-Year Term Offices: Organization: Compensation
   2.8.1.   At the regular town election in November of 1965 and quadrennially
thereafter, a Treasurer shall be elected. The Treasurer shall also exercise the
function of the agent of the town deposit fund. The Treasurer shall serve terms
of four years and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
   2.8.2.   Following the transition period of each board, there shall be
elected at each biennial town election for terms of four years, one-half of
each board authorized by Sections
2.9 through
2.12 inclusive, of this charter. Alternate members of the Planning and Zoning
Commissions shall be elected biennially in a ratio of one-third and two-thirds
of the members, respectively.
   2.8.3.   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all boards authorized
in this chapter shall meet within thirty days of taking office and shall make
regulations for the conduct of their meetings and the execution of their
duties. Such regulations and any amendments thereto shall be filed with the
Town Clerk, and shall be public records.
   2.8.4.   The members of the boards named in Sections
2.9 through
2.12 inclusive of this charter, shall serve without compensation except that
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties shall be paid
from an appropriation for that purpose.
   2.8.5.   At the regular election in November of 1990 and quadrennially
thereafter, there shall be elected such number of Registrars of Voters as may
be required by the General Statutes, and such number of Justices of the Peace
as may be required by Ordinance, or in the absence of an applicable Ordinance,
by the General Statutes.
2.9.   Board of Education
   The Board of Education shall consist of ten members serving four year terms.
Such Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
2.10.   Board of Finance
   The Board of Finance shall consist of six members serving four year terms.
Such Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
2.11   Planning Commission
   The Planning Commission shall consist of six members serving four year
terms. Such Commission shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
2.12   Zoning Commission
   The Zoning Commission shall consist of six members serving four year terms.
Such Commission shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
2.13   Board of Assessment Appeals
   The Board of Assessment Appeals shall consist of five members serving four
year terms to be elected in accordance with the transition process described in
section 8.2.7. Such Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
2.14   Additional Elective Boards and Commissions
   The Board of Selectmen may, by ordinance, create additional boards and shall
specify their powers and duties in such ordinance.
2.15   Alternate members of the Planning Commission
   Three alternate members of the Planning Commission shall be elected to serve
four year terms. Such members shall have the powers and duties prescribed by
law.
2.16   Alternate members of the Zoning Commission
   Three alternate members of the Zoning Commission shall be elected to serve
four year terms. Such alternate members shall not be members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals or Planning Commission. Such members shall have the powers and
duties prescribed by law.
CHAPTER 3 - BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Section
   
3.1   Compensation; Other Office-Holding
   
3.2   First Selectman
   
3.3   Board of Selectmen; General Powers, Duties and Procedures
   
3.4   Enactment of Ordinances
3.1.   Compensation: Other Office-Holding
   3.1.1.   There shall be a Board of Selectmen consisting of the First
Selectman and five Selectmen. The compensation of the First Selectman shall be
included in the proposed budget of the Board of Selectmen. Any compensation for
the five Selectmen shall be included in the proposed budget of the Board of
Selectmen. Necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the duties of the
First Selectman and the five Selectmen shall be paid from an appropriation for
that purpose.
   3.1.2.   The First Selectman, during his term of office, shall not hold any
civil office which provides compensation, under the government of the United
States, the State of Connecticut, or any subdivision thereof, except that of
Notary Public.
   3.1.3.   No member of the Board of Selectmen, during his term of office,
shall hold or be appointed to any other office or employment in the government
of the town, except as provided hereinafter, and except as may be prescribed by
law.
3.2.   First Selectman
   3.2.1.   The First Selectman shall be the chief executive and administrative
officer of the town and shall have the powers and duties of First Selectman
prescribed by law. He shall be the official head of the town for all ceremonial
purposes, for military purposes and for the purpose of receiving civil process.
He shall establish and be responsible for the administrative and personnel
policies for town offices and employees, with the approval of the Board of
Selectmen, and shall execute or cause to be executed the town ordinances,
regulations, resolutions and policies voted by the Board of Selectmen. The
First Selectman, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, shall generally
supervise the administration of the affairs of the town, except those matters
which by the general statutes, by charter, or by ordinance, are exclusively
committed to the Board of Education or other boards. He shall preside over
meetings of the Board of Selectmen.
   3.2.2.   Within thirty days after the Board of Selectmen takes office, the
First Selectman shall designate each of the other members of the Board of
Selectmen as an ex-officio member without vote, of one or more of the town
boards. The ex-officio members shall regularly attend the meetings of the
boards to which they have been appointed and shall report to such boards and to
the Board of Selectmen matters relating to the mutual interests of such bodies.
   3.2.3.   The First Selectman shall hire and dismiss employees of the town,
except employees of the Board of Education and except employees whose
employment is otherwise provided by law, and shall give notice of each hiring
or dismissal to the Board of Selectmen at its next meeting. Such hiring or
dismissal may be overruled only by a majority vote of the Board of Selectmen at
its next meeting following such notification.
   3.2.4.   The First Selectman shall have responsibility for the care,
maintenance and operation of all buildings, lands, apparatus and property which
are subject to the control of the Board of Selectmen.
3.3.   Board of Selectmen, General Powers, Duties and Procedures
   3.3.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall have the sole power, subject to the
requirements of the general statutes and of this charter:
      3.3.1.1.   to incur indebtedness in the name of the town and to provide
for the due execution of contracts and evidences of indebtedness issued by the
town;
      3.3.1.2.   to accept or abandon as a public highway any street or highway
situated in the town after approval by the Planning Commission;
      3.3.1.3.   to institute, prosecute, defend or compromise any legal action
or proceeding by or against the town; provided that the assessor is authorized
to settle tax assessment appeals resulting in a payment of $40,000 or less.
      3.3.1.4.   to enter into contracts for any services and to purchase or to
contract to purchase any supplies, materials, equipment and other commodities
required by any town agency, except the Board of Finance and except the Board
of Education. However, the Board of Education may request the Board of
Selectmen to act for it in the making of such contracts and purchases; and the
Board of Selectmen may delegate its powers in this Section 3.3.1.4. to any town
agency or to the First Selectman;
      3.3.1.5.   with Board of Finance approval, to purchase real estate, the
price of which shall not exceed ten thousand dollars and accept gifts of real
estate;
   3.3.2.   The Board of Selectmen shall have such other powers and duties as
are provided for board of selectmen by the general statutes and this charter.
The Board of Selectmen shall be the legislative body of the town except as
otherwise provided by this charter and may exercise any of the powers conferred
on towns by the General Statutes to the extent that such powers are not
otherwise granted or limited by this charter.
   3.3.3.   The Board of Selectmen shall be responsible for coordinating the
activities of all the agencies of the town, and for keeping under review the
present and future needs of the town. It shall require such reports and joint
meetings as may be useful to it in the performance of its duties.
   3.3.4.   At the first meeting after the Board of Selectmen takes office, a
majority of the members shall designate one of their number who shall, until
any vacancy is filled in accordance with the general statutes, upon the absence
or disability of the First Selectman, preside at meetings of the Board of
Selectmen and have such powers and perform such other duties of an absent or
disabled First Selectman as the Board of Selectmen may designate by regulation.
   3.3.5.   In accordance with state statute, the Board of Selectmen shall
retain all minutes and records of the boards which are filed with the Board of
Selectmen.
   3.3.6.   A majority of the Board of Selectmen shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. The Board of Selectmen shall make regulations
for the conduct of its meetings and for the execution of its duties, and shall
hold regular meetings. Such regulations shall be filed with the Town Clerk and
shall be public records.
   3.3.7.   The Board of Selectmen may, by resolution, delegate to the First
Selectman, its obligation to sign the orders of the Board of Selectmen on the
Town Treasurer for payment of the expenses of the town. Such delegation may be
limited in such manner as the Board of Selectmen may deem advisable.
3.4.   Enactment of Ordinances
   3.4.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall have the power to enact ordinances
consistent with the General Statutes and this charter on any matter which the
General Statutes or this charter permit to be regulated by ordinance, and in
general for the preservation of the order, health, welfare and safety of the
town and its inhabitants.
   3.4.2.   At least one public hearing shall be held by the Board of Selectmen
before enacting any proposed ordinance. Notice of a hearing shall be given by
posting the proposed ordinance and the time and place of the hearing on the
Town’s website, not less than ten days before the date of such hearing.
   3.4.3.   Upon enactment of an ordinance, notice thereof shall be given in
accordance with the law of the official title of the ordinance and its
effective date, and by publishing notice of its adoption along with the full
text of the ordinance on the Town’s website and filing with the Town Clerk.
Such ordinance shall not become effective sooner than ten days after notice of
its publication. If, within ten days after such publication, petitions are
filed with the clerk carrying the signatures and street addresses of two
hundred or more electors requesting a town meeting to act upon overrule of such
ordinance, the effective date of such ordinance shall be suspended until such
action to overrule is resolved. If such petitions are so filed and verified by
the Town Clerk, the Board of Selectmen shall call a special town meeting to be
held within twenty days after the date of receipt by the Town Clerk of such
petitions, by publication of notice of the time and place of such special town
meeting and the full text of such ordinance on the Town’s website and in
accordance with state statute, not less than five days before the date of such
special town meeting. Two hundred electors shall constitute a quorum at such
special town meeting, and such ordinance shall be overruled, void and of no
effect if a majority of the electors voting at such special town meeting, or if
a quorum is present and a majority of the electors present does not vote to
overrule such ordinance, such ordinance shall become effective upon publication
of the official title of such ordinance on the Town’s website.
   3.4.4.   Wherever publication is required by this section, such publication
shall be the responsibility of the First Selectman.
CHAPTER 4 - APPOINTIVE BOARDS AND OFFICERS
Section
   
4.1   Appointments
   
4.2   Terms
   
4.3   Minority Representation
   
4.4   General Powers and Procedures; Records, Compensation
   
4.5   Appointive Boards
   
4.6   Appointive Officers
   
4.7   Removal for Cause
4.1.   Appointments
   4.1.1.   The Board of Selectmen, within thirty days of taking office shall
appoint, as required in Sections
4.2 and
4.3 of this charter, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the members of all
boards and all officers authorized by this chapter. During the last sixty days
of their term, the Board of Selectmen may only make appointments to expire on
the first Monday of January next succeeding.
   4.1.2.   All appointive officers shall be sworn before taking office and the
officer administering the oath shall record such fact in the office of the Town
Clerk.
4.2.   Terms
   4.2.1.   The terms of appointment to any board shall be four years,
commencing the first Monday of January in the even-numbered years and shall
expire at staggered biennial intervals.
   4.2.2.   Any appointment to the office of Town Director of Emergency
Management for the Town of East Lyme shall be for a term of four years.
   4.2.3.   The terms of appointment of all other officers shall be four years,
unless otherwise specified, commencing the first Monday of January, 1966 and
quadrennially thereafter.
   4.2.4.   Any vacancy shall be filled within thirty days by the Board of
Selectmen for the unexpired term, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
4.3.   Minority Representation
   Membership on all boards named in section
4.5.2. of this charter shall be determined in accordance with the minority
representation law as set forth in the general statutes.
4.4.   General Powers and Procedures: Records: Compensation
   4.4.1.   All boards and officers shall have the powers and duties prescribed
by law.
   4.4.2.   All boards shall make regulations for the conduct of their meetings
and the execution of their duties. Such regulations and any amendments thereto
shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be public records.
   4.4.3.   Copies of all minutes taken by each board and the recorded vote of
each member thereof on all issues shall be filed with the Town Clerk and with
the First Selectman as required by statute on which such actions are taken. The
Town Clerk shall maintain files of such minutes, which shall be public records.
   4.4.4.   Board members shall serve without compensation except that
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties shall be paid
from an appropriation for that purpose. The compensation of individual officers
shall be determined by the Board of Selectmen, subject to the provisions of
necessary appropriation. The compensation of officers on fee basis shall be
determined by the Board of Selectmen in the absence of provision by the General
Statutes.
4.5.   Appointive Boards and Commissions
   4.5.1.   Effective on the first Monday of January, 1966, there is
constituted a seven member Parks and Recreation Commission.
   4.5.2.   In addition to those board and commissions established by
ordinance, the Board of Selectmen shall appoint members to the boards and
commissions as follows:
 
Zoning Board of Appeals, five members;
Alternate Zoning Board of Appeals, three members;
Water and Sewer Commission, eight members;
Parks and Recreation Commission, seven members;
Building Code Board of Appeals, five members.
Town Building committee, seven members.
 
   4.5.3.   Except as provided by law, no person who is not at the time of
their appointment a resident elector of the Town of East Lyme shall be eligible
for appointment to any town board or commission and any person ceasing to be a
resident elector of the town shall cease to hold such office and the office
shall be deemed vacant.
   4.5.2.   The Board of Selectmen may, by ordinance, create boards and specify
their powers and duties. The Board of Selectmen may, by ordinance, abolish or
consolidate boards and may likewise by ordinance, alter their powers and duties
and change their membership.
4.6.   Appointive Officers
   4.6.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall provide for the appointment of the
Tree Warden, Town Director of Emergency Management and Building Official.
   4.6.2.   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint such other officers as are
required by law and may appoint such other officers as are or may be permitted
by law, subject to the provision of necessary appropriation.
4.7.   Removal for Cause
   4.7.1.   Except as required by law, an appointed officer or a member of an
appointive board may be removed only for cause by the Board of Selectmen.
   4.7.2.   Except as required by law, no such removal for cause shall be
effected unless the officer or member has received a statement in writing of
the reasons why he should be removed. This statement shall be prepared by the
Board of Selectmen. Not less than fifteen days after the delivery of the
statement of reasons, an opportunity for a public hearing before the Board of
Selectmen must be provided at which time the appointed officer or member may
appear with counsel.
CHAPTER 5 - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS, AGENCIES AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
5.1   Terms and Compensation
   
5.2   Town Counsel
   
5.3   Town Meeting Moderator
   
5.4   Other Administrative Officers
5.1.   Terms and Compensation
   All administrative officers, unless otherwise provided in this charter,
shall hold office for terms commencing on the first Monday of January in the
even numbered years. Their compensation shall not be diminished during their
term of office.
5.2.   Town Counsel
   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint town counsel to a term of four years to
furnish such legal services to the town and its agencies as the Board of
Selectmen may authorize.
5.3.   Town Meeting Moderator
   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint for a term of two years a Town Meeting
Moderator and a Deputy Town Meeting Moderator who shall have the powers and
duties prescribed by law. Said appointees shall not be of the same political
party. The Town Moderator and Deputy Town Moderator shall, at the time of their
appointment, be a resident elector of the Town of East Lyme and in the event
they cease to be a town elector, they shall cease to hold the office and the
office shall be deemed vacant.
5.4.   Other Administrative Officers
   The Board of Selectmen shall have the authority to hire such other officers
as are required and may hire such other officers as are, or may be permitted by
law, subject to the provisions of necessary appropriation. Such officers shall
include but not be limited to the Assessor, Town Clerk, Tax Collector and Fire
Marshal. Notwithstanding, the currect elected Town Clerk and Tax Collector
shall continue to serve the balance of their terms ending on December 1, 2025,
unless a vacancy occurs sooner.
CHAPTER 6 - FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
   
6.1   Preparation of the Budget
   
6.2   Laying and Collection of Taxes
   
6.3   Special Appropriation and Transfers of Appropriations
   
6.4   Accounting and Expenditures
6.1.   Preparation of the Budget
   6.1.1.   At such time and in such manner as the Board of Selectmen may
require, but not less than ninety (90) days prior to the annual town meeting,
every agency and department supported wholly or in part by town revenues, or
for which a specific appropriation is or may be made shall present to the Board
of Selectmen an itemized estimate of the expenditures to be made by that agency
or department and all the revenue, other than town appropriations, fees and
contributions to be received by it during the ensuing fiscal year. The Board of
Selectmen may direct that any of such agencies or departments furnish such
additional reports and information as the Board of Selectmen deems advisable
with respect to any of such estimates. The Board of Selectmen shall examine
such estimates and such additional reports and information as shall be
furnished by such agencies and departments. The Board of Selectmen, after
considering the financial condition of the town and the appropriateness and
amount of the proposed expenditures, may eliminate, reduce, or increase any
estimated expenditure of any agency or departments except the Board of
Education.
   6.1.2.   At such time and in such manner as the Board of Finance may by
regulation require, but not less than sixty (60) days prior to the annual town
meeting, the Board of Selectmen shall present to the Board of Finance the
itemized estimates of the expenditures to be made by the Board of Education and
the revenue, other than town appropriations, fees and contributions to be
received by the Board of Education, in the same form as said estimates were
presented to the Board of Selectmen, together with such comments and
recommendations as the Board of Selectmen deems advisable with respect to any
of such estimates. At that time and in such manner as the Board of Finance may
by regulation require, the Board of Selectmen shall also present to the Board
of Finance the itemized estimates of the expenditures to be made by each agency
and department except the Board of Education, as adjusted by the Board of
Selectmen pursuant to Section
6.1.1. of this charter, and the revenue, other than town appropriations, fees
and contributions to be received by each such agency and department.
   6.1.3.   The Board of Finance shall upon request afford each agency and
department an opportunity for a hearing on the proposed budget of such agency
or department, first giving notice to the Board of Selectmen with respect to
the hearing on the proposed budget of each agency and department.
   6.1.4.   The Board of Finance shall hold one or more public hearings
concerning the proposed town budget, one of such hearings to be held not less
than fourteen (14) days before the annual town meeting, at which hearings any
person qualified to vote at the annual town meeting shall have an opportunity
to be heard. The Board of Finance may then revise the proposed town budget as
it deems advisable, and it may, by a vote of two-thirds of its members, restore
any itemized expenditures eliminated or reduced by the Board of Selectmen. The
proposed town budget may include a contingency fund established in accordance
with the general statutes and, an appropriation to any fund for capital and
non-recurring expenditures which may be established in accordance with the
general statutes, and may provide for the payment of any part of the debts of
the town. The proposed town budget shall also include estimates of the revenue
to the town from all sources for the ensuing year, including taxes to be raised
on the last completed grand list. The Board of Finance shall present the budget
to the annual town meeting.
   6.1.5.   The Board of Finance shall post the proposed town budget on the
Town’s website not less than four (4) days before the public hearing. It shall,
before the annual town meeting, publish the proposed town budget in accordance
with law and make available copies of the proposed town budget and any other
reports prescribed by law.
   6.1.6.   The adoption of the annual town budget shall be in accordance with
the provisions of Section
7.3. of this charter.
6.2.   Laying and Collection of Taxes
   6.2.1.   Within thirty (30) days after the Board of Assessment Appeals has
completed its duties and the grand list has been completed, or within thirty
(30) days after adoption of the town budget if a uniform fiscal year has been
adopted by the town in accordance with the General Statutes, the Board of
Finance shall meet and shall lay such tax on the last completed grand list as
is required by the General Statutes.
   6.2.2.   The Tax Collector shall then collect the tax in accordance with the
General Statutes. The due date shall be July 1st.
6.3.   Special Appropriations and Transfers of Appropriations
   6.3.1.   The Board of Selectmen, when requested by any town department and
after approval by the Board of Finance, may make special appropriations from
cash surplus or any approved contingency fund in amounts not to exceed in the
aggregate in any one fiscal year, ten per cent of the amount appropriated for
such department in the current town budget or ten thousand dollars, whichever
shall be less. The Board of Selectmen, when requested by any town department
and after approval by the Board of Finance, may also transfer unexpended
balances from one appropriation to another in accordance with the General
Statutes. The Board of Education may transfer unexpended balances from one
appropriation to another in accordance with the General Statutes.
   6.3.2.   Any request by any town department for a special appropriation
which shall exceed the amount which the Board of Selectmen is empowered by
Section 6.3.1. of this charter to appropriate for that department in any one
fiscal year, shall be acted upon by town meeting after approval by the Board of
Finance, which approval shall include the authority, by a two-thirds vote of
all its members to restore any request eliminated or reduced by the Board of
Selectmen pursuant to Section 6.3.5. of this charter.
   6.3.3.   Special appropriations other than those from cash surplus or any
approved contingency fund may be acted upon only by a special town meeting
after approval by the Board of Finance.
   6.3.4.   Projects which are funded entirely by State, Federal, or private
grants and which do not require an appropriation of town funds need not be
approved by the Board of Finance or at a Town Meeting other than in situations
in which the acceptance of such grant has an adverse impact on future operating
budgets.
   6.3.5.   All requests for special appropriations and transfers of unexpended
funds shall be made in writing to the Board of Selectmen. The Board of
Selectmen shall, within ten (10) days after receipt thereof, forward such
requests together with such comments and recommendations as the Board of
Selectmen deems advisable, to the Board of Finance; provided, however, that
with respect to requests from departments other than the Board of Education,
the Board of Selectmen may, after considering the financial condition of the
town and the appropriateness and amount of the request, eliminate, reduce or
increase the amount of the request after prior notices to the department making
the request and an opportunity for the department to submit such reports and
information as it deems advisable, and for that purpose may delay for a
reasonable time but not more than twenty (20) additional days the forwarding of
the request to the Board of Finance. The Board of Finance shall act on all
requests for special appropriations or transfers of unexpended funds within
thirty (30) days after receipt thereof and shall immediately after acting
advise the department making such request and the Board of Selectmen of its
action. The Board of Selectmen shall act on such requests within ten (10) days
of the earlier of (i) notice of approval of such requests by the Board of
Finance or (ii) expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of receipt by the
Board of Finance; and shall immediately advise the department making such
requests of its action.
   6.3.6.   The provisions of Section
6.3 of this charter shall not be a limitation on the power of the town to issue
bonds or other obligations for appropriations or indebtedness in accordance
with the general statutes and Section
7.5. of this charter. The Board of Finance shall recommend the methods for
financing a capital expenditure.
6.4.   Accounting and Expenditures
   6.4.1.   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on July 1st and end on June
30th. The fiscal year may be adjusted by town meeting action in accordance with
the General Statutes.
   6.4.2.   The system of accounts used by the town agencies and departments
shall be that prescribed by the General Statutes as supplemented by the
regulations of the Board of Finance. All regulations of the Board of Finance
shall be consistent with this charter and the powers and duties of other town
agencies and departments, and shall be complied with by all town agencies and
departments.
   6.4.3.   The Board of Finance shall provide for an annual audit of the books
and accounts of the town as required by the General Statutes.
CHAPTER 7 - TOWN MEETING
Section
   
7.1   Annual and Special Town Meetings
   
7.2   Organization and Procedure
   
7.3   Annual Budget (Automatic Referendum)
   
7.4   Special Appropriations
   
7.5   Appropriations and Borrowing
   
7.6   Overrule of an Ordinance Enactment
   
7.7   Sale or Purchase of Real Estate
7.1.   Annual and Special Town Meetings
   7.1.1.   The annual town meeting, which shall also be the annual budget
meeting, shall be held on the second Monday in May. It may be adjourned from
time to time, including to automatic referendum as set forth in Section 7.3 or
the date may be changed by ordinance. Special meetings shall be called by the
Board of Selectmen in the manner provided by the General Statutes whenever they
deem it necessary, or on application by persons qualified to vote in town
meetings, the number of such persons to be not less than two percent (2%) of
the total electors of the town as determined from the official list of electors
most recently filed with the Town Clerk by the Registrars of Voters.
   7.1.2   The matters which the applicants for a special town meeting desire
to be acted upon shall, if proper subjects for town meeting action, be put in
proper form for the call of the meeting and for a town meeting resolution with
the assistance of Town Counsel, and those matters shall be the first items in
the call of the meeting. The Board of Selectmen may, at its discretion, add
other matters to the call of the meeting.
   7.1.3   Five hundred or more persons or five percent (5%) of the total
number qualified to vote in town meetings, whichever is less, may petition the
town clerk, in writing, at least twenty-four hours prior to any town meeting,
requesting that any item or items on the call of such meeting be submitted to
the persons qualified to vote in such meeting not less than seven nor more than
fourteen days thereafter, on a day to be set by the town meeting or, if the
town meeting does not set a date, by the town selectmen, for a “Yes” or “No”
vote on the voting machines. Except as provided herein, the manner of
conducting such adjourned town meeting shall be as provided by the General
Statutes.
7.2.   Organization and Procedure
   7.2.1.   The Moderator, or in his absence, the Deputy Moderator, shall
preside at town meetings. If both are absent, the meeting shall choose a
moderator. The Town Clerk or Assistant Town Clerk shall serve as clerk. In
their absence the meeting shall choose a clerk.
   7.2.2.   Electors of the town and other persons qualified by the General
Statutes, may vote at town meetings, unless otherwise provided by this charter.
Town meeting action shall be by majority vote of those present and voting
unless otherwise provided by this charter.
7.3.   Annual Budget (Automatic Referendum)
      The annual budget meeting shall be limited to a public presentation of
the town of East Lyme Budget by the Board of Finance, Board of Selectmen and
Board of Education with an opportunity for public participation by comments and
questions. After reasonable discussion, the moderator shall adjourn the meeting
to a referendum on the voting machines. The budget resolution will be submitted
to the persons qualified to vote in a town meeting by referendum by machine
vote which shall take place on the Thursday in May which is ten days after the
annual budget meeting. At least five (5) days prior to such referendum, the
Board of Selectmen shall publish on the Town’s website and in accordance with
state statute, a notice of such referendum, setting forth the date on which,
the hours during which, and the location at which the referendum will be held
and the text of the questions as they will appear on the voting machines.
   The text shall provide for approval/disapproval of the Budget of the Town of
East Lyme.
   1.   Shall the budget for the fiscal year July 1, ______ to June 30,
______as recommended by the Board of Finance be adopted.
         Yes          No
   Should the budget fail to be approved by a majority of those voting thereon,
the Board of Finance shall forthwith revise estimated expenditures, without
altering estimates of revenue except for omissions, clerical errors, or
revisions of revenue to be received from the state, to arrive at revised
spending levels and automatically submit the revised budget to a referendum 14
days following the date the initial budget referendum was defeated. The Board
of Finance shall hold at least one (1) public hearing upon five (5) days legal
notice prior to submitting the revised budget for consideration. This process
shall be repeated at two (2) week succeeding intervals until such time as the
budget is adopted.
   In the event said budget is not adopted by the third Wednesday in June,
business shall be conducted in accordance with Section 7-405 and 12-123 of the
General Statutes, as amended.
7.4.   Special Appropriations
   A special appropriation or a payment into or appropriation from any reserve
fund for capital and non-recurring expenditures, requiring town meeting
approval in accordance with Section
6.3. of this charter, may be decreased by the town meeting, but may not be
increased. A town meeting may make no special appropriation not recommended by
the Board of Finance.
7.5.   Appropriations and Borrowing
   Any request by any town department for a special appropriation which shall
exceed the amount which the Board of Selectmen is empowered by Section
6.3. of this charter to appropriate for that department in any one fiscal year,
and any resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds or notes shall be placed
on the call of a town meeting for action thereon.
7.6.   Overrule of an Ordinance Enactment
   A special town meeting shall be called on application, as provided in
Section
3.4.3. of this charter, to consider the overrule of an ordinance enactment. Two
hundred electors shall constitute a quorum at such special town meeting and
such ordinance shall be overruled, void, and of no effect if a majority of the
electors voting at such special town meeting vote to overrule such ordinance.
7.7.   Sale or Purchase of Real Estate
   The sale of real estate or the purchase of real estate the price of which is
over ten thousand dollars, shall require approval of a town meeting.
CHAPTER 8 - TRANSITION AND MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
8.1   Effective Date
   
8.2   Transition
   
8.3   Financial Interest Prohibited
   
8.4   Amendments to the Charter
   
8.5   Savings Clause
8.1.   Effective Date
   The effective date of this charter shall be December 7, 2023.
8.2.   Transition
   8.2.1.   During the transition period, all elective terms that expire in
October of any year shall, unless otherwise specified in Section 8.2. of this
charter, be extended to the first Monday in December of that year, when their
successors, who have been elected in November of that year, will take office.
   8.2.2.   The terms of the Board of Selectmen elected at the town election in
October 1963 shall be extended until the first Monday in December 1965 and the
members shall have only those powers and duties which they had prior to the
adoption of this charter.
   8.2.3.   The term of the Assessor holding office on the effective date of
this charter shall continue until the first Monday of October 1966.
   8.2.4.   The three terms of the Board of Education that expire in October
1965 shall be extended until the first Monday in December 1967. One additional
member shall be elected in November 1965 for a two year term, to expire on the
first Monday in December 1967. The three terms that expire in October 1967
shall be extended until the first Monday in December 1967. The seven terms that
expire in December 1967 shall be filled in the following manner: in November
1967, five members shall be elected for a four-year term and two members for a
two-year term. The three terms that expire in October 1969 shall be extended to
the first Monday in December 1969. The five terms that expire in December 1969
shall be filled by election in November 1969 for four-year terms.
   8.2.5.   The two terms of the Board of Finance that expire in October 1965
shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1965 and shall be filled in
the election in November 1965 in the following manner: one member shall be
elected for a four-year term and one member for a two-year term. The two terms
that expire in October 1967 shall be extended to the first Monday in December
1967. The three terms that expire in December 1967 shall be filled in the
election in November 1967 by election for four-year terms. The two terms that
expire in October 1969 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1969.
The three terms that expire in December 1969 shall be filled in the election in
November 1969 for four-year terms.
   8.2.6.   The one term of the Board of Assessment Appeals that expires in
October 1965 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1967. The two
terms which expire in October 1967 shall be extended to the first Monday in
December 1967. All terms which expire in December 1967 shall be filled by
election in November 1967 for four-year terms.
   8.2.7.   Upon the increase of the membership of the Board of Assessment
Appeals to five members, the Board of Selectmen shall appoint two additional
members to serve until the first Monday of December 1991. At the election in
November 1991 all five terms shall be filled, the two terms which were filled
by the Board of Selectmen shall be filled for two-year terms and the three
other terms shall be filled for four-year terms. Upon the expiration of each of
the terms thereafter, it shall be filled for a four-year term.
   8.2.8.   The terms of the Zoning Commission and the terms of the Planning
Commission shall each be filled in the following manner: the one term expiring
in October 1965 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1965 and
shall be filled by election in November 1965 for a four-year term. One
additional member shall be elected in November 1965 for a two-year term. The
one term expiring in October 1966 shall be extended to the first Monday in
December 1967. The one term expiring in October 1967 shall be extended to the
first Monday in December 1967. The three terms that expire in December 1967
shall be filled by election in November 1967 for four-year terms. The term
expiring in October 1968 shall be extended to the first Monday in December
1969. The term that expires in October 1969 shall be extended to the first
Monday in December 1969. The three terms that expire in December 1969 shall be
filled by election in November 1969 for four-year terms.
   8.2.9.   The terms of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled by
appointment in the following manner: the term expiring at the annual town
meeting in 1965 shall be extended to January 1966. The term expiring in January
1966 shall be filled by appointment to January 1968. The term expiring at the
annual town meeting in 1966 shall be filled by appointment to January 1968. The
term expiring at the annual town meeting in 1967 shall be extended to January
1968. All terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by appointment for
four years. The five-year term that expires at the annual town meeting in 1969
shall be extended to January 1970. The terms expiring in January 1970 shall be
filled by appointment for four years.
   8.2.10   All terms of the Alternate Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled
by appointment in the following manner: the term expiring at the annual town
meeting in 1965 shall be extended to January 1966. The term expiring in January
1966 shall be filled by appointment for four years. The terms expiring at the
annual town meetings in 1966 and 1967 shall be extended to January 1968. The
terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by appointment for four years.
   8.2.11.   All terms of the Building Code Board of Appeals shall be filled by
appointment in the following manner: the term expiring in 1966 shall be filled
by appointment to January 1968: The term expiring in 1967 shall be extended to
January 1968. All terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by appointment
for four years. The term expiring in 1968 shall be filled by appointment to
January 1970. The term expiring in 1969 shall be extended to January 1970. All
terms expiring in January 1970 shall be filled by appointment for four years.
   8.2.12.   All terms of the Water Commission shall be filled by appointment
in the following manner: the term expiring at the annual town meeting in 1965
shall be extended to January 1966 and shall be filled by appointment for four
years. The terms expiring at the annual town meetings in 1966 and 1967 shall be
extended to January 1968. The terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by
appointment for four years.
   8.2.13.   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall be appointed in the
following manner: in January 1966, three terms shall be filled by appointment
for two years and four terms shall be filled by appointment for four years. The
three terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by appointment for four
years.
8.3.   Financial Interest Prohibited
   No town officer shall derive any financial benefit from any transaction with
the board of which he is a member or with the office which he holds, unless he
disqualifies himself from discussion and decision thereon; if such officer is
not a member of a board, he shall notify in writing the Board of Selectmen of
such benefit.
8.4.   Amendments to the Charter
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner prescribed by the
General Statutes. Future Charter revisions shall include a revision record of
changes. In addition, commencing in 2033 and decennially thereafter, the Board
of Selectmen shall vote to determine whether to appoint a Charter Revision
Commission in accordance with the Connecticut General Statutes.
8.5.   Saving Clause
   If any section of this charter shall be held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidation shall not affect the remainder of this charter
nor the context in which such section so held invalid may appear, except to the
extent that an entire section or part of section may be inseparably connected
in meaning and effect with the section or part of section to which such
invalidation shall directly apply.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Continuation of existing law; ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of East Lyme shall be
designated as the Code of East Lyme and may be so cited.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF SELECTMEN. The governing body of the Town of East Lyme
subject to the limitations of the East Lyme Charter.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      CONN. GEN. STAT. or GENERAL STATUTES. The revision of 1958 of the General
Statutes of the State of Connecticut and all amendments thereto.
      COUNTY. New London County, Connecticut.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, with right of survivorship, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or
joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street, usually lying on either side
thereof, between the curb and the adjacent property line, intended for the use
of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Connecticut.
      STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other public
thoroughfares in the town and means all that part thereof from the property
line of the premises abutting thereon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, mean any person who
occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN. The Town of East Lyme, Connecticut.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (F)   If any definition herein conflicts with a definition in the town’s
planning, zoning, inland wetlands, water and sewer or other regulations, the
definition in the regulation shall control.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.13 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING LAW; ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are the same as
those of the ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code,
shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
   (B)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Selectmen shall desire to amend any existing chapter
or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Ord.
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-340) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-19
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code, or in any other ordinance, rule or regulation
promulgated by any officer or agency of the town under authority vested in him,
her or it by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or declared to be
unlawful, or the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty, including a referral to
community court, is provided therefor either by this code or state law, the
violation of any provision of this code, or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation of the town continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum statutory penalty for ordinance violations, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-148(c)(10)(A)
(Res. passed 4-17-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Resolution authorizing town officials to covenant and agree on behalf
of the town to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission Exchange Act
Rule 15c2-12
   
30.02   Setting date for annual town meeting
   
30.03   Salary for Town Clerk
   
30.04   Assessor
   
30.05   Restriction imposed on salaried town officials and employees
Fees
   
30.20   Establishing fees for use of geographic information system
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING TOWN OFFICIALS TO COVENANT AND AGREE ON BEHALF
OF THE TOWN TO COMPLY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION EXCHANGE ACT
RULE 15c2-12.
   The First Selectman, the Director of Finance, and the Town Treasurer, or any
two of them, are hereby authorized, on behalf of the town, to enter into
agreements or otherwise covenant for the benefit of bondholders to provide
information on an annual or other periodic basis to nationally recognized
municipal securities information repositories or state based information
repositories (the “repositories”) and to provide notices to the repositories of
material events as enumerated in Securities and Exchange Commission Exchange
Act Rule 15c2-12 (“Rule 15c2-12”), as amended, as may be necessary, appropriate
or desirable to effect the sale of the bonds and notices heretofore or
hereafter authorized to be issued by the town. Any agreements or
representations to provide information to repositories made prior hereto are
hereby confirmed, ratified and approved. The town may also provide for
agreements, representations or covenants to be made on behalf of the town to
comply with Rule 15c2-12 in bond authorizations as may hereinafter be enacted.
(Res. passed 6-21-1995)
§ 30.02 SETTING DATE FOR ANNUAL TOWN MEETING.
   The annual town meeting and the annual budget meeting shall be the second
Monday in May each year, commencing with the annual town meeting to be held May
8, 1978 for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1978.
(Ord. passed 12-5-1977)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 38
§ 30.03 SALARY FOR TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall receive a salary in lieu of all fees and other
compensation provided for in the General Statutes, commencing September 1,
1976.
   (B)   The salary of the Town Clerk shall be fixed by the Board of Selectmen,
subject to necessary appropriation.
   (C)   Commencing September 1, 1976, all fees and other compensation which
the General Statutes provide should be paid to the Town Clerk, shall be
collected by the Town Clerk and deposited in the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-1-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 272
§ 30.04 ASSESSOR.
   House Bill No. 102 of the General Assembly of the state, which Bill provides
for the appointment of an Assessor and for the filing of assessment lists in
the town, is accepted.
(Res. passed 6-7-1951)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 295
§ 30.05 RESTRICTION IMPOSED ON SALARIED TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No salaried town official or employee shall receive from the town
compensation for the use of equipment owned by said official or employee in
town work or sale of material.
(Ord. passed 9-26-1932)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 5, page 38
FEES
§ 30.20 ESTABLISHING FEES FOR USE OF GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 1-212 and 7-
148s, the following schedule of fees is established for the town’s geographic
information system data:
Digital data in CD format including the following layers:
   Parcels w/CAMA data
   Zoning                                                  $150
   Street centerlines-with address points
   5 ft. contours (developed from 2004 DEP LIDAR)
Paper maps (color)                 8-1/2 x 11 11 x 17 24 x 36 36 x 72
   Published map                $2         $5      $15     $45
   Custom map - $10/layer plus  $2         $5      $15     $45
Prints from Public Access Terminal 8-1/2 x 11 11 x 17 24 x 36 36 x 72
   Black and white              $0.50      $1      N/A     N/A
   Color                        $2         $5      N/A     N/A
Certification of above documents   $1/first page, $0.50/additional pages*
Shipping and handling (if applicable)                         $10
* Fee of $0.50 per additional page beyond first page applies to multi-page
documents. Each separate map shall constitute a new document subject to the
$1 per first page fee for certification.
 
   (B)   Fees shall be paid at the time a request for data is submitted.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 787
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Commission for the Conservation of Natural Resources
   
31.02   Niantic River Gateway Commission
   
31.03   Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission
   
31.04   Town Building Committee
   
31.05   Board of Education; election of members
   
31.06   Civil Preparedness Agency
   
31.07   Commission on Aging
   
31.08   Brookside Farm Museum Commission
   
31.09   Board of Finance
   
31.10   Youth, Family and Human Services Commission
   
31.11   Fair Rent Commission
School Building Committees
   
31.25   School Building Committee (East Lyme Elementary Schools)
   
31.26   School Building Committee (East Lyme Middle School)
   31.27   School Building Committee (Lillie B. Haynes Elementary School and
East Lyme High School)
Zoning and Planning Commissions
   
31.40   Designating Zoning Commission as Aquifer Protection Agency
   
31.41   Providing for election of alternate members of Zoning Commission
   
31.42   Providing for election of alternate members of Planning Commission
Other Boards
   
31.55   Pension Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COMMISSION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2008, there is constituted a five member Commission
for the Conservation of Natural Resources, with all the authority, powers and
responsibilities of local conservation commissions as set forth in Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-131a, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed in the following
manner: three terms shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 2010, at which time they shall be filled by appointment for four
years. Two terms shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 2012, at which time they will be filled by appointment for four years.
   (C)   There shall be two alternate members of the Commission. The term of
one alternate member shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 2010, at which time it shall be filled by appointment for four years.
The term of the other alternate member shall be filled by appointment until the
first Monday of January, 2012, at which time it will be filled by appointment
for four years. Such alternate members shall, when seated, have all the powers
and duties of a member of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 787A
§ 31.02 NIANTIC RIVER GATEWAY COMMISSION.
   (A)   As authorized by Public Act 87-512 of the Connecticut General
Assembly, and subject to a final determination by the Board of Selectmen,
pursuant to § 4(b) of said Act as to whether the town shall be governed by the
provisions of said Act, the town hereby acts to establish the Niantic River
Gateway Commission.
   (B)   The Niantic River Gateway Commission shall have the authority and
responsibility provided for said Commission in said Act.
   (C)   There shall be six members of said Commission, three of whom shall be
electors of the town who shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen. The East
Lyme members shall be appointed within 60 days from the date that the Town
First Selectman receives notice from the Waterford First Selectman that the
Town of Waterford has adopted an ordinance establishing the Commission. The
East Lyme members shall be appointed for terms to expire on the first Monday in
January of the next even-numbered year following their appointment. Upon the
expiration of said terms, one member shall be appointed for a term of two
years, and two members shall be appointed for terms of four years. Thereafter,
each of said terms shall be filled upon its expiration for four years. Any
vacancy that may from time to time occur among East Lyme members shall be
filled by the Board of Selectmen.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to vote not to be governed by the
provisions of said Act in accordance with § 7 of this Act.
(Ord. passed 10-21-1987; Ord. passed 1-22-2001)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 123
   TM Volume 22, page 60
§ 31.03 ROUTE 11 GREENWAY AUTHORITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148, the town hereby establishes
a Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission, which shall be deemed to be
established at such time as the last of the four towns of East Lyme, Montville,
Salem and Waterford has adopted an ordinance consistent with Public Act 00-148,
§ 40, subsections (a), (b) and (c).
   (B)   The membership of said commission shall consist of the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection or said Commissioner’s designee, the Commissioner of
Transportation, or said commissioner’s designee, a member and alternate member
from each of the towns of East Lyme, Montville, Salem and Waterford, appointed
by the First Selectman of said towns, and a member and alternate member of the
Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments appointed by said agency.
   (C)   Each member and alternate member of the Commission shall serve for a
term of two years and until such member’s successor is appointed and has
qualified. Such appointments shall take effect when the last of the four towns
has adopted an enabling ordinance. An alternate member shall be empowered to
vote on said Commission in the absence of the member for whom such person is an
alternate. The initial terms of members shall commence when the last of the
four towns adopting such ordinance has appointed a member and an alternate
member. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the balance of the unexpired term. No appointed member
shall receive any compensation for service on said commission. Said Commission
shall elect from its members a Chairperson and such other officers as it deems
necessary and shall establish its own rules and procedure.
   (D)   The Commission shall be an autonomous body within the Department of
Transportation for administrative purposes only. The Commission may employ
experts and such other assistants as it judges necessary and may accept funds
from any source. Notwithstanding any other provision of the General Statutes,
any funds appropriated to the Commission received by the Commission from any
other source shall be held in the custody of the Commission and expended by the
Commission for the purposes set forth in § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148.
   (E)   The Commissioner of Environmental Protection and the Commissioner of
Transportation, not later than 60 days after the effective date of the enabling
ordinance adopted by the last of the four towns to adopt such an ordinance,
shall call a meeting of the Commission which shall, within 90 days thereafter:
      (1)   Hold public hearings for the purpose of developing standards for:
         (a)   Defining the boundaries of the Route 11 Greenway;
         (b)   Planning the design, the construction, maintenance and
management of the Route 11 Greenway trail system and intermodal transportation
access system;
         (c)   Identifying and prioritizing land that should be added to the
Route 11 Greenway;
         (d)   Recommending land use within the Route 11 Greenway; and
         (e)   Acquiring land and securing conservation easements for the Route
11 Greenway, except that nothing in the Act shall be construed to prohibit the
acquisition of land within the Route 11 Greenway by a municipality.
      (2)   Establish bylaws by which the Commission shall:
         (a)   Conduct its meetings, including a provision specifying that no
action by the Commission shall be effective except by the concurring votes of
at least four members;
         (b)   Protect and preserve lands under its custody;
         (c)   Supervise staff;
         (d)   Maintain its records; and
         (e)   Report to the General Assembly, as required by § 40 of Public
Act No. 00-148.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148
or the General Statutes, the Commission may:
      (1)   Acquire or convey by purchase, gift, lease, devise, exchange or
otherwise, any land or interest therein including, but not limited to,
conservation easements, located wholly or partly in the conservation zone,
provided such acquisition does not utilize funds furnished by the state;
      (2)   Transfer, with the approval of the Commissioner, any land or
interest therein to the state with or without consideration, provided any funds
received therefore shall not be deemed funds furnished by the state for
purposes of this section; and
      (3)   Contribute or transfer funds to, and enter into agreements with,
land trusts or other conservation organizations, to carry out the purposes of §
40 of Public Act No. 00-148.
   (G)   The Commission shall report to the General Assembly, on or before
February 15 annually, on its activities of the preceding year and on its
finances.
   (H)   The existence of the Commission shall terminate at such time as all of
its member towns have withdrawn or is abolished by the General Assembly.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2000)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 54
§ 31.04 TOWN BUILDING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is constituted a seven member Town Building Committee which, as
instructed and to the extent authorized by the Board of Selectmen, is empowered
to obtain plans and cost estimates for new town buildings and additions to
existing town buildings, other than school buildings, including such
furnishings and equipment as may be required, and to enter into such contracts
and expend such funds as may be hereafter authorized and appropriated for such
purposes.
      (1)   As instructed and to the extent authorized by the Board of
Education, the committee is empowered to obtain plans and cost estimates for
new school facilities, and additions, alterations and major repairs to existing
school facilities, including such furnishings and equipment as may be required,
and to enter into such contracts and expend such funds as may be authorized and
appropriated for such purposes. The Superintendent of Schools shall be an ex
officio member without vote of the Committee when it is acting under the
instructions and with the authorization of the Board of Education.
      (2)   Two residents of the Town of Salem, appointed by the Salem Board of
Selectmen, shall be ex officio members without vote of the Committee when it is
acting under the instructions and with the authorization of the Board of
Education on the East Lyme High School expansion and improvement project.
   (B)   Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen
in the following manner.
      (1)   All seven terms shall be filled by appointment within 30 days from
the effective date hereof, four terms to expire on the first Monday of January,
1970 and three terms to expire on the first Monday of January, 1972.
      (2)   All said terms shall be filled upon their expiration for four
years.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1968; Ord. passed 7-1-1977; Ord. passed 4-2-1997)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 40, 59; TM Volume 12, page 341, Amended; TM Volume 21,
page 376, Amended
§ 31.05 BOARD OF EDUCATION; ELECTION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-204b are adopted.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-167a regarding
minority representation, whether the number of members to be elected to the
Board of Education at any election is odd or even, any elector may vote for all
of that number and the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be
elected.
   (C)   Each political party shall have the right to nominate as many persons
as there are vacancies on the Board of Education, and those names shall be
placed upon the ballot.
(Ord. effective 8-1-1995)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 23
§ 31.06 CIVIL PREPAREDNESS AGENCY.
   (A)   There is constituted a Civil Emergency Management Agency which shall
perform such civil preparedness functions in the town as the State Director of
Emergency Management prescribed, and shall perform such functions outside the
town as are prescribed by the State Emergency Management Plan and Program and
by the terms of any mutual aid agreements to which the town is a party.
   (B)   Each Selectman shall be a member of the Agency. The Board of Selectmen
may appoint additional members in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4 of the Charter.
   (C)   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a Town Director of Emergency
Management for a term to expire on the first Monday of January, 1980. Said term
shall be filled upon expiration for four years.
   (D)   The Director shall be responsible for the organization, administration
and operation of the Agency, subject to the direction and control of the State
Director, and subject to the provisions of division (E) below. He or she may,
with the approval of the State Director, collaborate with other public and
private agencies within the state and develop or cause to be developed mutual
aid agreements for civil preparedness aid and assistance in case of disaster
too great to be dealt with unassisted. He or she may, with the approval of the
State Director, enter into such mutual aid agreements with civil preparedness
agencies or organizations in other states. Such agreements shall be consistent
with the State Emergency Preparedness Plan and Program and, in time of
emergency, the Agency shall render assistance in accordance with the provisions
of such agreements to which it is a party unless otherwise ordered by the State
Director.
   (E)   In the event of a serious disaster or a sudden emergency, the Agency
shall be under the direction and supervision of the First Selectman, and the
Director shall act as his or her advisor and Chief of Staff. In that event, the
First Selectman may declare a state of emergency for the town if, in his or her
opinion, such a declaration is necessary, whereupon he or she shall immediately
call an emergency meeting of the Board of Selectmen which shall confirm or
revoke the declaration. In such an event, the First Selectman is empowered to
apply to the state and the federal government for disaster assistance.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1979; Ord. passed 12-19-1988)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 249; TM Volume 16, page 298, Amended
§ 31.07 COMMISSION ON AGING.
   (A)   There is constituted a seven member Commission on Aging, which shall
cooperate with the Connecticut Commission on Aging, the Area Agency on Aging
and other agencies as appropriate in assisting the elderly persons of the town
in those matters which distinctively relate to elderly persons.
   (B)   The Commission on Aging shall:
      (1)   Review and analyze the needs and conditions of the elderly persons
of the town in relation to housing, nutrition, employment, health, recreation,
social services, transportation and other matters and problems with the
jurisdiction of the Commission;
      (2)   Plan, coordinate, develop and implement programs to meet the needs
and to improve the conditions of the elderly persons of the town, upon its own
initiative or on the recommendations of the Senior Citizen Administration; and
      (3)   Through the Senior Citizen Administrator and others, as necessary,
provide coordination of such plans and programs among all related services.
   (C)   The terms of the members shall be for four years. Three terms shall
expire on the first Monday of January, 1986 and four terms shall expire on the
first Monday of January, 1988.
   (D)   The First Selectman shall appoint a Senior Citizen Administrator who
shall be the Municipal Agent on Aging for the town.
      (1)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall serve for a term of two
years, to expire on the first Monday of January in even-numbered years.
      (2)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall be under the administrative
control of the First Selectman.
   (E)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall:
      (1)   Serve as an ex officio member of the Commission on Aging;
      (2)   Disseminate information to the elderly and assist them in learning
about the community resources available to them, and publicize such resources
and benefits;
      (3)   Assist the elderly in applying for federal and other grants and
benefits available to the elderly;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the Commission on Aging concerning needs
and conditions of the elderly in relation to housing, nutrition, employment,
health, recreation, social services, transportation and other matters of
concern to the elderly;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the Commission on Aging for plans and
implementation of programs to meet the needs and to improve the conditions of
the elderly;
      (6)   Coordinate and supervise the implementation of Commission-approved
plans and programs, including the supervision of the senior citizen bus
drivers, office personnel, other related personnel who are under the
jurisdiction of the Administrator and volunteers contributing time and
resources to such plans and programs;
      (7)   Administer grant and benefit programs;
      (8)   Work with the Commission to prepare the Commission budget;
      (9)   Submit written reports as required, and cooperate with the
Chairperson of the Commission in writing the Annual Report to be submitted to
the Board of Selectmen, summarizing the year’s plans, activities and
recommendations for the future;
      (10)   Develop and coordinate media releases;
      (11)   Act as liaison between the town and the Senior Citizen’s Club;
      (12)   Develop and implement programs with other agencies related to
senior citizens;
      (13)   Remain accessible to the town’s senior citizens; and
      (14)   Attend meeting and training sessions related to the duties herein
described.
(Ord. passed 5-15-1985)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 167
§ 31.08 BROOKSIDE FARM MUSEUM COMMISSION.
   (A)   The responsibility for the management, control, restoration and repair
of the Smith-Harris House and the land and improvements appurtenant thereto, is
hereby vested in the Brookside Farm Museum Commission.
   (B)   The Brookside Farm Museum Commission is authorized to enter into
agreements for the use of the property, and to set reasonable fees therefor.
   (C)   There shall be seven members of the Commission who shall be appointed
by the Board of Selectmen in the following manner.
      (1)   All seven terms shall be filled by appointment within 30 days from
the effective date of this section, four terms to expire on the first Monday of
January, 1980 and three terms to expire on the first Monday of January, 1982.
      (2)   Each of said terms shall be filled upon its expiration for four
years.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1978; Ord. passed 6-8-2018)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 101
§ 31.09 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   The town, pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 28, Revised
of 1930, as amended, establish a Board of Finance in said town with all the
rights and powers conferred, and duties and obligations imposed by the General
Statutes upon Boards of Finance.
(Res. passed 3-3-1947)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 94
§ 31.10 YOUTH, FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. Ch. 164, § 10-19m, as may be
amended from time to time, there is hereby established a Youth, Family and
Human Services Commission for the Town of East Lyme.
   (B)   Purpose. The Commission shall act as an advisory board to the Board of
Selectmen and shall be responsible for providing outreach, community education,
and services to meet the needs of youth in the Town of East Lyme, Salem
students enrolled at East Lyme High School, and families and individuals in the
Town of East Lyme from youth to senior citizens.
   (C)   Duties. The Commission will be responsible for receiving and reviewing
youth and social services program reports to identify issues and trends and
make recommendations. The Commission shall perform community outreach, seek
potential partnerships for the Youth, Family and Human Services Program and
provide services and programs as needed. The Commission shall distribute Youth,
Family and Human Services Program materials to the community and work to
identify youth, families, senior citizens, and individuals in need.
   (D)   Commission membership. The Commission shall be composed of seven
members appointed by the Board of Selectmen, who shall serve for a four-year
term, until the first Monday in January 2028. Thereafter, the Commission shall
be composed of seven members appointed by the Board of Selectmen, who shall
serve for a four-year term. Said appointees shall all be Town of East Lyme
resident electors and include at least one representative from the school
system, Police Department, a private youth-serving agency, a youth under the
age of 21 at the time of appointment, a senior citizen, and a community-at-
large member. In addition, a non-voting member of the Town of Salem and the
Director of the Youth, Family and Human Services Commission shall act as ex
officio members. At least one-third of the total membership shall be
individuals who are interested in youth services and who receive less than 50%
of their income by delivering services to youth.
   (E)   Terms. The terms of the members of the Commission shall be four years.
In 2024, three members shall be appointed for terms that expire on the first
Monday of January, 2028 and four members shall be appointed for terms that
expire on the first Monday of January, 2030. A member appointed in 2025 shall
have a term expiring on the first Monday of January 2030.
(Ord. passed 11-15-23; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)
§ 31.11 FAIR RENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation of a Fair Rent Commission.
      (1)   Pursuant to and in conformity with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-148b
through 7-l48f, 47a-20 and 47a-23c, there is hereby created a Fair Rent
Commission (“Commission”) for the purpose of controlling and eliminating
excessive rental charges for housing accommodations within the town of East
Lyme, and to carry out the purposes, duties, responsibilities and all
provisions of the above described sections and any other sections of the
statutes, as they may be amended from time to time, pertaining to fair rent
commissions.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission shall consist of five members and three
alternates, all of whom shall be resident electors of the Town of East Lyme. Of
the five regular members, at least one shall be a residential landlord and one
shall be a residential tenant. Among the alternate members, at least one shall
be a residential landlord and one shall be a residential tenant.
         (b)   The members and alternates shall be appointed by the East Lyme
Board of Selectman. A quorum shall consist of three members or seated
alternates. Members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
      (3)   Members of the Commission shall be appointed for staggered terms of
three for four years, two for two years and thereafter all appointments shall
be for four years. Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled, within a
reasonable time, in the manner of original appointment for the unexpired
portion of the term. Any member of the Commission may be reappointed in the
manner of the original appointment. In the appointment of Commission members,
minority representation rules shall be followed.
   (B)   Powers of the Commission. The Commission's powers shall include the
power to:
      (1)   Receive complaints, inquiries, and other communications concerning
alleged excessive rental charges and alleged violations, including retaliation,
of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-148b to 7-148f, inclusive, 47a-20, 21-80a, and 47a-23c
in housing accommodations, except those accommodations rented on a seasonal
basis, within its jurisdiction, which jurisdiction shall include mobile
manufactured homes and mobile manufactured home park lots. “Seasonal basis”
means housing accommodations rented for a period or periods aggregating not
more than 120 days in any one calendar year. “Rental charge” includes any fee
or charge in addition to rent that is imposed or sought to be imposed upon a
tenant by a landlord, and includes any charge that is already in effect;
      (2)   Make such studies and investigations regarding rental housing
within the town as are appropriate to carry out the duties and responsibilities
delegated hereunder, and subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set
forth herein;
      (3)   Conduct hearings on complaints or requests for investigation
submitted to it by any landlord or tenant, subject to the terms, limitations
and conditions as set forth herein;
      (4)   Compel the attendance of persons at hearings, issue subpoenas and
administer oaths, issue orders and continue, review, amend, terminate or
suspend any of its orders and decisions;
      (5)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether or not the
rent for any housing accommodation is so excessive as to be harsh and
unconscionable;
      (6)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether the housing
accommodation in question fails to comply with any municipal ordinance or state
statute or regulation relating to health and safety;
      (7)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether a landlord
has engaged in retaliation in violation of division (F) below and make such
orders as are authorized herein;
      (8)   Order a reduction of any excessive rent to an amount which is fair
and equitable, and make such other orders as are authorized herein;
      (9)   Order the suspension or reduction of further payment of rent by the
tenant until such time as the landlord makes the necessary changes, repairs or
installations so as to bring such housing accommodation into compliance with
any municipal ordinance or state statute or regulation relating to health and
safety;
      (10)   Establish an escrow account with a local bank or financial
institution into which it shall deposit all rent charges or other funds paid to
it pursuant to division (E) herein; and
      (11)   Carry out all other provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-148b to 7-
148f, inclusive, 47a-20, 21-80a and 47a-23c as now existing and as hereinafter
amended, as they apply to fair rent commissions.
   (C)   Determination of excessive rent.
      (1)   (a)   In determining whether a rental charge or a proposed increase
in a rental charge is so excessive, with due regard to all the circumstances,
as to be harsh and unconscionable, the Commission shall consider such of the
following circumstances as are applicable to the type of accommodation:
            1.   The rents charged for the same number of rooms in other
housing accommodations in the same and in other areas of the municipality;
            2.   The sanitary conditions existing in the housing accommodations
in question;
            3.   The number of bathtubs or showers, flush waste closets,
kitchen sinks and lavatory basins available to the occupants thereof;
            4.   Services, furniture, furnishings and equipment supplied
therein;
            5.   The size and number of bedrooms contained therein;
            6.   Repairs necessary to make such accommodations reasonably
livable for the occupants accommodated therein;
            7.   The amount of taxes and reasonable overhead expenses thereof;
            8.   Whether the accommodations are in compliance with the
ordinances of the town and the General Statutes of the State of Connecticut
relating to health and safety;
            9.   The income of the petitioner and the availability of
accommodations;
            10.   The availability of utilities;
            11.   Damages done to the premises by the tenant, caused by other
than ordinary wear and tear;
            12.   The amount and frequency of increases in rental charges; and
            13.   Whether, and the extent to which, the income from an increase
in rental charges has been or will be reinvested in improvements to the
accommodations.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from
considering other relevant circumstances.
      (2)   The rent of a tenant protected by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 47a-23c who
files a complaint with the Commission pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 47a-23c(c)
(2) may be increased only to the extent that such increase is fair and
equitable, based on the criteria set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148c.
   (D)   Procedures on hearing on complaints.
      (1)   Upon the filing of a complaint, the Commission shall promptly
notify all parties in writing of the receipt of the complaint. Such notice
shall also inform the parties that the landlord is prohibited from retaliating
against the tenant due to the filing of the complaint. It shall also inform the
parties that, until a decision on the complaint is made by the Commission, the
tenant's liability shall be for the amount of the last rent prior to the
increase complained of or, if there is no such increase, the last agreed-upon
rent, and that an eviction based upon non-payment of rent cannot be initiated
against a tenant who continues to pay the last agreed-upon rent during the
pendency of the Fair Rent Commission proceeding.
      (2)   If a complaint alleges housing conditions that violate a housing,
health, building or other code or statute, the Commission shall notify the
appropriate municipal office or agency, which may then concurrently exercise
its own powers. In addition, the Commission may request that the appropriate
municipal official or agency promptly investigate and provide a report to the
Commission.
      (3)   If two or more complaints are filed against the same landlord by
tenants occupying different rental units in the same building, complex, or
mobile home park that appear to raise the same or similar issues, the
Commission may consolidate such claims for hearing.
      (4)   The Commission or municipal staff may, to the extent practicable,
encourage the parties to the complaint to reach a mutually satisfactory
resolution through informal conciliation. Municipal staff may serve as informal
conciliators. Any agreement to resolve the complaint shall be in writing and
signed by the parties.
      (5)   A hearing on the complaint shall be scheduled no later than 30 days
after the filing of the complaint, unless impracticable. Written notice of the
date, time, and place of the hearing shall be given to the parties to the
complaint at least ten days prior to the hearing by first class and certified
mail and, if practicable, by electronic mail.
      (6)   All parties to a hearing shall have the right to be represented, to
cross-examine witnesses, to examine documents introduced into evidence, and to
call witnesses and introduce evidence. The testimony taken at a hearing shall
be made under oath. Hearings shall be recorded.
      (7)   In the event that there is insufficient time to complete a hearing
or for other cause, the Commission shall have the power to adjourn the hearing
to another time and date.
      (8)   No sale, assignment, transfer of the housing accommodation in
question or attempt to evict the tenant shall be cause for discontinuing any
pending proceeding nor shall it affect the rights, duties and obligations of
the Commission or the parties.
   (E)   Rent reduction order and repairs.
      (1)   The Commission shall render its decision at the same meeting at
which the hearing on the complaint is completed or within 30 days following
such date, unless impracticable, in which case at a date mutually consented to
by the parties. In accordance with the State Freedom of Information Act, both
the hearing itself and the deliberation by the Commission shall be open to
observation by the public. Until a decision on the complaint is made by the
Commission, the tenant's liability shall be for the amount of the last rent
prior to the increase complained of or, if there is no such increase, the last
agreed-upon rent.
      (2)   If the Commission determines after a hearing that the rental charge
or proposed increase in the rental charge for any housing accommodation is so
excessive, based on the standards and criteria set forth in division (C), as to
be harsh and unconscionable, it may order that the rent be limited to such an
amount as it determines to be fair and equitable, effective the month in which
the tenant filed the complaint. A Commission's orders may include, but are not
limited to, a reduction in a rental charge or proposed rent increase; a delay
in an increased rental charge until specified conditions, such as compliance
with municipal code enforcement orders, have been satisfied; or a phase-in of
an increase in a rental charge, not to exceed a fair and equitable rent, in
stages over a period of time. Commission orders shall be effective for at least
one year from the date of issuance, unless the Commission otherwise orders.
      (3)   If the Commission determines after a hearing that a housing
accommodation fails to comply with any municipal ordinance or state statute or
regulation relating to health and safety, the Commission may order the
suspension or reduction of further payment of rent by the tenant until such
time as the landlord makes the necessary changes, repairs or installations so
as to bring the housing accommodation into compliance with such laws, statutes,
or regulations. If the Commission's order constitutes a complete suspension of
all rent, the rent during such period shall be paid to the Commission to be
held in escrow subject to such ordinances or provisions as may be adopted by
the town, city or borough. Upon the landlord's full compliance with such
ordinance, statute or regulation for which payments were made into such escrow,
the Commission shall determine after hearing such distribution of the escrowed
funds as it deems appropriate.
   (F)   Retaliation.
      (1)   No landlord shall engage in retaliatory actions. Retaliatory
actions by a landlord include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Engaging in any action prohibited by Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 47a-20
or 21-80a within six months after any event listed in such statutes, including
but not limited to within six months after the tenant has filed a complaint
with the Commission.
         (b)   Refusing to renew the lease or other rental agreement of any
tenant; bringing or maintaining an action or proceeding against the tenant to
recover possession of the dwelling unit; demanding an increase in rent from the
tenant; decreasing the services to which the tenant has previously been
entitled; or verbally, physically or sexually harassing a tenant because a
tenant has filed a complaint with the Commission.
         (c)   Engaging in any other action determined by the Commission, after
a hearing, to constitute landlord retaliation as set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat.
7-148d(b).
      (2)   In the initial notice scheduling a hearing or conciliation on a
complaint, and in its notice of decision, the Commission shall include notice,
in plain language, to landlords and tenants that retaliatory actions against
tenants are prohibited.
      (3)   Any tenant who claims that the action of his or her landlord
constitutes retaliatory action may file a notice of such claim with the
Commission. If the Commission determines, after a hearing, which hearing shall
be expedited, that a landlord has retaliated in any manner against a tenant
because the tenant has complained to the Commission, the Commission may order
the landlord to cease and desist from such conduct and order the landlord to
withdraw or remediate such conduct as has already occurred.
   (G)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any order or decision of the
Commission may appeal to the Superior Court within 30 days of the issuance of
the written notice of the decision to the parties. Such notice shall include
notice of the right to appeal, the court to which an appeal may be taken, and
the time in which an appeal must be filed. Unless otherwise directed by the
Commission or the court, the filing of an appeal shall not stay any order
issued by the Commission.
   (H)   Failure to comply with Commission orders.
      (1)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148f, any person who violates any
order of rent reduction or rent suspension by demanding, accepting or receiving
an amount in excess thereof while such order remains in effect, and no appeal
pursuant to § 7-148e is pending, or who violates any other provision of this
section or Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 47a-20 or 21-80a or who refuses to obey any
subpoena, order or decision of the Commission pursuant thereto shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense. If such offense
continues for more than five days, it shall constitute a new offense for each
day it continues to exist thereafter. No action shall be taken on any such
violation by the prosecuting authorities of the town except upon written
complaint of the Chairperson of the Commission after at least a two-thirds vote
of approval by the members of the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission, in its own name or through the municipality, may
bring a civil action to any court of competent jurisdiction or take any other
action in such a court to enforce any order of the Commission made pursuant to
this section, or to enjoin a violation or threatened violation of any order of
the Commission.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2024)
SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEES
§ 31.25 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (EAST LYME ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS).
   (A)   There is constituted a nine-member School Building Committee for
alterations and upgrades to the Niantic Center School, Lillie B. Haynes School
and Flanders Elementary School. Said School Building Committee shall consist of
the seven-member Town Building Committee and two members of the Board of
Education appointed to the School Building Committee by the Board of Selectmen.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Schools and the Elementary School Principals for
each of the schools shall be ex officio members of the Committee without vote,
and shall not be counted in determining a quorum.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2017)
§ 31.26 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (EAST LYME MIDDLE SCHOOL).
   (A)   The Town Board of Education shall act as the town’s School Building
Committee, during the design phase of the project to construct a new middle
school and convert the existing middle school to an elementary school, and the
Town Building Committee shall act as the town’s School Building Committee
during the construction phase of the project.
   (B)   The Superintendent of schools shall be an ex officio member without
vote of the committee during the design phase and the construction phase of the
project.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 752; TM Volume 21, page 752
§ 31.27 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (LILLIE B. HAYNES ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND EAST
LYME HIGH SCHOOL).
   (A)   There is constituted a nine-member School Building Committee for the
roof replacement project at Lillie B. Haynes Elementary School and the roof
replacement project at East Lyme High School Aquatics Center. Said School
Building Committee shall consist of the seven-member Town Building Committee
and two members of the Board of Education appointed to the School Building
Committee by the Board of Selectmen.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Schools and the Director of Facilities for East
Lyme Public Schools shall be ex officio members of the Committee without vote
and shall not be counted in determining quorum.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2024)
ZONING AND PLANNING COMMISSIONS
§ 31.40 DESIGNATING ZONING COMMISSION AS AQUIFER PROTECTION AGENCY.
   The Town Zoning Commission is hereby designated as the Town Aquifer
Protection Agency, with all the authority, powers and responsibilities of local
aquifer protection agencies set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-354a et seq.,
as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 556
§ 31.41 PROVIDING FOR ELECTION OF ALTERNATE MEMBERS OF ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 84-154, there are constituted three alternate
members of the Zoning Commission, with the powers and duties set forth in said
Act. Such alternate members shall be electors and shall not be members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission.
   (B)   At the town election in November of 1985, one alternate member of the
Zoning Commission shall be elected for a term of two years, and two shall be
elected for a term of four years. At the town election in November of 1987, the
term of the alternate member which expires in December of 1987 shall be filled
by election for a term of four years. Alternate members of the Zoning
Commission shall be elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Charter. A
vacancy occurring among alternate members shall be filled until the next
special election or regular town election by vote of the members of the Zoning
Commission including any alternate members then serving for absent or
disqualified Commissioners; but if the vacancy is not filled within 30 days
from the time that the office becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill
the vacancy within 30 days thereafter.
   (C)   Within 30 days from the effective date of this section, the Board of
Selectmen shall appoint alternate members of the Zoning Commission to serve
until the persons elected in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall have qualified.
(Ord. passed 4-30-1985; Ord. passed 5-25-1986; Ord. passed 12-2-2004)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 170; TM Volume 15, page 341, amended; TM Volume 22, page
461, amended
§ 31.42 PROVIDING FOR ELECTION OF ALTERNATE MEMBERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   At the town election in November of 1975, one alternate member of the
Planning Commission shall be elected for a term of two years, two alternate
members of the Planning Commission shall be elected for terms of four years.
   (B)   At the town election in November of 1977, the term of the alternate
members of the Planning Commission that expires in December, 1977 shall be
filled by election for a term of four years.
   (C)   Alternate members of the Planning Commission shall be elected in
accordance with Chapter 2 of the Charter. A vacancy occurring among alternate
members shall be filled until the next special election or regular town
election by vote of the members of the Planning Commission including any
alternate members then serving for absent or disqualified Commissioners; but if
the vacancy is not filled within 30 days from the time that the office becomes
vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill the vacancy by appointment within 30
days thereafter.
   (D)   Within 30 days from the effective date of this section, the Board of
Selectmen shall appoint alternate members of the Planning Commission to serve
until the persons elected in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall have qualified.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1975; Ord. passed 5-25-1986; Ord. passed 12-4-2004)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 75; TM Volume 15, Page 341; TM Volume 22, page 461,
Amended
OTHER BOARDS
§ 31.55 PENSION BOARD.
   (A)   Established. There is established a five-member Pension Board for the
purpose of administration, management, supervision and control of the town
pension plan (the "plan"), as more particularly set forth hereinafter.
   (B)   Composition and terms.
      (1)   The management and administration of the plan is hereby vested in
the Pension Board, which shall consist of five resident electors of the town
who shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen.
      (2)   The terms of the Board Members are as follows: three terms shall be
filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2024; two terms shall
be filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2026. Thereafter,
the terms for each of the members shall be four years.
      (3)   One of the members shall be an employee of the town who is a member
of the plan. Two of the members shall be experienced in making investments of
the kind in which the pension fund may be invested.
      (4)   The First Selectman, Finance Director, and Human Resource Director
shall be ex-officio members. They shall not have a vote and shall not be
counted in determining a quorum.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Pension Board may make rules and regulations for the
administration of the plan which are not inconsistent with its terms and
provisions. The Pension Board may construe the plan, and its constructions
thereof and action thereon in good faith shall be final and conclusive. It may
correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in
such manner and to such extent as it shall deem expedient to carry the same
into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. The
Pension Board shall supervise and control the operation of the plan in
accordance with the terms hereof and shall have all powers necessary to
accomplish that purpose.
      (2)   The Pension Board may employ such actuarial, legal, consulting and
other services as it deems necessary for the proper operation of the plan or
pension fund within the limit of such appropriations as may be made for such
purposes. The town, as directed by the First Selectman, may provide
administrative support for the Pension Board and shall employ such staff as may
be approved by the Board of Selectmen for such purpose.
   (D)   Investment powers.
      (1)   The Pension Board shall manage and control the pension fund and
shall invest and reinvest the principal and income of such fund, except so much
thereof as the Pension Board shall deem necessary to meet allowances and
benefits hereunder, in securities legal for investment by trustees under the
laws of this state. The Pension Board may invest any portion of the pension
fund in any group trust or common trust fund exempt from tax under § 501(a) or
§ 584, respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that
holds assets of retirement plans exempt from tax under § 401(a) of such code.
Any such group trust or common trust fund shall be considered a part of the
plan.
      (2)   The Pension Board may provide by trust, agency, custodian or other
agreement with one or more corporate fiduciaries for the custody, safekeeping,
handling, investment and reinvestment, under the direction of the Pension
Board, of the pension fund's investments.
      (3)   The Pension Board may open in the name of the town pension plan,
with one or more banks or trust companies, such accounts as it shall deem
necessary for the deposit and withdrawal of the funds received by it and which
are to be administered under the terms and provisions of the pension plan.
   (E)   Insurance. The Pension Board may procure in the name of the town an
appropriate group contract or contracts from any insurance company duly
authorized to transact business in the state for the purpose of funding all or
a portion of the benefits available from time to time under the plan. The type
of contract or contracts and all terms and conditions thereof shall be
determined by the Pension Board on a basis which is consistent with the
provisions of the plan. No publicly owned corporation, insurance company, or
bank shall be disqualified from being the trustee, agent, custodian or
depository, or from participating in the funding management of the pension fund
pursuant to this section, solely because one or more members of the Pension
Board may be an employee, officer, director or minority stockholder of such
corporation, insurance company or bank.
   (F)   Reports.
      (1)   The Pension Board shall submit annually to the Board of Selectmen a
schedule of its estimated expenses necessary for the administration of the plan
and its estimate of the liability of the town to the Pension Board.
      (2)   The Pension Board shall annually report to the Board of Selectmen
the financial condition of the plan, including, at least every other year, an
actuarial valuation of assets and liabilities and setting forth such other
facts, recommendations and data as may be of value to the members of the plan
and the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. passed 2-16-2022)
CHAPTER 32: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Setting the number of Justices of the Peace
Board of Police Commissioners
   
32.15   Established
   
32.16   Composition
   
32.17   Powers
   
32.18   Police Department
   
32.19   Chief of Police
   
32.20   Establishment of policies and procedures
   
32.21   Establishment of Police Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 SETTING THE NUMBER OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-183a, Revision of 1958, as amended, the
number of Justices of the Peace to be elected at the regular election in
November, 1988 and each four years thereafter shall be 101.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1988)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 226D
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a seven member Board of Police Commissioners for
the purpose of organizing and maintaining a Police Department in the town.
   (B)   The Board shall have all the authority, powers and responsibilities
set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-276, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.16 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall consist of seven resident
electors of the town appointed by the Board of Selectmen. The terms are as
follows: three terms shall be filled by appointment of four years until the
first Monday of January, 2022; four terms shall be filled by appointment until
the first Monday of January, 2020, which terms shall expire on the first Monday
of January, 2024.
   (B)   No member of the Board of Police Commissioners shall hold any other
elective or appointed office within the town.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.17 POWERS.
   The Board shall have all of the powers given by the General Statutes to
boards of police commissioners, shall have general management and supervision
of the Police Department of the town and of the property and equipment used in
connection therewith, shall make all needful regulations for the government
thereof not contrary to law or applicable collective bargaining agreements and
may prescribe suitable penalties for the violation of any such regulation. The
Board shall have the sole power of appointment, promotion and removal of the
officers and members of such Police Department, under such regulations as it
adopts for the purpose, and such appointees shall hold office during good
behavior and until removed for cause upon written charges and after hearing.
The members of such Police Department shall have all such authority with
respect to the service of criminal process and the enforcement of the criminal
laws as is vested by the General Statutes in police officers and constables.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.18 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department, under the direction of the Board of Police
Commissioners, shall be responsible for the preservation of the public peace,
prevention of crime, apprehension of criminals, regulation of traffic,
protection of rights of persons and property and enforcement of the laws of the
state, and the ordinances of the town and all rules and regulations made in
accordance therewith. All members of the Department, except clerks, shall have
the same powers and duties with respect to the service of criminal process and
enforcement of the criminal laws as are vested in officers by the General
Statutes.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.19 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
other officers of rank, patrol officers, supernumeraries and clerks as may be
necessary to discharge the duties of the Police Department. The establishment
of grades within the Department shall be at the discretion of the Board of
Police Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   The appointment of the Chief of Police shall be made only after
certification of the applicant by the State of Connecticut Police Officer
Standards and Training Council. The Chief, or in his or her absence, the
officer of rank designated by the Board of Police Commissioners, shall be
responsible for the administration of the affairs of the Police Department,
under the direction of the Board of Police Commissioners.
      (2)   The duties of the Chief shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Be responsible for the day to day operation of the Police
Department; report on such operation to the Board of Police Commissioners at
such intervals as said Board shall establish;
         (b)   Initiate and cause to be carried out a continuing program for
instruction and training of personnel for the Department;
         (c)   Develop and preserve system records with respect to law
enforcement and other activities of Department personnel and communications
maintained by the Department;
         (d)   Maintain records of all personnel within the Department, by
rank, grade and category, and render periodic reports to the Board of Police
Commissioners with respect to the performance of duty of such personnel;
         (e)   Establish schedules and rules with respect to the kind of duties
within the Department;
         (f)   Be personally responsible for the review of records with respect
to all arrests, accidents and complaints made by or to the Department and
render a monthly report to the Board of Police Commissioners with respect
thereto; and
         (g)   Report to the Board of Police Commissioners any neglect of duty
or violation of the Department's rules and regulations promptly after any such
neglect or violation comes to his or her attention.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may be suspended or removed from office by the
Board of Police Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of Connecticut
General Statutes, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners may establish policies and
procedures regarding the assignment of any member or members of the Police
Department to special duty on or near private premises or the highways adjacent
thereto within the town whenever in the opinion of said Board the activities
conducted thereon shall or may cause persons to congregate or create a
hazardous condition, such as construction or utility projects, concerts,
sporting events, circuses, carnivals, fairs, motion pictures, outdoor theaters,
bars, restaurants or other places to preserve the public safety.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any such private premises upon which any such
activity is conducted within the town shall accept and use the police so
assigned to or near such premises and shall pay to the Treasurer of the town
such rate of compensation as shall be determined by the Board of Police
Commissioners for such special duty. Said payment shall be made in accordance
with such procedures as shall be established by the Board of Police
Commissioners.
   (C)   Police so assigned to such special duty shall be subject to the rules
and regulations of the Department.
   (D)   No person shall operate within the town any construction or utility
project, concert, sporting event, circus, carnival, fair, motion picture,
outdoor theater, bar, restaurant or other place to which or adjacent to which
premises the Board of Police Commissioners has assigned any police without
first having accepted and used such number of police as have been assigned
thereto.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
§ 32.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter and transition from the constabulary,
the Police Department shall be considered as “established” when the Board of
Police Commissioners has adopted such regulations and procedures as may be
necessary or desirable for the proper functioning of a Police Department, and
sufficient funds have been appropriated to the Board and a Chief of Police has
been appointed and sworn. The Board of Police Commissioners shall certify to
the Town Clerk and the Board of Selectmen the date on which the Police
Department is established.
   (B)   On the date the Police Department is established, the appointment of
constables pursuant to the ordinance entitled “Amended Ordinance Concerning
Terms of Appointment and Qualifications of Constables” shall terminate, and the
full-time officers in active service and in good standing as constables shall
be officers of the Police Department.
   (C)   On the date the Police Department is established, the ordinance
entitled “Resolution Designating First Selectman as Town Agent to act as Chief
of Police” shall be repealed.
   (D)   On the date the Police Department is established, the ordinance
entitled “Resolution Regarding Establishment of a Resident State Policeman in
the Town of East Lyme” shall be repealed.
   (E)   On the date that the Police Department is established, officers who
were appointed by the Board of Selectmen as constables pursuant to the
ordinance entitled “Amended Ordinance Concerning Terms of Appointment and
Qualifications of Constables” and are in active service and in good standing on
the effective date of this section, shall be officers of the Police Department,
with such rank, years of service and other classifications and categories as
are commensurate with their positions in the constabulary. Unsworn clerks and
administrative personnel who are in active service and in good standing on the
effective date of this section shall be employees of the Police Department in
positions commensurate with their previous service for the constabulary.
   (F)   On the date the Police Department is established, all business pending
with the constabulary, including, but not limited to, applications, permits,
patrols, arrests, investigations, enforcement actions, warrants and all other
open or pending items of business of any nature whatsoever, and records of any
kind or nature whatsoever pertaining to the law enforcement and administrative
functions of the constabulary, shall be transferred to and continue to be
pending at the Police Department. All items of property and equipment used in
connection with the business of the constabulary shall continue to be used by
the Police Department.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
Board for Admission of Electors
   
33.01   Board for Admission of Electors
Voting Districts and Registrar of Voters
   
33.15   Voting districts
   
33.16   Registrars of Voters
BOARD FOR ADMISSION OF ELECTORS
§ 33.01 BOARD FOR ADMISSION OF ELECTORS.
   The Board for Admission of Electors shall consist of the Town Clerk and the
Registrars of Voters for the First District.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1970)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 245
VOTING DISTRICTS AND REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
§ 33.15 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The town is divided into three voting districts.
   (B)   The first voting district comprises all the area lying northwest of
U.S. Route I-95 (the Connecticut Turnpike).
   (C)   The second voting district comprises:
      (1)   All the area lying southeast of U.S. Route I-95 and east and
southeast of the following line: commencing at the intersection of the
centerline of Route 161 with the southeasterly line of U.S. Route I-95, thence
run southerly along the centerline of Route 161 to the centerline of East
Pattagansett Road, thence run southerly along the centerline of East
Pattagansett Road to the centerline of Black Point Road, thence run southerly,
southwesterly and southerly along the centerline of Black Point Road to its
intersection with the railroad; thence run westerly along the railroad to its
intersection with the easterly shore of the Pattagansett River; thence run
generally southerly along the easterly shore of the Pattagansett River to the
most southerly point of Old Black Point.
      (2)   All properties having street numbers assigned by the town on:
         (a)   The portion of Route 161 lying south of U.S. Route I-95;
         (b)   East Pattagansett Road;
         (c)   Black Point Road to its intersection with the railroad;
         (d)   Brook Road;
         (e)   Faulkner Drive; and
         (f)   McElaney Drive.
      (3)   The property on which is located Niantic Center School.
   (D)   The third voting district comprises all the area not included in the
first or second voting districts.
(Ord. passed 1-18-1995)
§ 33.16 REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.
   At each state election, there shall be elected two registrars of voters for
the entire town.
(Ord. passed 1-18-1995)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Authorizing Tax Collector to retain payments in excess of the amount
due provided the excess is less than $5
   
34.002   Persons owing past due property taxes
   
34.003   Property on which property taxes are past due
   
34.004   Abatement and deferral of payment of property tax
   
34.005   Date taxes become past due
   
34.006   Tax abatement program for certain emergency services volunteers
Tax Exempt Organizations
   
34.020   Property tax exemption for property leased to tax-exempt organizations
   
34.021   Property acquired by tax exempt organizations
Solar Energy Systems
   
34.035   Tax exemption for solar energy systems
Veterans or Their Surviving Spouses
   
34.050   Additional tax exemption
Motor Vehicles Modified for Disabled Persons
   
34.065   Property tax exemption for certain motor vehicles modified for
disabled persons
Elderly and Totally Disabled Homeowners
   
34.080   Property tax relief for elderly and totally disabled homeowners
Low and Moderate Income Housing
   
34.095   Definitions
   
34.096   Contracts for abatement
   
34.097   Term
   
34.098   Valuation
   
34.099   State assistance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 AUTHORIZING TAX COLLECTOR TO RETAIN PAYMENTS IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNT
DUE PROVIDED THE EXCESS IS LESS THAN $5.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129, the Tax
Collector is hereby authorized to retain payments of taxes in excess of the
amount due, provided the amount of each such excess payment is less than $5.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2008)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 814
§ 34.002 PERSONS OWING PAST DUE PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   The Treasurer, before making payment to any person for services
rendered to or materials purchased for the town shall ascertain from the Tax
Collector whether such person owes past due taxes on real or personal property.
Any such past due taxes and any interest and fees in respect thereto, shall be
deducted from the amount due and owing from the town to any such person and
shall be paid to the Tax Collector and applied to such taxes, interest and
fees.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the payment of
wages.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1983)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 2
§ 34.003 PROPERTY ON WHICH PROPERTY TAXES ARE PAST DUE.
   No building permit, certificate of occupancy or permit for excavation in a
highway for purposes of installing a driveway shall be issued as to any real
property on which there are past due property taxes.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1983)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 2
§ 34.004 ABATEMENT AND DEFERRAL OF PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Public Act 82-1 of the June, 1982
Special Session of the General Assembly, property taxes on real and personal
property damaged as a result of the flooding and related occurrences in the
period from June 4, 1982 to June 7, 1982, inclusive are abated as provided in
this section.
   (B)   Such abatement shall be equal to one-third of the total property tax
determined as the same proportionate part of such total tax as the damaged
portion of such property bears to the entire property subject to such tax;
provided, however, that no abatement shall take effect unless the loss in
assessed value resulting from such damage is not less than 10% of the assessed
value of such damaged property.
   (C)   Any construction or reconstruction related to property so damaged with
respect to which property taxes have been abated as provided in this section
shall be subject to property tax as provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-53a.
   (D)   With respect to any real or personal property damaged as a result of
such flooding and related occurrences which qualifies for property tax
abatement under division (B) above, payment of the property tax may be deferred
without interest until July 1, 1983.
   (E)   Applications for the abatement provided for in division (A) above and
for the deferral of payment provided for in division (D) above shall be filed
with the Assessor in a form to be determined by the Assessor not later than
September 10. The Assessor shall notify the applicants of his or her decision
not later than September 30.
   (F)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the actions of the Assessor
under this section may appeal to the Board of Tax Review on or before October
8, 1982.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 261
§ 34.005 DATE TAXES BECOME PAST DUE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   To designate April 1, 1977 as the date on which property taxes for
the tax year beginning September 1, 1976 and ending June 30, 1977, shall be due
and payable.
      (2)   To provide that commencing on July 1, 1977, property taxes shall be
due and payable in two equal semi-annual installments with the first
installment due and payable on July 1 and the second installment due and
payable on January 1; provided, however, that all property taxes on motor
vehicles shall be due and payable in a single installment on July 1, as
required by the 1976 General Assembly; provided further, that all other
property taxes of $100 or less shall be due and payable in full on July 1.
   (B)   Assessment date. To designate October 1, 1976 as the assessment date
for property taxes on motor vehicles for the tax year ending June 30, 1977, as
required by the 1976 General Assembly.
(Res. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 246
§ 34.006 TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN EMERGENCY SERVICES VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   Tax abatement program. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81w, there is
hereby established a tax abatement program for certain emergency services
volunteers. The purpose of this program is to retain existing volunteers and
attract new volunteers.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABATEMENT LIST. A list of eligible residents, as defined herein,
qualifying for this tax abatement program. The abatement list shall be
certified by a vote of the Executive Board of the Flanders Volunteer Fire
Department and the Board of Directors of the Niantic Volunteer Fire Department
and reported by the respective Fire Chiefs of those departments to the Tax
Collector's Office on or before the certification date, as defined herein.
      BENEFIT. A reduction in property tax liability of no more than $1,000 per
eligible resident from the total property taxes that would otherwise be due
from that resident for the assessment year following the certification date.
Where an eligible resident has a total property tax liability of less than
$1,000, the benefit shall be limited to the extent of the eligible resident's
total property tax liability. An eligible resident appearing on the abatement
list for both the Flanders Volunteer Fire Department and the Niantic Volunteer
Fire Department shall be eligible for only one benefit.
      CERTIFICATION DATE. September 30 of each year.
      ELIGIBLE RESIDENT. Each resident of the Town of East Lyme who volunteers
his or her services either:
         (a)   1.   As an active nonsalaried state certified firefighter #1,
emergency medical technician, or emergency medical responder for the Flanders
Volunteer Fire Department; and
            2.   Responds to at least 15% of the eligible calls in the 12-month
period ending August 31 preceding the current certification date; and
            3.   Is in compliance with the applicable requirements holding
active service status within the department; or
         (b)   1.   As an active nonsalaried state certified firefighter #1,
emergency medical technician, or emergency medical responder for the Niantic
Volunteer Fire Department; and
            2.   Responds to at least 15% of the eligible calls in the 12-month
period ending August 31 preceding the current certification date; and
            3.   Is in compliance with the applicable requirements for holding
active service status within the department.
   (C)   Administration. On or before the certification date, the respective
Fire Chiefs of the Flanders Volunteer Fire Department and the Niantic Volunteer
Fire Department shall transmit the abatement list as certified by the Board of
Directors or Executive Board for the respective departments, to the Tax
Collector and shall forward copies of the abatement list and certification to
the Office of the First Selectman. Upon receipt of the abatement list, the Tax
Collector shall adjust the property tax bills of each eligible resident for the
assessment year following the certification date by applying the maximum
allowable benefit for each eligible resident. In no case shall an eligible
resident receive a benefit in excess of his or her total tax liability.
   (D)   Data retention. The Fire Chiefs of the Flanders Volunteer Fire
Department and the Niantic Volunteer Fire Department shall retain the data used
to determine eligible resident status for the abatement list for a period of
two years following the certification date applicable to that abatement list.
Said data shall be made available for inspection by the Tax Collector upon
request by the Tax Collector.
   (E)   Regulation of volunteer requirements. This section shall not alter or
impair the ability of the Flanders Volunteer Fire Department or the Niantic
Volunteer Fire Department to alter existing qualifications or establish
additional qualifications for active service status in each department. Any
change in qualifications for active service status in each department
hereinafter made by the respective departments shall apply to the eligible
resident criteria set forth in division (B)(1) and (2) above without further
action by the Board of Selectmen.
   (F)   No interlocal agreement. Without further action by the Board of
Selectman and reciprocal treatment from another municipality, this section
shall not be deemed to grant a benefit to a resident of the town who serves as
an emergency volunteer in another municipality.
(Ord. passed - -)
TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS
§ 34.020 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR PROPERTY LEASED TO TAX-EXEMPT
ORGANIZATIONS.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(58), an exemption from property tax is
authorized for personal property leased to a charitable, religious or nonprofit
organization which is exempt from taxation for federal income tax purposes;
provided such property is used exclusively for the purposes of such charitable,
religious or nonprofit organization.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1986)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 37
§ 34.021 PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The property tax exemption authorized by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(7)
to (16), inclusive, as amended, shall be effective as of the date of
acquisition of the property to which the exemption applies by a tax-exempt
organization.
   (B)   The Board of Selectmen shall, upon application by such a tax-exempt
organization, authorize reimbursement of such organization for any tax paid by
it for a period subsequent to such date of acquisition, and for any tax paid by
the prior owner subsequent to such date of acquisition for which such
organization reimburses such owner.
(Ord. passed 12-5-1977)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 38
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 34.035 TAX EXEMPTION FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §12-81, as amended, an exemption
from property tax is authorized for the following:
         (a)   Any building, the construction of which is commenced on or after
October 1, 1976 and before October 1, 1991, which is equipped with an active
solar energy heating or cooling system;
         (b)   Any building to which an active solar energy heating or cooling
system is added on or after October 1, 1976 and before October 1, 1991;
         (c)   Any solar energy electricity generating system which is
installed for the generation of electricity for private residential use,
provided such installation occurs on or after October 1, 1977 and before
October 1, 1991.
         (d)   Any building, the construction of which is commenced on or after
April 20, 1997 which is equipped with a passive or hybrid solar energy heating
or cooling system; and
         (e)   Any building to which a passive or hybrid solar energy heating
or cooling system is added on or after April 20, 1997.
      (2)   ACTIVE SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in divisions
(A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) above means equipment which:
         (a)   Provides for the collection, transfer, storage and use of
incident solar energy for water heating, space heating or cooling which absent
such solar energy system would require a conventional energy resource, such as
petroleum products, natural gas or electricity;
         (b)   Employs mechanical means such as fans or pumps to transfer
energy; and
         (c)   Which meets standards established by regulation by the Secretary
of the Office of Policy and Management.
      (3)   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in divisions
(A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above means a system which utilizes the structural
elements of a building for the collection of incident solar energy and its
storage and distribution for use in water heating or space heating or cooling;
which building absent such system would require a conventional energy resource,
such a petroleum products, natural gas or electricity, and which system meets
standards established by regulation by the Secretary of the Office of Policy
and Management.
      (4)   HYBRID SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in divisions
(A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above means a solar energy heating or cooling system
which consists of both active and passive elements and which meets the
standards established for both.
      (5)   SOLAR ENERGY ELECTRICITY GENERATING SYSTEM. Equipment which is
designed, operated and installed as a system at any private residential
location, which utilizes solar energy to produce electricity for consumption at
such location and which meets standards established by regulation by the
Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.
   (B)   The extent of the exemptions granted by divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)
(b) above is the amount by which the assessed valuation of such real property
equipped with such a system exceeds the assessed valuation of such real
property equipped with the conventional portion of the heating of cooling
system, exclusive of any portion of such system related to solar energy, as
determined by the Assessor.
   (C)   The extent of the exemptions granted by divisions (A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)
(d) above is the amount by which the assessed valuation of such real property
equipped with such a system exceeds the valuation of which such real property
would be assessed if building using conventional construction techniques in
lieu of construction related to such a system, as determined by the Assessor.
   (D)   These exemptions shall only apply to the first 15 assessment years
following construction of said building or the addition or installation of any
such system to a building.
   (E)   Application for such exemptions must be filed in accordance with the
relevant subsections of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81 and on or before November 1
following the annual assessment date. Such application shall not be required
for any assessment year following that for which the initial application is
filed; provided if such system is altered in a manner which would require a
building permit, such alteration shall be deemed a waiver of the right to such
exemption until a new application, applicable with respect to such altered
system, is filed and the right to such exemption is established as required
initially.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981; Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-19-2008)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 140; Amended, See page 232
   TM Volume 21, page 752; TM Volume 22, page 804
VETERANS OR THEIR SURVIVING SPOUSES
§ 34.050 ADDITIONAL TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any veteran entitled to an exemption from property tax in accordance
with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(19) shall be entitled to an additional exemption,
provided such veteran’s qualifying income does not exceed the applicable
maximum amount as provided under Conn. Gen. Stat.§ 12-81, as it may be amended
from time to time, plus $2,000. The exemption provided for under Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 12-81(19) shall be applied to the assessed value of an eligible
veteran’s property and shall be in the amount of $5,000.
   (B)   Any veteran’s surviving spouse entitled to an exemption from property
tax in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(22) shall be entitled to an
additional exemption, provided such surviving spouse’s qualifying income does
not exceed the applicable maximum amount as provided under Conn. Gen. Stat. §
12-81, as it may be amended from time to time, plus $2,000. The exemption
provided for under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(22) shall be applied to the
assessed value of an eligible surviving spouse’s property and shall be in the
amount of $5,000.
   (C)   Any such veteran or spouse submitting a claim for such additional
exemption shall be required to file an application on a form prepared for such
purpose by the Assessor, not later than the assessment date with respect to
which such additional exemption is claimed; provided when an applicant has
filed for such exemption and received approval for the first time, such
applicant shall be required to file for such exemption biennially thereafter,
subject to the provisions of division (D) below. Each such application shall
include a copy of such veteran’s or spouse’s federal income tax return, or in
the event such a return is not filed such evidence related to income as may be
required by the Assessor, for the tax year of such veteran or spouse ending
immediately prior to the assessment date with respect to which such additional
exemption is claimed.
   (D)   Any person who has submitted an application and been approved in any
year for the additional exemption under divisions (A) or (B) above shall, in
the year immediately following approval, be presumed to be qualified for such
exemption. During the year immediately following such approval, the Assessor
shall notify, in writing, each person presumed to be qualified pursuant to this
division (D) of their duty to reapply for continuance of the exemption or to
inform the Assessor of any change in circumstances that disqualifies them from
such exemption. If any such person has qualifying income in excess of the
maximum allowed under said divisions (A) or (B) above, such person shall notify
the Assessor on or before the next filing date for such exemption and shall be
denied such exemption for the assessment year immediately following and for any
subsequent year until such person has reapplied and again qualified for such
exemption. Any person who fails to notify the assessor of such disqualification
shall make payment to the municipality in the amount of property tax loss
related to the exemption improperly taken.
(Ord. effective 10-1-2006)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 572
MOTOR VEHICLES MODIFIED FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 34.065 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES MODIFIED FOR
DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81c(3), an exemption from personal
property tax is authorized for certain modified disabled-accessible motor
vehicles, owned by such disabled person or his or her parent, that are used
primarily for the transportation of disabled persons.
   (B)   A MODIFIED DISABLED-ACCESSIBLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall be defined as any
production motor vehicle that has been altered or reconfigured, or has
undergone mechanical or structural changes, that is not used for commercial
purposes, which permits an individual with a disability to safely drive or ride
as a passenger. Vehicle modifications shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Wheelchair or scooter loaders which mount on the roof in the
passenger area or in the trunk or other storage areas of a car or other motor
vehicle;
      (2)   Any vehicle which has had automotive adaptive control devices
(“AACDs”) installed. AACDs shall include any mechanical or electrical devices
added to the standard motor vehicle to enable an individual with mobility
restrictions to control the accelerator, foot brake, turn signals, dimmer
switch, steering wheel or parking brake; and
      (3)   Any vehicle equipped with ramps, stretchers or other special
seating and alterations to accommodate medical equipment.
   (C)   The Tax Assessor shall determine whether modifications not
specifically listed in division (B) above qualify the vehicle as a modified
disabled-accessible motor vehicle.
   (D)   Any person who desires to claim the exemption provided in this section
shall file with the Tax Assessor of the town, before October 1 of any
assessment year for which exemption is claimed, a written request for said
exemption containing information sufficient to enable the Tax Assessor to make
a determination of eligibility, including, but not limited to, a letter from a
physician and documentation of the modification. Failure to file such a request
in said manner shall constitute a waiver of the right to such exemption for the
assessment year.
(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 555
ELDERLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED HOMEOWNERS
§ 34.080 PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FOR ELDERLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED HOMEOWNERS.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129n, property tax relief for qualified
elderly and totally disabled homeowners in the town is hereby provided with
respect to real property owned and occupied by such residents as their
principal residence, on the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   Applicants must be residents of the town who are:
      (1)   Sixty-five years of age or over, or whose spouses, living with
them, are 65 years of age or over and the surviving spouse of a taxpayer who
has qualified under this section at the time of his or her death or with
respect to real property for which such residents or their spouses are liable
for real property taxes under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-48; or
      (2)   Under age 65 and eligible in accordance with applicable federal
regulations to receive permanent total disability benefits under Social
Security, or have not been engaged in employment covered by Social Security and
have not qualified for benefits thereunder, but are qualified for permanent
total disability benefits under any federal, state or local government
retirement or disability plan, including the Railroad Retirement Act and any
government-related teacher’s retirement plan with requirements regarding
qualifications for such permanent total disability benefits that are comparable
to such requirements under Social Security, and are liable for real property
taxes under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-48.
   (B)   Applicants must have been taxpayers of the town for ten years
immediately preceding their receipt of tax relief under this section, and shall
be current in their payment of property taxes to the town as of the date of
application.
   (C)   The property for which tax relief is claimed must be occupied by an
applicant as his or her principal residence for more than 183 days of each
year.
   (D)   Applicants shall have individually, if unmarried, or jointly, if
married, adjusted gross income, as shown on Internal Revenue Service 1040,
Social Security benefits and all other income, hereinafter called “qualifying
income” during the calendar year preceding the filing of his or her application
in accordance with the standards set forth below.
   (E)   (1)   Tax credits shall be provided to qualified applicants on a
graduated basis in accordance with the following income and credit standards:
 
Qualifying Income Tax Credit
$0—$13,300      $1,000
$13,301—$18,100 $900
$18,101—$22,600 $600
$22,601—$27,100 $400
$27,101—$33,000 $300
 
      (2)   The “qualifying income” standards in the table set forth above
shall be adjusted annually in accordance with the determination of the
Secretary of the Connecticut Office of Policy and Management as distributed to
the Assessor in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-170aa(b)(2).
   (F)   Persons who qualify for property tax relief under this section may
also qualify for deferral of the remaining amount of taxes on qualifying real
property; provided that the real property tax which would have been imposed on
a qualifying taxpayer in the absence of state and local tax relief shall not be
reduced by more than 75% by virtue of the tax credit and deferment provided by
this section, together with all other tax relief obtained by said person
pursuant to the Connecticut General Statutes. Any such deferral shall be on the
following terms and conditions.
      (1)   All deferred taxes and interest shall be reimbursed to the town
upon the death of the recipient of any tax deferral, or upon conveyance or
transfer of the real property subject to tax deferral.
      (2)   All deferred taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per year.
Such interest shall be simple interest, not compounded, and shall accrue from
the due date of each installment until the date of reimbursement to the town.
      (3)   Total tax deferments, including accrued interest, for all years
shall not exceed the assessed value of the real property upon which deferment
has been approved.
      (4)   An applicant receiving a tax deferment shall enter into a written
agreement with the town providing for reimbursement of all deferred taxes and
interest. The principal amount of such tax deferral shall be recorded in the
land records of the town and, together with the interest thereon, shall
constitute a lien on the property. All deferred taxes and interest shall be
payable upon death, conveyance or transfer, as set forth in division (F)(2)
above.
   (G)   The property tax relief provided by this section shall be in addition
to and not dependent upon those benefits available to qualified taxpayers under
the Connecticut General Statutes; provided that the town and state tax relief
in any year shall not exceed 100% of the real property tax which would have
been imposed on a qualified taxpayer in the absence of said statutes and this
section.
   (H)   If the state denies the eligibility of an applicant for the portion of
tax relief granted under one of the state tax relief programs, the Assessor
shall deny the applicant the local share of tax relief, and remove the
applicant from the town’s tax relief records.
   (I)   The total of all tax relief granted under the provisions of this
section shall not in any taxable year exceed an amount equal to 10% of the
total town-wide real property tax assessed in the town in the preceding tax
year.
   (J)   When title to real property is recorded in the name of the taxpayer or
his or her spouse who receive tax relief under this section and any other
person or persons, the tax relief under this section shall be prorated to allow
tax relief equivalent to the fractional share in the property of such taxpayer
or spouse. The persons not otherwise eligible for tax relief shall not receive
any tax credit.
   (K)   Upon the sale, conveyance or transfer of the property, the new owner
shall not be entitled tax relief under this section. The Assessor and Tax
Collector shall prorate the increased tax liability from the date of sale or
transfer and bill the new owner within a reasonable time thereafter.
   (L)   The Tax Collector and Assessor shall prescribe, with regard to their
respective duties under this section, such forms and procedures as may be
necessary to implement this section. The Assessor, in addition, shall satisfy
himself or herself as to the qualifying income of an applicant for benefits
under this section by requesting and reviewing such evidence of qualifying
income as he or she may deem pertinent. All applications, federal income tax
returns filed therewith and any additional evidence of qualifying income which
the assessor may require shall be kept confidential and not open to public
inspection.
   (M)   Applications for benefits under this section shall be filed with the
Assessor between February 1 and May 15, annually.
   (N)   This section shall be applicable to the Grand List of October 1, 2006
and all subsequent Grand Lists.
(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 556
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
§ 34.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING. Housing, the construction or rehabilitation
of which is aided or assisted in any way by any federal or state statute, which
housing is subject to regulation or supervision of rents, charges or sales
prices and methods of operation by a governmental agency under a regulatory
agreement or other instrument which restricts occupancy of such housing to
persons or families whose incomes do not exceed prescribed limits, and shall be
deemed to include the land on which such housing is situated.
   OWNER. A person or persons, partnership, joint venture or corporation who or
which has executed, or will execute, a regulatory agreement or other instrument
with a governmental agency which limits occupancy of the low and moderate
income housing owned or to be owned by such person or persons, partnership,
joint venture or corporation to persons or families whose incomes do not exceed
prescribed limits.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 220
§ 34.096 CONTRACTS FOR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Selectmen may enter into contracts for the town with
owners of low and moderate income housing granting abatement, in whole or in
part, of the real property taxes on such housing; provided, that such abatement
need not be conditioned upon receipt of state reimbursement to the town for
such abatement; and provided further that each such contract shall require that
the owner apply the money equivalent of the taxes so abated to one or more of
the following specified purposes:
      (1)   To reduce rents below the levels which would be achieved in the
absence of abatement;
      (2)   To improve housing quality and design;
      (3)   To effect occupancy by persons and families of varying income
levels, within prescribed limits; or
      (4)   To provide necessary related facilities.
   (B)   The amount of such abatement shall be established in each such
contract, giving due consideration to the purpose or purposes to which the
money equivalent of the taxes so abated is to be applied.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 220
§ 34.097 TERM.
   The abatement shall become effective on the date specified in the contract
between the town and the owner of low and moderate income housing. The term of
abatement shall extend for the remainder of the fiscal year in which such
abatement becomes effective and may continue for a period not to exceed 39
consecutive fiscal years thereafter; provided, that such abatement shall
terminate at any time when the property for which tax abatement had been
granted is not used solely for low and moderate income housing.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 220
§ 34.098 VALUATION.
   For the purpose of determining the amount of taxes to be abated as
aforesaid, the present true and actual value of low and moderate income housing
on which rents and carrying charges are limited by regulatory agreement with,
or otherwise regulated by, the federal or state government or department or
agency thereof, shall be based upon and shall not exceed the capitalized value
of the net rental income of such housing; provided, that for the purposes of
this section, NET RENTAL INCOME shall mean gross income as limited by the
schedule of rents or carrying charges, less reasonable operating expenses and
property taxes.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 220
§ 34.099 STATE ASSISTANCE.
   The Board of Selectmen may enter into contracts with the state for financial
assistance by the state in the form of reimbursement for all or any part of the
tax abatement granted to an owner of low and moderate income housing in
accordance with this subchapter but the entering into of such a contract for
financial assistance need not be a condition of any tax abatement.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 220
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Lost goods
Ethics Code
   
35.15   Declaration of policy and purpose
   
35.16   Applicability
   
35.17   Definitions
   
35.18   Standards of conduct
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 LOST GOODS.
   (A)   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 50-9 to 50-13, Revision of 1958,
as amended, are adopted and made applicable to lost goods within the town.
   (B)   Any person who finds and takes possession of any article of the value
of $1 or more shall report the finding of such article to the Police Department
of the town within 48 hours from the time of such finding. The finder of such
article shall, at the time of reporting, furnish to the Police Department the
date, time and place of finding, his or her name and address and a description
of the article found and, within a period of one week from such finding, shall
deliver such article to the Police Department.
   (C)   The Police Department shall, commencing within one week from the date
of receipt of any lost article, advertise a general description of such article
once a week for at least two successive weeks in a newspaper having a
circulation in the town and shall retain custody of such article for six months
from the date of receipt thereof, unless it is claimed by the rightful owner
within such six-month period. The requirement of advertising may be omitted
when the value or estimated value of the article is less than $2. Perishable or
obnoxious property or articles of a dangerous or harmful nature may be sold or
otherwise disposed of as soon as practicable on the best terms available.
   (D)   If the owner of any such article claims it within six months from the
date of receipt by the Police Department, the article or the proceeds thereof
shall be restored to him or her upon payment or deduction of all proper
charges.
   (E)   If no owner claims such article within six months from the receipt
thereof by the Police Department, the Police Department shall, within two weeks
thereafter, notify the finder of such fact by registered or certified mail at
his or her last-known address, and the article or the proceeds thereof shall be
turned over to the finder, upon demand by him or her within 30 days from the
expiration of the six-month period and upon payment or deduction of all proper
charges; but, if such finder fails to demand such article or the proceeds
thereof or refuses to pay such charges within 30 days from the expiration of
the six-month period, such article or proceeds shall belong to the town. The
requirement of notification may be omitted when the value or estimated value of
the article is less than $5.
   (F)   The Police Department shall sell at public auction any articles which
it acquires as provided herein after the expiration of time for the owner or
finder to demand the same and after the time and place of such sale and a
description of the articles to be sold have been advertised once a week for two
successive weeks in a newspaper having a circulation in the town. The net
proceeds from such sales and the unclaimed net proceeds from the sales of
perishable or obnoxious property or articles of a dangerous or harmful nature
shall be paid to the Treasurer of the town, who shall deposit them in the
Police Benefit Fund, if any, of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 255
ETHICS CODE
§ 35.15 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Public office is a public trust. In order for the town government to
function most efficiently, the trust of the public is critical. Public policy
developed by government officials and employees impacts every citizen and
property owner of the town, and as such, must be consistently based on honest
and fair deliberation and decisions. The process of policy formulation and
decision making must be free from threats, favoritism, undue influence and even
the appearance of impropriety so that the confidence of the public in the town
government is maintained.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 704
§ 35.16 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The Code shall apply to all public town officials and town employees
whether elected or appointed, paid or unpaid.
   (B)   All of the above shall be referred to hereinafter as “persons governed
by this Code”.
   (C)   A provision of this Code shall not be applicable if it conflicts in
whole or in part with any provisions of any labor agreement, employment
contract or state statute.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)
§ 35.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Any board, commission, department, authority and advisory committee
of the town.
   BUSINESS. Any entity through which business for profit or not for profit is
conducted including a corporation, company, partnership, proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization or self-employed person.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information, whether transmitted orally or in
writing, which is obtained by reason of the public position or office held and
is of such a nature that it is not at the time of transmission a matter of
public record or public knowledge.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a town
official or employee as a result of a contract, transaction, decision or other
matter which is, or may be, the subject of any official act or action by or
with the town except for such contracts or transactions which by their terms
and by the substance of their provisions confer the opportunity and right to
realize the accrual of similar benefits to all persons and/or property owners
similarly situated.
   GIFT.
      (1)   Anything of value in excess of $25.
      (2)   The term GIFT does not include:
         (a)   A political contribution otherwise reported as required by law
or a donation or payment as described in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 9-333b(b)(9) or
(11):
         (b)   Services provided by persons volunteering their time;
         (c)   A commercially reasonable loan made on terms not more favorable
than loans made in the ordinary course of business;
         (d)   A gift received from:
            1.   An individual’s spouse, fiancé or fiancée;
            2.   The parent, brother or sister of such spouse or such
individual; or
            3.   The child of such individual or the spouse of such child.
         (e)   Goods or services which are provided to the town and facilitate
governmental action or functions;
         (f)   A certificate, plaque or other ceremonial award;
         (g)   Printed or recorded informational material germane to
governmental action or functions;
         (h)   An honorary degree bestowed upon a public official or public
employee by a public or private university or college;
         (i)   A meal provided at an event and/or the registration or entrance
fee to attend such an event, in which the public employee or public official
participates in his or her official capacity;
         (j)   A meal provided in the home of an individual; and
         (k)   Gift-giving occasions, generally recognized by the public,
including Christmas, Hanukkah, birthdays, the birth or adoption of a child,
weddings, First Communions, confirmations or bar/bat mitzvahs, provided the
total value of such gifts for each person for each event shall not exceed $25
per calendar year.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Spouse, parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, stepchild,
sibling, stepsibling, all in-laws and/or any individual who has a family-like
relationship and/or who resides in the household.
   ON THE RECORD. A writing, signed and dated, or a directive to the recording
secretary of a meeting to note in the minutes a particular statement.
   PERSONAL BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest, other than financial, which
would affect the action of the official or employee. Membership in or
affiliation with a social, fraternal, charitable, service, education,
religious, governmental or similar non-profit organization is not deemed to
automatically create a personal interest.
   TOWN OFFICIAL, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. An individual whether elected or
appointed, whether paid or unpaid, full or part time, including members and
employees of any agency of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)
§ 35.18 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   A person governed by this Code shall not engage in or participate
in any business or transaction, nor have an interest, direct or indirect, which
is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties in the
public interest, or would tend to impair his or her independent judgment or
action in the performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   A person governed by this Code shall not be financially interested
or have any personal beneficial interest, in any contract or purchase order for
any supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services furnished to or used
by the board, agency or commission of which he or she is a member, or of which
he or she is an employee. Notwithstanding the above, no member of the Board of
Selectmen and no member of the Board of Finance shall be financially
interested, or have any personal beneficial interest, either directly or
indirectly, in any contract or purchase order for any supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services furnished to or used by any board, agency or
commission of the town.
         (a)   A town official, officer or employee shall refrain from voting
upon or otherwise participating in any matter if he or she, or a member of his
or her immediate family, has a financial or personal interest in the
transaction or contract, including, but not limited to, the sale of real
estate, material, supplies or services to the municipality.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the prohibition in division (A)(2)(a) above, a
town official, officer or employee may vote or otherwise participate in a
matter if it involves a determination of general policy and the interest is
shared with a substantial segment of the population of the town.
      (3)   Any public official or public employee who has a conflict of
interest, direct or indirect, in any contract, transaction or decision within
the purview of his or her official responsibilities shall disclose that
conflict of interest. Such disclosure shall disqualify the public official or
public employee from participation or deliberation in the matter, transaction
or decision. Such disclosure shall be made in executive session of an agency at
the request of the public official or the public employee.
   (B)   Financial interest. A person governed by this Code who has a financial
or personal interest in any transaction or contract with the town, including,
but not limited to, the sale of real estate, materials, supplies or services to
the town, in which he or she may be called upon to act in his or her official
capacity shall not vote or otherwise participate in the transaction on behalf
of the town. That person shall declare on the record that he or she has a
conflict of interest that disqualifies him or her from participating and
voting.
   (C)   Town-owned property. A person governed by this Code shall not request
or permit the use of town-owned vehicles, equipment, facilities, material or
property for personal convenience or profit, except when such town property is
available to the general public as a result of a policy adopted in the interest
of the town.
   (D)   Appearance of impropriety.
      (1)   No public official or public employee shall accept a gift or engage
in private employment or render services when the gift, employment or services:
         (a)   Are incompatible with the proper discharge of the official
duties of the public official or public employee; or
         (b)   Could tend to impair independence of judgment or action by the
public official or public employee, in the performance of his or her official
duties.
      (2)   To avoid even the appearance of impropriety or creation of a
situation that would be contrary to the declared policy and purpose of the
Code, a public official or public employee, not otherwise restrained by the
code, shall exercise care when appearing before other agencies and shall
disclose whether he or she is appearing in his or her official capacity or as a
private citizen.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Automatic sprinkler systems
   
50.02   Well and sanitation permits
Water and Sewer Commission
   
50.15   Ordinance designating Board of Water Commissioners as sewer authority
   
50.16   Established
   
50.17   Duties and responsibilities
   
50.18   Income
   
50.19   Effect
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any automatic lawn sprinkler system making use of water provided by or
through the town municipal water system shall be equipped with a rain sensor
device or switch that will automatically override the irrigation cycle of such
sprinkler system when adequate rainfall has occurred.
   (B)   The Town Director of Public Works shall determine the method by which
an appropriate level of “adequate rainfall” will be measured and the method by
which the automatic lawn sprinkler system will be deactivated by the rain
sensor device or switch. In making such determinations, the Director of Public
Works may be guided but not controlled by the specifications of manufacturers
of said automatic lawn sprinkler systems.
   (C)   Any person who uses water from a faucet or spigot which is not
connected to the municipal water system may apply to the Water and Sewer
Commission for a certificate evidencing such fact and, upon inquiry from any
person charged with the enforcement of such section, shall make such
certificate available to the enforcement officer.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply to any automatic lawn
sprinkler system installed on or after the effective date of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004) Penalty, see § 50.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 388
§ 50.02 WELL AND SANITATION PERMITS.
   (A)   No well or sewage disposal system shall be constructed within the town
until a written permit has been obtained from the Director of Health or his or
her duly authorized agent.
   (B)   (1)   No building permit for the construction of any building or any
addition thereto shall be issued by the Building Official, or such other
officer as may be authorized to issue building permits, until there has been
presented to such officer a written certificate, signed by the Director of
Health or his or her duly authorized agent, indicating that the well or other
water supply facilities and the sewage disposal facilities, located on the land
on which said building or addition are to be constructed, are satisfactory.
      (2)   Reasonable fees for such permits and certificates, and for dumping
of septic tank wastes at the site authorized by the Board of Selectmen, shall
be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 8
WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION
§ 50.15 ORDINANCE DESIGNATING BOARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS AS SEWER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is constituted a nine member Water and Sewer Commission. The
First Selectman shall be Chairperson, and upon his or her absence or disability
the Deputy First Selectman shall have the powers and perform the duties of the
absent or disabled Chairperson, which shall include presiding at meetings of
the Commission and having the right to vote at such meetings.
   (B)   The remaining eight members shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen in the manner set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) below.
      (1)   The remaining six members of the Board of Water Commissioners on
the effective date of this subchapter shall continue to be members of the
Commission and shall serve the terms for which they were appointed.
      (2)   One member shall be appointed for a term to expire on the first
Monday of January, 1978.
      (3)   One member shall be appointed for a term to expire on the first
Monday of January, 1980.
      (4)   Upon expiration of the terms established by divisions (B)(2) and
(B)(3) above, the terms of appointment shall be for four years.
      (5)   The members shall serve without compensation but shall be
reimbursed for necessary expenses.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14, page
77, Amended
§ 50.16 ESTABLISHED.
   Said Commission shall maintain and operate the water system of the town,
obtain plans and cost estimates for extensions and improvements to the system,
expend such funds as may be appropriated for such purposes, provide all
necessary rules and regulations in connection with the operation of the system,
prescribe the rates at which water may be sold, perform all the duties
incidental thereto, and present an annual report and budget before each annual
budget meeting of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14, page
77, Amended
§ 50.17 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Commission as the sewer authority of the town shall have all the powers,
authority and duties set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 103, Revision of
1958, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14, page
77, Amended
§ 50.18 INCOME.
   All income derived from service provided by the water system shall be paid
to the Treasurer of the town to be credited to the account of the Commission
and to be first applied to defray the current expenses of said water system.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14, page
77, Amended
§ 50.19 EFFECT.
   The adoption of this subchapter shall not be construed to affect the powers,
authority and duties of the Town Board of Water Commissioners which shall
hereafter, pursuant to this amendment, be known as the Water and Sewer
Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14, page
77, Amended
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
Regulating the Storage, Collection and Disposal of Solid Waste
   
51.01   Declaration of policy
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   License required for refuse collections
   
51.04   Refuse containers
   
51.05   Requirements for collection
   
51.06   Collection on private roads or in locations other than town approved
roads
   
51.07   Storing of refuse
   
51.08   Bulky waste
   
51.09   Disposal of refuse
   
51.10   Source separation and recycling
   
51.11   Licensing of refuse collectors; registration of vehicles
   
51.12   Refusal, revocation or suspension of license
   
51.13   Licensing private individuals to dispose of their own refuse
   
51.14   Administration; promulgation of rules and regulations
   
51.15   Refuse collector’s responsibilities and obligations
   
51.16   Recycling- regulations concerning designation of recyclable materials
   
51.17   Fees for disposal of waste at the transfer station
Sanitary Landfill Tract
   
51.25   Definitions
   
51.26   Entry restricted
   
51.27   Restrictions on motor vehicles
   
51.28   Regulations of motor vehicles
   
51.29   Towing of motor vehicles
Recycling
   
51.40   Regulations concerning designation of recyclable materials
Fees
   
51.55   Reserved
   
51.56   Fee for refuse collectors
 
   
51.99   Penalty
REGULATING THE STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 51.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The accumulation, collection, removal and disposal of refuse must be
controlled by the town for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (B)   It is consequently found and declared that:
      (1)   The town is authorized by law to provide for or regulate the
collection and disposal of refuse;
      (2)   The State of Connecticut requires towns to recycle. Items that are
designated (i.e. mandated) for recycling are included in §
51.16.
      (3)   The town has a substantial interest in and responsibility for
protecting the health and safety of its inhabitants by regulating the
collection and disposal of such refuse;
      (4)   The expense of such regulation is substantial and can best be
borne, in the case of commercial, industrial and condominium owners, by those
owners and by the refuse collectors who service them; and
      (5)   The enactment of this subchapter is in furtherance of the town’s
approved solid waste management plan.
      (6)   The town has executed a municipal solid waste management services
contract with Southeastern Connecticut Regional Resources Recovery Authority
(SCRRRA), including an Amendment No. 5 to such municipal solid waste management
services contract (collectively with such Amendment No. 5, the MSA). The MSA
defines the “System” (the SCRRRA System) to include the solid waste disposal
and resource recovery facility located in Lisbon, Connecticut and operated by
Wheelabrator Lisbon Inc. or its successors or assigns (the SCRRRA Facility)
pursuant to a solid waste disposal agreement between SCRRRA and Wheelabrator
Lisbon Inc. (the Wheelabrator agreement), and designates the SCRRRA Facility as
the “Facility” within the SCRRRA System. Pursuant to the MSA, the town has
agreed to deliver or cause to be delivered all solid waste (as defined in the
MSA) generated within the corporate boundaries of the town to the SCRRRA System
as directed by SCRRRA for ultimate delivery to the SCRRRA Facility for
disposal, subject to and in accordance with the Wheelabrator agreement.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 6-3-2020; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTES. Noncombustible construction debris, and oversized bulky items
which can’t fit into a regular town size trash receptacle with the lid closed.
   COMMERCIAL FOOD REFUSE. Includes waste from the preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, condemned food products and all refuse from the handling,
storage, preparation and sale of produce originating primarily in commercial
kitchens, stores, restaurants, food markets and factories.
   DEPARTMENT. The East Lyme Highway and Sanitation Department.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Solid and liquid wastes in the following classifications:
      (1)   Explosives;
      (2)   Pathogenic or pathological wastes;
      (3)   Corrosive or toxic wastes;
      (4)   Radioactive wastes; and
      (5)   Medical wastes.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials which have been so designated by the
Director or by a regulation of the Board of Selectmen.
   REFUSE. Unwanted and discarded solid materials, but does not include:
      (1)   Liquid wastes including, but not limited to, semisolid, liquid
materials collected in a municipal sewage system or a septic system;
      (2)   Bulky wastes;
      (3)   Household hazardous wastes;
      (4)   Any other material which may not be lawfully disposed of (in a
sanitary landfill or a resources recovery facility; or
      (5)   Recyclable materials.
   REFUSE COLLECTORS. Includes any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of collecting and transporting refuse, including recyclable materials,
for hire within the town.
   TOWN. The Town of East Lyme.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR REFUSE COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the town or by persons licensed by the town in accordance with §
51.11 to perform such work.
   (B)   No other person shall collect, convey over any street or dispose of
any refuse in the town, except that occupants of premises in the town upon
which refuse has accumulated may personally collect, convey and dispose of such
refuse at such place or places as the Board of Selectmen or the Director may
from time to time designate, subject to the obtaining of a private permit in
accordance with §
51.11. No refuse which was not generated within the town shall be disposed of
in any such place.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.04 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Provision for containers. Only cans provided by the Department will be
picked up as part of town curbside garbage and recycling collection. The town
started collection with trucks with automated arms back in the early 2000's. At
that time, all residents were required to purchase a garbage can and the town
provided a recycling can free of charge. Those original cans are now beyond
their warranty. It is the responsibility of the property owner to keep their
cans in acceptable condition. Unless the Department damages the can and/or
drops it into the hopper of the truck, the resident or business shall be
responsible for the cost of replacing a damaged can. If a resident and/or
business desires to replace a damaged can, one has gone missing, or wants an
additional can, they must request one from the Department and pay the going
rate for the can at that time. The Department may put a limitation on the
number of garbage and recycling cans that each business or residence may have
as part of the curbside collection.
   (B)   Stolen cans. The Department is not responsible if a can is stolen. All
cans have a serial number in white letters on the front of the can, so it is
the responsibility of the property owner to keep track of the serial number to
better track their cans.
   (C)   Containers for commercial food refuse. Commercial food refuse
containers may be large-covered containers designed to be mechanically emptied
into a refuse truck where collection is to be by a refuse collector.
   (D)   Loose materials. The town shall not be obligated to collect any loose
materials as part of its curbside collection service.
   (E)   Containers not conforming to the above requirements. Containers not
conforming to the above requirements, or which may be a travel or health hazard
or nuisance will not be emptied.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Timing to place cans out and take them in. The property owner shall
see that the cans are placed at the side of the nearest public road, or in the
case of privately-owned property where the town by agreement makes collections,
at the side of a private road or driveway designated by the Director, not
earlier than 12 hours before the scheduled time of collection for said road or
driveway nor later than 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled collection day. The
collection schedule will be posted on the town’s website. The cans shall be
placed in such a manner that they do not constitute a travel or health hazard
or nuisance, and after the cans have been emptied, they shall be removed from
the side of said road or driveway within 12 hours after the material therein
has been collected. If the cans are not out at the time the truck passes the
property, the Department can’t guarantee that the truck can come back until the
next regularly scheduled visit. Residents can bring their garbage and recycling
to the town’s transfer station free of charge during the transfer station’s
regular hours.
   (B)   Recycling materials collected. Only approved recycling materials can
go in the recycling cans. A listing of what is allowed in the recycling can is
on the Public Works section of the town website.
   (C)   Can inspections. The Department inspects garbage and recycling cans on
a regular basis. If non-recycling materials are found in the recycling can and/
or yard waste or bulky items are overflowing from a garbage can, the can will
be flagged to not be picked up and a form will be taped to the can advising the
property owner why the can has not been picked up. The offending items must be
removed before the can will be picked up.
   (D)   Spacing of cans. All cans must be placed approximately four feet from
any other object (another can, a car, utility pole, wall, etc.), as the
automated arms of the garbage trucks need clearance to pick up the can. If the
driver can’t pick up the can for this reason, the Department can’t guarantee
that the truck can come back until the next regularly scheduled visit.
   (E)   All refuse collected or transported within the town shall be carried
in tightly-covered vehicles, or in tightly-covered containers in or on such
vehicles. Any refuse which is collected or transported in open top vehicles
shall be suitably covered so as to prevent scattering litter upon the streets.
All vehicles used for the collection or transportation of refuse within the
town shall be subject to the approval of the Director or the Board of
Selectmen.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.06 COLLECTION ON PRIVATE ROADS OR IN LOCATIONS OTHER THAN TOWN APPROVED
ROADS.
   (A)   Agreement. If the Department has been performing curbside collection
on a private road or in locations other than on town approved roads, then it
will continue collecting in these locations provided the Department has
received a signed agreement including the following;
      (1)   The owner of the private road and/or property has given written
permission for the town to enter onto that private property;
      (2)   If there are ever any changes to the ownership of the private road
or property, it is the responsibility of the current owner to let the town know
in writing;
      (3)   Any particular requirements for that specific location;
      (4)   To indemnify and hold the town harmless against any and all damages
to property or injuries to or death of any person or persons, including
property and employees or agents of the town and defend suits, actions or
proceedings of any kind or nature and indemnify and save harmless the town from
and against any and all damages to property or injuries to or death of any
person or persons, including property and employees of the town, and shall
defend, indemnify and save harmless the town from and against any and all
claims, demands, suits, actions or proceedings of any kind or nature or by
anyone whomsoever in any case resulting from or arising out of acts or
omissions of the owner of the private road and/or property or its agents,
employees or subcontractors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the owner of the
private road and/or property shall not be required to indemnify and save
harmless the Town of East Lyme from and against damages to property or injuries
to persons arising out of the negligence or willful misconduct of the town or
their employees or agents; and
      (5)   To upkeep all the paved areas including plowing and de-icing all
the roads and trimming trees that stretch into the paved area when needed.
Since the owner is responsible for maintenance of the private road or property,
if the Department determines that the roads are not passable, it may refuse to
pick up the garbage and/or recycling until the hazard is addressed. This
includes a determination that the private road and/or property has not been
properly plowed and/or salted, or there are potholes or any other road
deficiencies.
   (B)   Road surface. There must be an acceptable surface course of asphalt on
the private road or property.
   (C)   Ability to turnaround.  The Department needs an acceptable area to
turn their trucks around. Determination of an acceptable area to turn their
trucks around will be made by the Department.
   (D)   Not expanding this service.  The town has no intention of expanding
its curbside collection service on private roads and/or private developments
that it has been collecting for up to this point.
   (E)   New private roads and developments. All new private roads and/or
private developments failing to meet town road standards as determined by the
Town of East Lyme need to provide a private contractor to address their garbage
and recycling needs.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
§ 51.07 STORING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley
or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned by such
person or not, within the town, except in proper containers or otherwise
properly prepared for collection or under express approval granted by the
Director. No person shall throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or other
body of water.
   (B)   Accumulation of refuse. Any uncontained accumulation of refuse on any
premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to
remove any uncontained accumulation of refuse within two days after written
notice to remove same shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the town any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or
deposited by the elements upon or in any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer,
parkway or other public place, or into any occupied premises. This includes
dump trucks that have accidentally dropped construction or other materials from
the bed of the truck. If this occurs, it is the responsibility of the person
who dropped the debris to clean it up or pay for the clean up.
   (D)   Hazardous wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to place hazardous wastes or similarly dangerous substances into
any refuse container other than one specifically designated for such a purpose.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.08 BULKY WASTE.
   Bulky waste may not be collected or mixed with refuse and shall be collected
and transported as the Board of Selectmen or the Director may from time to time
designate, and any applicable charge for disposal at an approved location with
the town shall be paid by the person delivering the waste.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.09 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Each refuse collector who disposes of refuse collected within the town
at the designated Southeastern Connecticut Regional Resource Recovery Authority
Facility (the SCRRRA Facility) shall, except as provided in division (B) below,
pay the town promptly when billed a per-ton fee to be set by the Board of
Selectmen from time to time.
   (B)   The town may, from time to time, in accordance with procedures set by
the Board of Selectmen or the Director, offer for sale to licensed refuse
collectors the right to dispose of refuse collected within the town at the
SCRRRA Facility at a price and on terms set by the Board of Selectmen.
   (C)   All refuse generated in the town shall be delivered or caused to be
delivered to the SCRRRA System for so long as the MSA remains in effect, as
directed by SCRRRA and for ultimate delivery to the SCRRRA Facility. To the
extent any such refuse is not acceptable for disposal at the SCRRRA Facility,
such unacceptable refuse shall be delivered or caused to be delivered to such
other facility designated by SCRRRA. After the MSA is no longer in effect, the
Board of Selectmen shall designate the facility for the delivery of refuse
generated in the town. The person delivering refuse to the SCRRRA Facility or
other designated place shall pay any applicable disposal charge. All
regulations of the town and any direction or designation by the Board of
Selectmen or the Director about the disposal of refuse generated in the town
shall be consistent with this division.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 6-3-2020; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.10 SOURCE SEPARATION AND RECYCLING.
   (A)   Separation of materials; collection. Recyclable materials for which
collection service is provided by the town shall be separated from solid waste
and placed at the curb or other designated collection place for collection on
the days designated by the Director. Recyclable materials for which collection
service is not provided by the town shall be separated from solid waste and
disposed of at an appropriate facility.
   (B)   Separation at dumpsters. Multi-family dwelling units and each
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential entity not utilizing curbside
collection shall provide, or shall require its refuse collector to provide
separate dumpsters or other collection containers for refuse and for all
recyclable material accumulated on the premises. Containers shall be placed
immediately adjacent to each other and labeled as to the material intended for
each with stenciling in a prominent location.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.11 LICENSING OF REFUSE COLLECTORS; REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Licensing authority designated. The Director shall be the licensing
authority for refuse collectors, and the registering authority for vehicles and
containers. The Director shall grant a license within a reasonable time
following the filing of proper application and payment of the prescribed fee
unless the Director finds one or more of the following conditions to prevail:
      (1)   The applicant has been irresponsible in the conduct of refuse
collection and hauling operations within the town;
      (2)   The applicant lacks suitable equipment with which to collect refuse
in a safe and nuisance-free manner and in compliance with this subchapter; and/
or
      (3)   The applicant or the refuse collector to which it is the successor
was previously licensed and its license was revoked in accordance with this
subchapter.
    (B)   License required. Each refuse collector shall annually, on or before
July 1, apply for a license from the Director on such form as the Director
shall prescribe to engage in the business of refuse collection in the town.
   (C)   Registration of vehicles, containers. Each licensed refuse collector
shall obtain a separate registration for each vehicle it operates within the
town. When a vehicle is employed to transport more than one container, each
container to be transported shall require a registration. Registrations shall
not be transferable from vehicle to vehicle nor container to container;
however, the Director may allow such temporary transfer of registrations in
hardship situations, such as a temporary breakdown of an individually
registered vehicle.
   (D)   License term; fee; renewal. All licenses shall be issued for a term
not to exceed one year and shall be renewable on or before July 1 of each year.
The license fee shall be established by the Board of Selectmen by regulation
from time to time.
   (E)   Display of license. The license issued shall be conspicuously
displayed on the left front of the body of each vehicle or container so
licensed, or as may be directed.
   (F)   Identification of vehicles and containers. Each licensee shall
prominently display at all times on each registered vehicle or container in
letters at least four inches in height its name, license number and telephone
number.
   (G)   Licenses nontransferable. Licenses are not transferable. When any
licensee shall sell, transfer, all or part of its route to any refuse collector
not licensed in the town, it shall, at least seven days before the date of sale
or transfer, notify the Director, in writing, of its intent to sell and the
transferee shall, at the same time, make application for a license to operate
in the town.
   (H)   Routes serviced. As a prerequisite to the issuance or renewal of any
license, the refuse collector must furnish to the Director the following:
      (1)   A complete list of all stops, container size and frequency of
collection;
      (2)   Certificate of insurance; and
      (3)   The current fee as designated by the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.12 REFUSAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   General. Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or
any regulation or directive issued by the Board of Selectmen or the Director
pursuant to this subchapter or any such regulation shall be a grounds for
refusal, revocation or suspension of a license in addition to any other penalty
imposed by this subchapter or any other law.
   (B)   Notice required. Refusal, revocation or suspension shall only become
effective five calendar days after receipt of written notice from the Director.
   (C)   Request for review; filing; effect of failure to file. If a refuse
collector objects to the Director’s action described in division (B) above to
refuse, revoke or suspend its license, it may within five calendar days of
receipt of said notice, file a written request for review with the First
Selectman. Failure to timely file such request for review shall make the
Director’s action final and binding upon the collector.
   (D)   Request for review; effect of timely filing. Timely filing of such
request for review shall operate as an automatic stay of the Director’s action.
   (E)   Special Appeals Board; hearing. The First Selectman shall appoint
forthwith a Special Appeals Board consisting of two electors of the town and
two licensed refuse collectors and a member of the Board of Selectmen, and said
Board shall then within 15 days hear and decide the matter. Such hearing shall
be private except, however, that such hearing may be public if so requested, in
writing, by the refuse collector. The decision of said Board shall be final and
binding upon the collector.
   (F)   Names, addresses of customers to be furnished upon revocation or
suspension. Whenever a collector’s license is refused, revoked or suspended, it
shall furnish the Director within 24 hours the names and addresses of its
customers.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.13 LICENSING PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS TO DISPOSE OF THEIR OWN REFUSE.
   Occupants of premises in the town must apply to the Director for a permit,
to be able to dispose of refuse accumulated on such premises. A permit may be
obtained from the Director by applying on such form as the Director shall
prescribe. The permit shall be displayed in such manner as the Director shall
prescribe. Such permit may be revoked or suspended for the reasons and in the
manner prescribed for commercial licenses, and appeals therefrom may be taken
in the same manner.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.14 ADMINISTRATION; PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Director responsible. The Director shall administer the licensing of
any refuse collector engaged in the collecting and transporting of refuse in
the town.
   (B)   Insurance. The Director shall, when considering an application for a
refuse collector license, including renewal, ascertain that the applicant has
adequate liability insurance.
   (C)   Additional rules. The Board of Selectmen may promulgate regulations
and the Director may promulgate additional rules on all collection and disposal
procedures from time to time as are deemed proper, but such rules shall not be
inconsistent with this subchapter.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.15 REFUSE COLLECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Charges. Each refuse collector shall pay all charges imposed by §
51.09, all charges for disposal rights awarded to the refuse collector or
assigned to the refuse collector pursuant to this subchapter or regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, and the license fee imposed by §
51.11, and shall comply with all other requirements of this subchapter and such
regulations.
   (B)   Recyclable materials. Each refuse collector shall collect recyclable
materials from each of its customers in the manner specified in this
subchapter. Any refuse collector who has reason to believe that a person from
whom it collects solid waste has discarded recyclable material with such solid
waste in violation of this subchapter shall promptly notify the Director of the
alleged violation. Upon the request of the Director, a collector shall provide
a warning notice, by tag or other means, to any person suspected by the
collector or the Director of violating separation requirements. A collector
shall also assist the town to identify any person responsible for creating
loads containing significant quantities of recyclable materials mixed with
solid waste.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance of vehicles and containers. All vehicles
registered to collect and transport refuse shall be maintained free of
obnoxious odors and accumulated refuse. Any such vehicle shall be of a closed
construction. A container utilized primarily for non-liquid refuse need not be
of watertight construction, but shall be completely enclosed.
   (D)   Delinquent customers. A refuse collector may refuse to provide
collection service to any customer who is more than 30 days delinquent in the
payment of the refuse collector’s fee. If the delinquent customer shall
discharge its delinquency, the refuse collector shall immediately restore
collection services to the customer.
   (E)   Responsibility to provide service; refusal to provide. Refuse
collectors are hereby made jointly responsible for providing collection service
to any resident of the town. If any commercial, industrial or condominium
customer of the town shall be refused collection services without reasonable
grounds or is dissatisfied with collection service, the customer may make
application to the Director, who shall have the right to direct said collector
to provide service or who shall have the right to designate another licensed
refuse collector to provide refuse collection service and the collector so
selected shall comply with the Director’s designation. In making such
designation, the Director shall give primary consideration to those collectors
who service customers in the same or a contiguous locality.
   (F)   Designation of collector to provide service. In the event refuse
collection service is not provided, the Director shall designate a licensed
refuse collector or collectors to provide refuse collection service in the
geographical area affected, and such collector or collectors shall comply with
the Director’s designation.
   (G)   Customers’ containers. Refuse collectors shall leave their customers’
containers in a neat, upright position and off the road.
   (H)   Spilled refuse. Refuse collectors shall clean up refuse that may have
spilled when carrying or transferring refuse.
   (I)   List of rates. Each refuse collector shall furnish to its customers,
upon request, a list of rates for the various services provided.
(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997;
Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
§ 51.16 RECYCLING - REGULATIONS CONCERNING DESIGNATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the §§
51.01 through
51.14, the following regulations are enacted by the Board of Selectmen, to
become effective on publication.
   (B)   The following materials are designated as recyclable materials, which
shall be separated from solid waste and shall be set out for collection or
delivered to a collection point as provided by the these regulations:
      (1)   Cardboard;
      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;
      (3)   Leaves and other yard waste;
      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;
      (5)   Newspaper and magazines;
      (6)   Office paper;
      (7)   Scrap metal;
      (8)   Storage batteries; and
      (9)   Waste oil.
   (C)   The above terms shall have the meanings given them in the Connecticut
Regulations of State Agencies, § 22a-241b-1.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Editor's note:
   TM Volume 17, page 396
§ 51.17 FEES FOR DISPOSAL OF WASTE AT THE TRANSFER STATION.
   The Board of Selectmen is the governing body that sets the fee schedule at
the town's Transfer Station on Roxbury Road. The Board of Selectman can update
that schedule at any time by a majority vote. The schedule of fees as of the
effective date of the current version of this subchapter is posted at the
Roxbury Road Transfer Station and on the Public Works section of the town
website.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2022; Ord. passed 4-16-2025)
Editor's note:
   TM Volume 16, page 265; TM Volume 20, page 237 (#3); TM Volume 20, page 239
(#7);
    TM Volume 20, page 240 (#8); TM Volume 21, page 101 (#9); TM Volume 21,
page 157;
    TM Volume 22, page 79; TM Volume 22, page 248; TM Volume 22, page 261
SANITARY LANDFILL TRACT
§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   QUARRY AREA. The portion of the sanitary landfill tract lying west of a line
running north and south and passing through the gate on the old quarry road.
The QUARRY AREA contains the quarry and the standpipe water reservoir.
   SANITARY LANDFILL TRACT. The entire tract of land owned by the town and
lying north of Roxbury Road and west of Riverview Road, and includes all
portions of that tract whether or not actually used as part of the sanitary
landfill operation, and the area around the standpipe water reservoir.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
§ 51.26 ENTRY RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person except one of the following may go into the sanitary
landfill tract for any purpose:
      (1)   A resident or taxpayer of the town;
      (2)   A guest or member of the immediate family of a resident or taxpayer
of the town;
      (3)   A town, state or federal official engaged in government business;
      (4)   A person engaged in business with or for the town; or
      (5)   A person engaged in a business which involves disposing of solid
waste originating in the town.
   (B)   No person except one of the following may go into the quarry area for
any purpose:
      (1)   A town, state or federal official engaged in government business;
      (2)   A person engaged in business with or for the town; or
      (3)   A person engaged in a business which involves disposing of septic
tank waste originating within the town.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
§ 51.27 RESTRICTIONS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for town, state or federal motor vehicles or motor vehicles of
persons engaged in business with or for the town, or motor vehicles of persons
engaged in a business which involves disposing of solid waste originating
within the town, no motor vehicle may be brought into, operated in or parked in
the sanitary landfill tract unless such vehicle is registered in the name of a
natural person who is a resident or taxpayer of the town, and unless such motor
vehicle carries a clearly displayed marker or identification issued in
accordance with regulations to be adopted by the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see §
51.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
§ 51.28 REGULATIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle which is authorized under §
51.27 to be brought into and parked in the sanitary landfill tract shall be
operated and parked only in accordance with regulations to be adopted by the
Board of Selectmen, and shall be removed prior to the daily closing of the
tract.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
§ 51.29 TOWING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   In order to eliminate congestion, permit orderly conduct of the sanitary
landfill operation and furnish security to the equipment and fixtures of the
town located in the sanitary landfill tract, the town constables and the state
police are authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed or towed away by
any commercial towing service, any motor vehicle which is brought into,
operated in or parked in the sanitary landfill tract in violation of this
subchapter and regulations to be adopted by the Board of Selectmen. Motor
vehicles so towed away shall be stored at the expense of the owner and may be
claimed by the owner upon payment of storage and towing fees as determined by
the Board of Selectmen by regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
RECYCLING
§ 51.40 REGULATIONS CONCERNING DESIGNATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the §§
51.01 through
51.14, the following regulations are enacted by the Board of Selectmen, to
become effective on publication.
   (B)   The following materials are designated as recyclable materials, which
shall be separated from solid waste and shall be set out for collection or
delivered to a collection point as provided by the these regulations:
      (1)   Cardboard;
      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;
      (3)   Leaves and other yard waste;
      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;
      (5)   Newspaper and magazines;
      (6)   Office paper;
      (7)   Scrap metal;
      (8)   Storage batteries; and
      (9)   Waste oil.
   (B)   The above terms shall have the meanings given them in the Connecticut
Regulations of State Agencies, § 22a-241b-1.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1990)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 17, page 396
FEES
§ 51.55 RESERVED.
§ 51.56 FEE FOR REFUSE COLLECTORS.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of Selectmen, the following
registration fee for refuse collectors is established: $75 per year.
(Ord. passed 11-21-1988)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 266
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any generator of refuse who violates the terms of §§
51.01 through
51.16 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense, in addition to any
other penalty imposable hereunder. Refuse placed out for collection not in
accordance with §§
51.01 through
51.16 and regulations adopted pursuant thereto may not be collected in the
discretion of the Director or the Board of Selectmen.
   (C)   Any refuse collector who collects refuse in the town without the
license required by §
51.09, or who knowingly mixes refuse with recyclable materials, or who
otherwise violates §§
51.01 through
51.16 or any regulation or directive issued by the Board of Selectmen or the
Director pursuant to §§
51.01 through
51.16 or any such regulation, shall be fined not more than $100 for each such
offense.
   (D)   Each violation shall be a separate and distinct offense and, in the
case of a continuing violation, each day’s continuance thereof shall be deemed
to be a separate and distinct offense. In addition, the Director is authorized
to apply to a Judge of the Superior Court for a temporary and permanent
injunction against a continuing or repeated violation of §§
51.01 through
51.16.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, the town shall have the right to
bring a civil action to recover any amounts due to the town from any refuse
collector for violation of §§
51.01 through
51.16 or any regulation or directive issued by the Board of Selectmen or the
Director pursuant to §§
51.01 through
51.16 or any such regulation, or for amounts due from any refuse collector who
purchased from the town the right to dispose of refuse or who took an
assignment of any such right, together with interest and attorney’s fees as
permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975; Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord.
passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed
9-7-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142
   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page 425; TM
Volume 21, page 485
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Authorization of the town to construct a water system
   
52.02   Agreements with the town for water service
   
52.03   Water emergency conservation
   
52.04   Water connection charges
   
52.05   Water assessments
   
52.06   Water benefit charges
Water Rates and Charges Generally
   
52.20   Water rates generally
   
52.21   Various water charges
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 AUTHORIZATION OF THE TOWN TO CONSTRUCT A WATER SYSTEM.
   The provision of House Bill No. 863 as passed by the General Assembly of
1941, authorizing the town to construct a water system, is adopted.
(Res. passed 10-6-1941)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 5, page 327
§ 52.02 AGREEMENTS WITH THE TOWN FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   To permit owners of real property, which property abuts on existing
water lines belonging to said town, to connect with and draw water from said
lines; provided, however, that each such property owner, applying for such
permission, shall enter into an agreement with said town, which agreement shall
provide, in addition to such other provisions as the Selectmen may deem
necessary, the following:
      (1)   Said property owner shall pay all charges incurred in connecting
with said water line and a reasonable amount for the water used by said
property owner;
      (2)   Said town shall be relieved of all and any liability or obligation
in the event of the failure by said town to furnish water;
      (3)   Said town may terminate said agreement to furnish water upon 30
days’ written notice; and
      (4)   Any authority granted by said Selectmen and all agreements entered
into by said Board of Selectmen shall terminate at such time as the said town
by ordinance, or otherwise, shall establish a Board of Water Commissioners.
   (B)   The Crescent Beach Association be considered an individual and allowed
to connect with the water system for fire hydrants for fire protection only.
   (C)   The Auditor shall make an annual report of the income and expenditures
in connection with said water system and that said report shall include the
name of each property owner attached to said water line and the amount paid by
each property owner attached thereto.
(Res. passed 3-5-1945)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 8
§ 52.03 WATER EMERGENCY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Commission shall monitor the town’s available
water supplies to ensure that a flow of water is provided which will be
adequate to:
      (1)   Meet the health and sanitation requirements of those residents of
the town who are supplied by water from the town’s water system;
      (2)   Provide sufficient firefighting capacity; and
      (3)   Provide a reserve sufficient to meet the foregoing requirements and
meet such emergencies and contingencies as may exist from time to time.
   (B)   If the Water and Sewer Commission determines that the amount of
available water supplies is below an amount sufficient to meet the requirements
of division (A) above, or that weather and hydrological conditions are such
that their continued existence threatens to reduce the amount of available
water supplies below an amount sufficient to meet the requirements of division
(A) above, it may request the Board of Selectmen to declare a water supply
emergency.
   (C)   The Board of Selectmen may, after notice and a public hearing, declare
that a water supply emergency exists and may impose any of the water
conservation measures and restrictions set out in division (D) below. Such
restrictions and measures shall be subject to the exceptions set out in
division (G) below. Notice of the public hearing shall be by publication of the
request for a water supply emergency and the possible conservation measures and
restrictions and the time and place of the hearing in a newspaper having a
general circulation in the town at least three days before the date of such
hearing.
   (D)   Upon a declaration by the Board of Selectmen that a water supply
emergency exists, it may impose the following water conservation restrictions,
in such combinations and at such times of the day or year as it deems necessary
or desirable, regarding the use of water from the town’s water system:
      (1)   Prohibiting the sprinkling, watering or irrigation of lawns,
gardens, plants, vines, vegetables, flowers or any other vegetation;
      (2)   Prohibiting the washing of motor vehicles, boats or trailers;
      (3)   Prohibiting the filling or cleaning of swimming and wading pools;
      (4)   Prohibiting the cleaning of outdoor surfaces of all buildings or
structures, sidewalks, driveways and other outdoor surfaces;
      (5)   Prohibiting the service of water to customers of public restaurants
except at the specific request of such customers;
      (6)   Prohibiting the use of outdoor spigots or faucets or connections
for any purpose whatsoever;
      (7)   Imposing a “drought surcharge” at a flat rate for any water used in
excess of amounts specified by the Board of Selectmen;
      (8)   Requiring a reduction in the amount of water used by all residents
and businesses connected to the town’s water system, and imposing a “drought
surcharge” at a flat rate for any water used in excess of the reduced amount
specified by the Board of Selectmen;
      (9)   Prohibiting the use of water for business and industrial purposes
in excess of an amount specified by the Board of Selectmen, except that
businesses concerned with public health and welfare and food service or
manufacture may, upon approval of the town’s Director of Health, continue to
use an amount of water necessary to meet the ordinary requirements of such
businesses; and
      (10)   Rationing of water by reducing its supply to individual
residential or business structures.
   (E)   (1)   Notice of the restrictions imposed by the Board of Selectmen
shall be published in a newspaper having a general circulation in the town at
least three days before the effective date of such restrictions, and may be
promulgated by such other means as the Board of Selectmen deems desirable.
      (2)   Weekends in July and August, no residential outside water use from
Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, no washing cars, boats, house, watering
lawns and the like.
   (F)   If at any time after the imposing of restrictions the Board of
Selectmen deems it necessary to impose restrictions in addition to those
previously imposed, it may do so after a public hearing noticed in accordance
with the provisions of division (C) above. Any additional restrictions adopted
by the Board of Selectmen shall be published in accordance with the provisions
of division (E) above and may be promulgated by such other means as the Board
of Selectmen deems desirable.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The restrictions set forth in division (D) above shall not
apply to any use of water necessary to maintain an adequate level of health or
sanitation standards, as determined by the town’s Director of Health, for any
persons using water from the town’s system. Any of such persons who consider
that the restrictions imposed upon them adversely affect their health or
sanitation may make application for a certificate of exemption from the town’s
Director of Health.
         (b)   The Director of Health, after considering the circumstances of
such persons and applying the standards necessary for the preservation of
public health, may issue a certificate of exemption from the restrictions set
forth in this section and shall notify the Water and Sewer Commission of any
such exemptions.
      (2)   The restrictions set forth in division (D) above shall not apply to
any firefighting or civil defense emergency.
   (H)   Any person who uses water during a water supply emergency from an
outdoor faucet or spigot which is not connected to the town’s water system may
apply to the Water and Sewer Commission for a certificate evidencing such fact
and, upon inquiry from any person charged with the enforcement of such
regulations, shall make such certificate available to the enforcement officer.
   (I)   Upon a determination by the Water and Sewer Commission that the water
supplies available to the town’s water system are such that a water supply
emergency is no longer necessary or may be modified, it shall notify the Board
of Selectmen, which shall publish a notice of termination of the water supply
emergency or modifications of restrictions imposed, in a newspaper having a
substantial circulation within the town, and may promulgate such notice by
other means that it deems desirable.
   (J)   (1)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the taking of
any action which may be necessary to ensure the safe and secure operation of
the town’s water system in the interval between the occurrence of an event
giving rise to a water supply emergency and the imposition of any water
conservation measures or restrictions by the Board of Selectmen.
      (2)   The Water and Sewer Commission, or its Chairperson or the Director
of Utilities, shall take such action as may be necessary to ensure the safe and
secure operation of the town’s water system during such intervals.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1986; Ord. passed 6-18-2003; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)  Penalty,
see §
52.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 31
§ 52.04 WATER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   There are imposed connection charges upon the owners of property in
any extension area, as from time to time, has been or shall be created, when
such property owner requests that a connection of the water system be made to
his or her property line at the expense of the town.
   (B)   The connection charge shall be due and payable within 30 days from the
time that the property owner is billed by the Town Water Department.
   (C)   The rate of connection charges shall be as follows:
      (1)   For each such property containing not more than one single-family
dwelling requiring for adequate service a three fourths-inch pipe from the
main: the average cost, as determined from time to time by the Board of Water
Commissioners, of all direct and indirect expenses incurred by the town, or any
agency thereof, in making connections for properties of this class;
      (2)   For each such property not described in division (C)(1) above, the
actual costs incurred by the town, or any agency thereof, in making the
connection; and
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, there shall be imposed upon each such
property, an additional connection charge in an amount determined by the
foregoing schedule for each connection after the first connection to said
property.
   (D)   The Board of Water Commissioners shall determine the size pipe
required for adequate service based upon the volume of water likely to be used,
the pressure requirements and the nature of the use.
   (E)   From the time that any connection charge becomes due and payable, it
shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid. The connection
charge shall, at the time it becomes due and payable, become a lien upon the
property. Any such lien shall be liable to be foreclosed in the same manner as
if it were a mortgage on such land in favor of the town. The Water and Sewer
Commission shall have authority and responsibility to foreclose any such lien
in the name of the town.
   (F)   Such liens shall not continue to exist for a period longer than one
year after the connection charge becomes due and payable, unless within that
period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee
describing the premises upon which the lien exists, the reason on account of
which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as a lien shall be
filed in the town land records. Any such lien shall cease to exist whenever a
certificate discharging the same signed by the First Selectman or his or her
designee shall be filed in the town land records. Such liens shall be
discharged by the First Selectman or his or her designee upon payment of such
unpaid connection charges, interest (as set forth in division (E) above) and a
lien fee which shall be an amount which is equal to the sum of a $5
administrative fee and the amount charged by the Town Clerk for recording and
releasing such lien.
(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980 ; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 112, 133; TM Volume 13, page 197, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 50, Amended
§ 52.05 WATER ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Selectmen shall determine that it may be
advisable to make an extension or improvement to the town water system, it may
direct the Board of Water Commissioners to obtain plans and cost estimates
therefore.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of such plans and cost estimates and if in view
thereof it appears that such extension or improvement is necessary or
desirable, the Board of Selectmen shall vote to proceed with such extension or
improvement, shall take all steps necessary in accordance with the Charter to
obtain funds for such extension or improvement and shall direct the Board of
Water Commissioners to prepare estimates of and procedures for assessing
benefits to the properties which are to be benefitted.
   (C)   The Board of Water Commissioners shall thereupon prepare a report
setting forth the method of assessing benefits and the amount of each such
assessment.
   (D)   Within 30 days after receipt of said report, the Board of Selectmen
shall either return said report to the Board of Water Commissioners for
amendment or shall proceed with an ordinance assessing benefits.
   (E)   (1)   There is created a Water Assessment Board of Appeals, consisting
of five electors of the town who shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen,
two members shall be appointed for terms to expire on the first Monday of
January 1972 and three members shall be appointed for terms to expire on the
first Monday of January 1974. Upon expiration of said terms, all terms of
appointment shall be four years.
      (2)   Within 30 days after notice has been sent by U.S. mail, postage
prepaid, to each owner of property benefitted, which notice will include the
amount of the assessment against such property, any such property owner may
appeal from said assessment to the Water Assessment Board of Appeals by filing
written notice of such appeal with said Board of Appeals. Said notice may be
filed at the office of the Board of Selectmen. Forms for said notice may be
prescribed by said Board of Appeals.
      (3)   Said Board of Appeals shall assign a place and time for a hearing
on said appeal. Said hearing shall be held not later than 60 days after the
filing of said notice, and notice of said hearing shall be given by mailing
written notice thereof to said property owners by U.S. mail, postage prepaid,
not less than 15 days before the date of said hearing.
      (4)   Said Board of Appeals may increase or decrease the assessment
against the subject property if it shall appear to the Board that the
assessment was erroneous, or that the nature of the subject property is such
that a redetermination of the assessment would be equitable.
      (5)   Said Board of Appeals shall send notice of its action to said
property owners by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, within 60 days after said
hearing.
   (F)    Any property owner who has prosecuted an appeal to the Water
Assessment Board of Appeals may take an appeal from the action of said Board of
Appeals to the Superior Court for the Judicial District of New London within 30
days after the mailing of the notice of its action by said Board of Appeals.
   (G)   (1)   The assessments of benefits shall become final upon completion
of its duties by the Water Assessment Board of Appeals and shall be recorded in
a water assessment book in the office of the Town Clerk. When any owner of
property shall make use of the water main unless otherwise provided in the
ordinance assessing benefits, the assessment of benefits applicable to said
property shall become due and payable, together with interest at the rate of
12% per annum for the period from the date said assessment became final until
the date of payment, together with any connection charge or similar charge then
in effect. The assessments of benefits shall thereupon become liens upon the
property against which they are made. Any such lien shall be liable to be
foreclosed in the same manner as if it were a mortgage on such land in favor of
the town. Such liens shall not continue to exist for a period longer than one
year after the assessment becomes due and payable unless within that period a
certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee describing the
premises on which such lien exists, the work on account of which it is claimed
and the amount claimed by the town as the lien shall be filed in the town land
records. Any such lien shall cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging
the same signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in
the town land records. Such lien shall be discharged by the First Selectman or
his or her designee upon payment of such unpaid assessment, interest as set
forth herein and a lien fee which shall be an amount which is equal to the sum
of a $5 administrative fee and the amount charged by the Town Clerk for
recording and releasing such lien.
      (2)   The Water and Sewer Commission shall have authority and
responsibility to foreclose any such lien in the name of the town.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, the term PROPERTY OWNER shall be deemed
to mean each person having a property interest in the premises as disclosed by
the town land records.
(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11 page 110, 133; TM Amended
   TM Volume 10, TM Volume 11 Amended; TM Volume 13, page 195, Amended;
   TM Volume 14, page 51, Amended
§ 52.06 WATER BENEFIT CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   There is imposed a benefit charge upon the owner or owners of
property, in any extension area, as from time to time has been or shall be
created, when such property abuts a street within which a water main has been
laid at the expense of anyone other than the town.
      (2)   The benefit charge shall be due and payable at the time of the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or at the time that the Town Water and
Sewer Commission supplies water to the distribution main, whichever occurs
later.
      (3)   Notice of such benefit charges shall be filed on the land records
in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The rates of benefit charges shall be as follows:
 
For each such property containing not more than one single-family       $700
dwelling, requiring for adequate service a 3/4-inch pipe from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service a 1-inch pipe     $850
from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service a 1-1/2-inch pipe $1,700
from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service a 2-inch pipe     $2,100
from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service a 4-inch pipe     $4,200
from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service a 6-inch pipe     $7,000
from the main
For each such property requiring for adequate service an 8-inch pipe    $10,000
from the main
 
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing benefit charges, there shall be imposed
upon owners of property in any such extension area:
      (1)   Where an additional connection to the water main is made, a charge
in accordance with the schedule of rates set out in division (B) above; and
      (2)   Where property previously charged makes such use of the water main
that it requires for adequate service a pipe larger than that for which the
property was charged, a charge equal to the difference between the previous
charge and the rate set out in division (B) above for the larger pipe actually
required.
   (D)   An unmetered fire connection shall not be a connection within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   From the time that any connection charge becomes due and payable, it
shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid. The connection
charge shall, at the time it becomes due and payable, become a lien upon the
property. Any such lien shall be liable to be foreclosed in the same manner as
if it were a mortgage on such land in favor of the town. The Water and Sewer
Commission shall have authority and responsibility to foreclose any such lien
in the name of the town.
   (F)   Such liens shall not continue to exist for a period longer than one
year after the charge becomes due and payable unless within that period a
certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee describing the
premises on which such lien exists, the reason on account of which it is
claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as a lien shall be filed in the
town lands records. Any such lien shall cease to exist whenever a certificate
discharging the same signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall
be filed in the town land records. Such liens shall be discharged by the First
Selectman or his or her designee upon payment of such unpaid benefit charges,
interest (as set forth in division (E) above) and a lien fee which shall be an
amount which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee and the amount
charged by the Town Clerk for recording and releasing such lien.
(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980; Ord. passed 6-1-2004 ; Ord.
passed 1-7-2020)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 198, Amended; TM Volume 14, page 50; TM Volume 22, page
383, Amended
WATER RATES AND CHARGES GENERALLY
§ 52.20 WATER RATES GENERALLY.
   (A)   All rates charged for water supplied by the town shall be and remain a
lien upon the buildings and land in connection with which said water shall have
been used by the owner or occupant thereof until such rates, interest, shut-off
charges and lien fees have been paid; and the Water Commission shall have
authority and responsibility to foreclose such liens in the name of the town.
   (B)   Such lien shall not continue to exist for a period longer than one
year after said rates become due and payable unless within that period a
certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee describing the
premises on which such lien exists, the reason on account of which it is
claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as a lien shall be filed in the
town land records. Any such lien shall cease to exist whenever a certificate
discharging the same signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall
be filed in the town land records.
   (C)   Any such lien shall be discharged by the First Selectman or his or her
designee upon payment of such unpaid water rates, interest at 12% per annum
upon the unpaid water rates from the date of filing, a shut-off fee (as set
forth in division (D) below) and a lien fee, which shall be an amount which is
equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee and the amount charged by the Town
Clerk for the recording and release of such lien.
   (D)   The Water Commission shall have the right to shut off water from the
premises where the water rates remain unpaid 30 days after date of mailing of
bill to the owner or occupant. If so turned off, the water shall not be turned
on again without payment of all unpaid rates, interest, lien fees and a shut-
off fee in such amount as shall from time to time be established by the
Commission, said amount to reasonably reflect the costs incurred in making said
shut-off and resumption of service.
(Ord. passed 11-14-1962; Ord. passed 2-6-1975; Ord. passed 3-22-1979)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 8, page 304; TM Volume 12, page 73, Amended; TM Volume 13, page
196, Amended
§ 52.21 VARIOUS WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Water and Sewer Commission may impose the following charges
upon the owner or owners of property which is served with water by the
Commission; annual private hydrant charge; annual private sprinkler charge;
meter deposit; frozen meter repair or replacement fee; fee for installation and
disconnection of meters for seasonal residences; meter test fees; fee for
inspection of inground water service pipelines being installed in subdivisions;
charge for labor provided to owner at owners request for corrections or repairs
that are owner’s responsibility; charge for sale of materials held in stock by
Water Department.
   (B)   The meter deposit described in division (A) above shall be due and
payable on or before the date that the Commission provides water service to the
owner or owners of property requesting such service. All other charges
described in division (A) above shall be due and payable when the property
owner is billed by the Commission.
   (C)   The amount of such charges shall be established and from time to time
revised by the Town Water and Sewer Commission, and shall reasonably reflect
the costs incurred by the Commission in providing such services and materials.
The Commission shall establish and revise such charges in accordance with the
provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-239, as amended from time to time.
   (D)   From the time that any fee or charge described in this section becomes
due and payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until
paid, unless paid within 30 days from the date it becomes due and payable. Any
such fee or charge shall, at the time it becomes due and payable, become a lien
upon the property. Any such lien shall be liable to be foreclosed in the same
manner provided by law, for the foreclosure of tax liens.
   (E)   Any such lien shall not continue to exist for a period longer than one
year after any such fee or charge becomes due and payable, unless within that
period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee
describing the premises upon which the lien exists, the reason on account of
which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as a lien shall be
filed in the town land records. Any such lien shall cease to exist whenever a
certificate discharging the same signed by the First Selectman or his or her
designee shall be filed in the town land records. Such liens shall be
discharged by the First Selectman or his or her designee upon payment of such
unpaid charges, interest (as set forth in division (D) above), and a lien fee
which shall be an amount which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee
and the amount charged by the Town Clerk for recording and releasing such lien.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1979)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 13, page 213
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of the restrictions imposed
by the Board of Selectmen in §
52.03 shall be fined not more than $99. In the case of a continuing violation,
each day’s continuance thereof shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct
offense.
      (2)   If there has been a violation of any provision of the restrictions
imposed by the Board of Selectmen by the same person on three separate
occasions, the Superintendent of Utilities may, after such notice and hearing
as may be required by the State Department of Public Utilities for termination
of service to such person, enforce such restrictions by reducing or
discontinuing the supply of water to the residence or business owned or
occupied by such person.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1986; Ord. passed 6-18-2003)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Establishment of charges
   
53.003   Tampering with sewage works
   
53.004   Right of entry for purposes of inspection, testing and the like
   
53.005   Appeals; review by Water and Sewer Commission
   
53.006   Variances
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
53.020   Disposition of objectionable items in unsanitary manner prohibited
   
53.021   Treatment required prior to discharge to natural outlet
   
53.022   Connection to public sewer; private disposal systems
   
53.023   New construction requiring sewer building construction permit
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.035   Separate building sewer required; exceptions
   
53.036   Use of old building sewers
   
53.037   Size, slope, alignment and materials of building sewer construction
   
53.038   Laying of building sewer in relation to water line
   
53.039   Laying of building sewer in relation to wells
   
53.040   Elevation requirements for building sewer
   
53.041   Excavations for building sewer installation
   
53.042   Classes of permits; applications
   
53.043   Permit required for connection
   
53.044   Licensed plumber to perform work; exception
   
53.045   Prohibited connections
   
53.046   Inspection by Director
   
53.047   Responsibility of owner for cost of installation or connection
   
53.048   Disused building sewer lines to be sealed
   
53.049   Revocation of permit
Regulation of Discharges to Public Sewers
   
53.060   Prohibited discharges
   
53.061   Limitations on discharges of unusual strength of character; criteria
for consideration
   
53.062   Alternative methods for handling restricted discharges
   
53.063   Restricted discharges subject to review by Commission; preliminary
treatment
   
53.064   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.065   Maintenance of preliminary treatment and flow-equalizing facilities
   
53.066   Control manholes
   
53.067   Authority of Commission to require certain information from user
   
53.068   Standard for measurement; tests and analyses
   
53.069   Special agreements
   
53.070   State requirements of public sewer connection
Sewer Extensions
   
53.085   Compliance with state and town requirements; Commission approval of
plans required
   
53.086   Construction of sewer extensions and building sewers by town;
assessment of costs
   
53.087   Construction by property owner, builder or developer; responsibility
for costs; compliance with section
   
53.088   To be designed by registered engineer
   
53.089   Extensions to be tested prior to acceptance by Commission
Resolution Regarding Adoption of Sewer Use Charges;
Sewer Rates and Charges Generally
   
53.100   Definitions
   
53.101   Sewer Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund
   
53.102   Rates and charges
   
53.103   Billing and late charges
   
53.104   Reporting requirements
   
53.105   Review of charges by Commission
   
53.106   Annual charges by Commission
   
53.107   Methodology to be used in calculating user charge rates and surcharges
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
53.120   Sewer rates and charges
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABBREVIATIONS.
 
ANSI American National Standards Institute
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials
AWWA American Water Works Association
CS   Commercial standard
ppm  parts per million
mg/l milligrams per liter
Reference to standards of the above organization shall refer to the latest
edition of same.
 
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL BY DIRECTOR OR COMMISSION. Will be in writing unless otherwise
stated in §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from the soil, waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMMISSION. The Water and Sewer Commission of the Town of East Lyme,
Connecticut.
   DEP COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Environmental Protection for the State
of Connecticut.
   DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION. The State of Connecticut
Environmental Protection Agency; abbreviated DEP.
   DIRECTOR OF HEALTH. The Director duly appointed by the town, in accordance
with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-200 et seq. or his or her authorized deputy, agent
or representative.
   DIRECTOR or SEWER DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the Commission as an
administrative officer who shall at all times be responsible to and subject to
the Commission and subject to removal for cause. The Commission may also
appoint a Deputy Director who in the Director’s absence shall have the same
powers and duties as the DIRECTOR.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary wastewater.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   OWNER. Titleholder or titleholders of real property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the
public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries wastewater and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period or duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED “STORM SEWER”). A sewer which carries storm
and surface waters and drainage, but excludes wastewater and industrial wastes,
other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The word TOWN or any other word in common usage designating a legally
constituted unit of local government, shall mean the Town of East Lyme
Connecticut.
   TOWN MEETING. The town meeting of the Town of East Lyme, Connecticut.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devises and structures used
for treating wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   All sewer permit, inspection and connection charges, as well as sewage
disposal charges, shall be established by the Commission.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Water and Sewer Commission is hereby designated
a collector of any and all charges lawfully established, now or in the future,
with respect to the rent, use of or connection to the town system.
   (C)   Any charge not timely paid within 30 days of its due date, shall be
delinquent and subject to interest, penalties and liens provided for in Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 7-258, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.003 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or
equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to prosecution pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSES OF INSPECTION, TESTING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Director, his or her Deputy and any other duly authorized employee
of the Water and Sewer Commission, hereinafter severally or collectively
referred to as Director as used in §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089. The Director shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   The Director, his or her Deputy and other duly authorized employees of
the Commission, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewerage works lying within said easement. All entries and subsequent work,
if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work in private properties above, the
Director or duly authorized employees of the municipality shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the user. The user shall
be held harmless for injury or death to the municipal employees and the
municipality shall indemnify the user against loss or damage to its property by
municipal employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the user and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the user to maintain safe conditions as required in this section.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.005 APPEALS; REVIEW BY WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall hear and determine appeals from any person
presented with a notice of violation in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089.
   (B)   Any person requesting an appeal must notify the Commission in writing
of his or her desire to appeal prior to the expiration of the time limit for
compliance stated in the notice of violation.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.006 VARIANCES.
   It shall be the function of the Commission in its sound discretion to vary
or modify the application of any of the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089 when strict enforcement would result in practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardship, and when such situations are not caused by or contributed
to by such applicant.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.020 DISPOSITION OF OBJECTIONABLE ITEMS IN UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement or other objectionable waste in an unsanitary manner as indicated in
the Public Health Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.021 TREATMENT REQUIRED PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089 or with the provisions of the Public Health Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.022 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER; PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Responsibility of owner to provide sanitary facilities and connect
upon availability of public sewer. The owners of all houses, buildings or other
structures used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is now located or where construction has been funded for public
sewers in the town, are hereby required at their expense to install suitable
sanitary facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089, within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the Commission. This
section is subject to the public hearing and appeal rights provided for in
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-257 et seq.
   (B)   Utilization of existing disposal system. An existing subsurface
disposal system may only be utilized in lieu of the public sanitary sewer when,
in the sole discretion of the Commission, unique circumstances exist to justify
such utilization, provided that the existing system has been approved in
writing by both the Commission and the Director of Health, which approval shall
be given only after said Director’s inspection of the subject system, and a
finding is made that the same satisfies prevailing public health, sanitation
and safety standards. Unique circumstances to allow utilization of an existing
system shall be excessive distance from property line to structure, extensive
presence of ledge, or other geographical or topographical conditions such as
wetlands or grade changes which make sewer connection extremely impractical.
Should the system fail at any time after said approval, a connection to the
sewer system must be made within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the
Commission, subject to the public hearing and appeal rights provided for in
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-257 et seq.
   (C)   Connection to sewers installed wholly or partly at the expense of a
party other than the town. When a public sanitary sewer has been constructed
and installed wholly or partly at the expense of a party other than the town,
the owner of houses, buildings or other structures used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which said public sanitary sewer is
located may connect said houses, building or structures to the sewer upon his
or her request and at his or her expense. Before the public sanitary sewer is
installed, the owners of such houses, buildings or structures shall be notified
of their opportunity to connect to the sewer and that their existing subsurface
disposal systems will be inspected by the Director of Health. An existing
subsurface disposal system may be utilized for such houses, buildings,
structures, provided that the existing system has been approved in writing by
the Director of Health, which approval shall be given only after inspection of
the system and a finding that it satisfies prevailing public health, sanitation
and safety standards. Should such existing system not be approved by the
Director of Health, or should the system fail at any time after said approval,
or should a change in use of the premises require an expansion or improvement
of an existing subsurface disposal system, a connection to the sewer system
must be made within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the Commission,
subject to the public hearing and appeal rights provided for in Conn. Gen.
Stat. §§ 7-257 et seq. Any houses, buildings or structures constructed during
or after the installation of any such public sanitary sewer system shall be
connected directly with the sewer in accordance with the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089, within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the Commission.
   (D)   Abandonment of private disposal system. At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to the property served by a private sewage disposal system,
and when a direct connection is made to the public sewer in compliance with
this section within the specified period, any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of
sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.023 NEW CONSTRUCTION REQUIRING SEWER BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   No person shall be allowed to construct any building which is accessible
under §
53.022 unless he or she first obtains a written sewer building construction
permit from the Commission for direct connection to a public sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.035 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. In this case the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. Where there exists a group of
buildings belonging to one commercial, multi-family complex, industrial or
municipal complex, separate individual buildings sewers may be connected to a
single sewer line designed in accordance with §
53.037 and a single connection made to the public sewer system, provided that
it is approved by the Water and Sewer Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.036 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, upon examination and test by the Director, to meet all
requirements of §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.037 SIZE, SLOPE, ALIGNMENT AND MATERIALS OF BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the latest
requirements of the Connecticut State Building Code, the Public Health Code of
the state or the applicable rules and regulations of the town. In the absence
of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures
set forth in the appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Commission before installation.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.038 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER IN RELATION TO WATER LINE.
   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any
bearing wall. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignments
insofar as possible. The changes in direction shall be made only with curved
pipe and fittings which have been approved by the Commission. Whenever sewer
lines, the building drain or building sewer must cross water mains or private
water lines, the sewer shall be laid at such an elevation that the top of the
sewer is at least 18 inches below the bottom of the water line.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.039 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER IN RELATION TO WELLS.
   No building sewer shall be constructed within 25 feet of a water supply
well. If a building sewer is constructed between 25 and 75 feet of a water well
supply, it shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable guidelines
promulgated by the DEP Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.040 ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor to permit gravity flow to the public sewer.
In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged through a pressurized pipe to the
building sewer, and suitable check and backwater valves shall be installed.
Such means of lifting the sewage shall be provided and maintained by the town
and be installed and operated at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.041 EXCAVATIONS FOR BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. All
excavations located on public property shall receive prior approval by the
Planning and Zoning Commissions in accordance with their regulations. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property shall be restored equal to or
better than its original condition prior to construction. All excavations for
the installation of a building sewer shall be open trenchwork unless otherwise
approved by the Commission. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in
accordance with ASTM Specification (C12). The contractor shall obtain a permit
pursuant to §
53.043 and shall give notice of the date of commencement of work more than 24
hours before work begins.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.042 CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATIONS.
   There shall be three classes of sewage connection permits; Class A for the
installation of private sewer disposal facilities; Class B for multi-family
residential and commercial building sewers; and Class C for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In all cases, the owner or his or
her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the Commission.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.043 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Commission unless he or she
represents the Commission in performing maintenance, repair or extension of the
system. The fee for said permit shall be set pursuant to §
53.002.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.044 LICENSED PLUMBER TO PERFORM WORK; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All work shall be performed by a licensed plumber (P-1, P-3) licensed
under Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 20-330 et seq. or as indicated in division (B) below.
The system shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Director when the
laying of a building sewer is completed and before filling of the trench.
   (B)   Should an owner of a single-family residence have a Class A
installation performed by a subsurface sewage disposal system installer
licensed under Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 20-341a et seq., the system shall be further
subject to inspection and approval by the Town Building Inspector when laying
of a building sewer is completed and before filling of the trench.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.045 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer or combined sanitary and storm sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.046 INSPECTION BY DIRECTOR.
   The applicant for the sewer connection permit shall notify the Director when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
All connections to public sewers will be inspected by the Director or his or
her Deputy.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.047 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER FOR COST OF INSTALLATION OR CONNECTION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.048 DISUSED BUILDING SEWER LINES TO BE SEALED.
   When a building is taken down and there is no other building using the sewer
line, it shall be sealed at the old wall with concrete so that no dirt from the
cellar fill will wash into the sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.049 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits to connect to the public sewer may be revoked or annulled by the
Commission for such cause and at such times as the Commission may deem
sufficient and the town is hereby held harmless as a consequence of said
revocation or the cause thereof. All other parties in interest shall be held to
have waived the right to claim damages from the town or its agents on account
of said revocation.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.060 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer. The steam
cleaning of automotive or other mechanical equipment over manhole covers is
prohibited as well as the depositing of wastes from such operation into the
sewer system.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.061 LIMITATIONS ON DISCHARGES OF UNUSUAL STRENGTH OF CHARACTER; CRITERIA
FOR CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or other wastes which can harm either
the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect
on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property
or constitute a nuisance. The acceptability of these wastes will be based on
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the wastewater treatment process, capacity of the wastewater
treatment plan, degree of treatability of wastes in the wastewater treatment
plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any petroleum distillates or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic pollutants, malodorous or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases, in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public
nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment plant, or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (3)   Any water or waste, acid and alkaline in reaction, having a pH
lower than five and five-tenths or having any other corrosive property capable
of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the
sewerage works. The upper limit of pH for any industrial wastewater discharge
shall be established under the dischargers’ state discharge permit. Free acids
and alkalies must be neutralized, at all times, within the above pH range;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substance in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction of the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, chemical residues, cannery waste, bulk solid, cardboard,
styrofoam, beer or distillery slops, lime residues, lime slurry, paint
residues, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, whey and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders. In no case shall a substance discharged
cause the facilities to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, or under
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act or State criteria applicable to the sludge management
method being used;
      (5)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the wastewater treatment plant;
      (6)   Any storm water, roof drains, spring water, cistern or tank
overflow, footing drain, discharge from any vehicle wash rack or water motor,
or the contents of any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool, or the discharge
of effluent from any air conditioning machine or refrigeration unit;
      (7)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (8)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (9)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.75 horsepower metric) or greater shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Director;
      (10)   Any water or waste containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (11)   Any water or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or waste exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits
established by the Commission and by the state regulatory agencies for such
materials;
      (12)   Any water or waste containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations, exceeding limits which may be
established by the Commission as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the applicable state or
federal regulations;
      (14)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such
as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (15)   Unusual quantities of wastes or substances which the treatment
plant cannot treat to the minimal level recommended by the state or federal
regulatory agencies;
      (16)    All discharge of wastewater shall also conform with the
agreements established between the City of New London, the Town of Waterford
and the Town of East Lyme; and
      (17)   Sewage with a concentration of pollutants in excess of the
following limits:
Pollutant Concentration Parts/million(mg/l)
Pollutant                  Concentration Parts/million(mg/l)
Arsenic as As              0.05
Barium as Ba               5.0
Boron as Bo                5.0
Cadmium                    0.1
Chromium (Cr + 6)          0.05
Chromium (total)           1.0
Copper as Cu               1.0
Cyanides as Cn (amendable) 0.1
Fluoride as F              20
Lead                       0.1
Magnesium as Mg            100
Manganese as Mn            5.0
Mercury                    0.01
Nickel                     1.0
Silver                     0.1
Tin                        2.0
Zinc as Zn                 1.0
 
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.062 ALTERNATIVE METHODS FOR HANDLING RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
53.061 and which may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, process
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Commission may:
   (A)   Reject the waste;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
waste not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.063 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY COMMISSION; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   The admission into public sewers of any water or waste having or
containing the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Commission:
      (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 240 parts
per million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 240 parts per million;
      (3)   Containing more than 15 parts per million of chlorine demand;
      (4)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
above the previously described limits; or
      (5)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the town.
   (B)   Where necessary, the owner shall provide at his or her own expense,
such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 240 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 240 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce the chlorine demand to 15 parts per million;
      (3)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
53.061; or
      (4)   Control the quantities and rate of discharge of such water or
waste.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted to the Commission
for approval and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.064 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive
amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Commission and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and
watertight. Proper operation must be assured by proper maintenance.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.065 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AND FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities (including, but
not limited to, grease, oil and sand interceptors) are provided for any water
or waste, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense. These facilities shall be readily
accessible and open to inspection by the Director at any time.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.066 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required by the Commission, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes.
   (B)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.067 AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION TO REQUIRE CERTAIN INFORMATION FROM USER.
   (A)   The Commission may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specific time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers on the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.068 STANDARD FOR MEASUREMENT; TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurement, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089 shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Samplings shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewerage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solid
analyses are obtained from a 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic samples. Samples will be made by the Commission or its
authorized representative and any fee for such services is the sole
responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.069 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the Commission and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste
of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Commission for
treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.070 STATE REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   State permits required. 
      (1)   In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 25-54i, as amended, a permit
from the Commissioner of Environmental Protection is required prior to the
initiation of a discharge of any of the following wastewaters to a public
sewer:
         (a)   Industrial wastewater of any quantity; and
         (b)   Domestic sewage in excess of 5,000 gallons per day through any
individual building sewer to a public sewer.
      (2)   A potential discharger must submit a permit application to the
Department of Environmental Protection not later than ninety (90) days prior to
the anticipated date of initiation of the proposed discharge.
   (B)   Protection from accidental discharges.
      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089.
      (2)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s cost and expense as
required by the Commission. The Commission may require that plans showing
facilities and operating procedures be submitted for review and approval prior
to construction of the facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 53.085 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND TOWN REQUIREMENTS; COMMISSION APPROVAL OF
PLANS REQUIRED.
   All extensions to the sanitary sewer system owned or to be owned and
maintained by the town shall be properly designed in accordance with the
Recommended Standards for Sewage Works, as adopted by the Great Lakes-Upper
Mississippi River Board of State Sanitary Engineers (Ten State Standards) and
in strict conformance with all requirements of the state and the town and other
appropriate town agencies. Plans and specifications for sewer extensions shall
be submitted to and approval obtained from, the Commission before construction
may proceed. The design of sewers must anticipate and allow for flows from all
possible future extensions or developments within the immediate drainage area;
the drainage area being that area which can be easily sewered by gravity.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.086 CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER EXTENSIONS AND BUILDING SEWERS BY TOWN;
ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   Sewer extensions, including individual building sewers from the public sewer
to the property line, may be constructed by the town under public contract if,
in the opinion of the Commission, the number of properties to be serviced by
such extension warrants its costs. Under this arrangement the property owner
shall pay for and install the building sewer from the property line to his or
her residence or place of business in accordance with the requirements of §§
53.035 through
53.049. Property owners may propose sewer extensions to the town by drafting a
written petition, signed by a majority of the benefitting property owners, and
filing it with the Commission. The cost of such extensions may be assessed to
the benefitted property owners.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.087 CONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNER, BUILDER OR DEVELOPER; RESPONSIBILITY
FOR COSTS; COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION.
   If the Commission does not elect to construct a sewer extension under public
contract, the property owner, builder or developer must construct the necessary
sewer extension, including lateral connections from the sewer main to the
property line of each property served by any such extension and lateral
connections to the street line of any public street or way intersecting with
the street or way in which any such extension is constructed or installed, if
such extensions are approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
requirements of §
53.085. He, she or they must pay for the entire installation, including all
expenses incidental thereto. Each building sewer installed must be installed
and inspected as required by §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089 and the inspection fees as required by the Commission shall be paid.
Design of sewers shall be as specified in §
53.088. The installation of the sewer extension must be subject to inspection
by the Director and the expenses for these inspections shall be paid for by the
owner, builder or developer. The Director’s decision shall be final in matters
of quality and methods of construction. The sewer as constructed must pass the
exfiltration and infiltration test required in §
53.089 before it is to be used. The cost of sewer extensions thus made shall be
absorbed by the developers or the property owners, including all building
sewers.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.088 TO BE DESIGNED BY REGISTERED ENGINEER.
   All designs for sewer extensions shall be accomplished by an engineer who is
registered and authorized to practice in the field of sanitary engineering in
the state. The designs and plans prepared by such engineer shall be reviewed by
the Commission. No construction shall be undertaken until approval of the plan
is obtained from the Commission and other agencies as required by the town and
the proper permits are issued.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
§ 53.089 EXTENSIONS TO BE TESTED PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE BY COMMISSION.
   Upon completion of construction of any sewer extension, but before final
acceptance by the Commission, the sewer system shall be tested for infiltration
and exfiltration of both sewer lines and the manholes by approved means and
under the direction and inspection of an engineer registered and authorized to
practice in the field of sanitary engineering in the state with the presence of
the Director. When the sewers have passed tests to demonstrate that they meet
the best standards of American workmanship, then the engineer shall certify in
writing to the Commission as to the nature of the tests and results thereof,
and the fact that the tests meet acceptable standards.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
RESOLUTION REGARDING ADOPTION OF SEWER USE CHARGES;
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES GENERALLY
§ 53.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
at five days at 20°C express in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private businesses and service establishments.
   COMMISSION. The Water and Sewer Commission of the Town of East Lyme,
Connecticut.
   GOVERNMENTAL USERS. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative and
regulatory activities of the federal, state and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes any non-governmental, nonresidential user of
publicly owned treatment works as defined in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions:
      (1)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B - Mining;
      (3)   Division D - Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E - Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary; and
      (5)   Division I - Services.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religious and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 240 parts per million by weight; and suspended solids concentration
of not more than 240 parts per million; or containing more than 15 parts per
million of chlorine demand; or containing any quantity of substances having the
characteristics above the previously described limits; or having an average
daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow of the town.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of such works for
which such works were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the town’s treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SEWER DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the Commission as an administrative
officer who shall at all times be responsible to and subject to the Commission
and subject to removal for cause. The Commission may also appoint a Deputy
Director who in the Director’s absence shall have the same powers and duties as
the Director.
   SHALL. Is mandatory, MAY is permissible.
   SS (DENOTING SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids in which are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage and liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewer
collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances;
extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply of such standby
treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including side
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment
(including land for composting, sludge, temporary storage of such compost and
land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems
before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.)
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the treatment works shall be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the Town Sewer Director or other duly
authorized employee of the Town Water and Sewer Commission.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.101 SEWER OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levy, shall be
deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Sewer Operation,
Maintenance and Replacement Fund.
   (B)   (1)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement Fund shall be used for no other purpose than those designated.
Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary
shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund shall be returned
to their respective accounts appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates
for operation, maintenance and replacement.
      (2)   The user charge rates shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within six months of the
fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.102 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the Commission based
upon use of the treatment works as determined by water meter readings (or other
appropriate methods) acceptable to the Commission.
   (B)   For residential, industrial and commercial users, semi-annual user
charges will be based on actual water usage. If an industrial, institutional or
commercial customer uses water which is not discharged into the wastewater
collection system, and desires not to be billed for use of such water, upon
application to the Commission and approval of such application flows not
discharged to the municipal sewerage system will be metered separately. A
second meter to measure flow to be deducted from the total metered water
consumption at the site. The cost of providing and plumbing the second meter
shall be the sole responsibility of the customer. Properties for which an
exception is granted will be charged a flat fee, to be applied to each semi-
annual usage bill, to offset the Commission’s burden of additional meter
readings and administration expenses associated with “exception” accounts. This
fee will be in an amount equal to the sewer usage then in effect for 25,000
gallons of sewer usage.
   (C)   (1)   All users of the Commission’s facilities shall pay a user fee
based in terms of dollars per 1,000 gallons of water used. The user fee is
calculated as follows:
Rate per 1000 gallons = (Total annual O, M & R Costs Less Permit Fees)
(Estimated Annual Water Consumption/1,000)
      (2)   Each user shall pay a user charge rate for operation and
maintenance including replacement of capital equipment as set forth in §
53.107. The user fee shall be determined per §
53.107 on an annual basis by the Commission and subject to the statutory
limitations contained in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 103, § 7-255. The initial
user charge rate shall hereafter be $4 per 1,000 gallons of water usage. This
fee is subject to change by vote of the Commission pursuant to §
53.106 of these regulations.
   (D)   Each user shall pay upon connecting into the wastewater collection
system a permit and inspection fee of $50. This fee is subject to change by
vote of the Commission pursuant to §
53.106 of these regulations.
   (E)   Those residential users that derive potable water from on site wells
without metered water service shall install a water meter for measuring volume
or, as approved by the Commission, have their bills computed based on water use
associated with similar residential users within the system.
   (F)   Any user that discharges any toxic pollutants (as defined in §§
53.001 through
53.006,
53.020 through
53.023,
53.035 through
53.049,
53.060 through
53.070 and
53.085 through
53.089) which causes an increase in the cost of managing the effluent of the
sludge from the town’s treatment works, or any user which discharges any
substance which singly or by interaction with other substances causes
identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance or replacement of
the treatment works, shall pay for such increased cost. The charge to each such
user shall be determined by the Sewer Director and approved by the Commission.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.103 BILLING AND LATE CHARGES.
   (A)   All users shall be billed semi-annually. Semi-annual bills shall be
due and payable to the Commission on November 1 and May 1 of each year. Any
payment not received within 30 days after the due date shall be delinquent and
subject to interest and penalties pursuant to law.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of 1% of the user charge bill will be added to
each delinquent bill for each 30 days or a portion thereof of delinquency. When
any bill is more than 90 days in default, water and/or sewer service to such
premises may be discontinued until such bill is paid.
   (C)   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for one
year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land records of the
town by the Chairperson of the Commission and shall constitute a lien on the
property. If such lien (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for a
period of one year after the date of recordation, such property shall be
subject to public sale pursuant to law.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.104 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All users contributing more than 200,000 gallons per month and whose waste
strength is greater than 240 mg/l BOD/l or 240 mg/l SS/l shall prepare and file
with the Commission a report that shall include pertinent data relating to the
wastewater characteristics, including the methods of sampling and measurement
to obtain these data, and these data shall be used to calculate the user
charges for that user. The Commission shall have the right to gain access to
the waste stream and make its own samples. Should the Commission do so and
should the results be substantially different as determined by the Commission
from the data submitted by the user, the user charge for that user shall be
revised for the next billing cycle/period.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.105 REVIEW OF CHARGES BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Any user(s) who feels their user charge is unjust or inequitable may
make written application to the Commission requesting a review of their user
charge. Said written request shall, where necessary, show the actual or
estimated flow and/or strength of his or her wastewater in comparison with the
values upon which the charge is based, including how the measurements or
estimates were made.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the Water and Sewer Commission
and, if substantiated, the user charges for that user shall be recomputed on
the basis of the revised flow and/or strength data and the new charges shall be
applicable to the next billing cycle/period.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.106 ANNUAL CHARGES BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission will review the user charges when it deems appropriate
and may revise its rates and fees as are necessary to ensure that adequate
revenues are generated to pay the cost of operation and maintenance including
replacement and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement cost among
users and user classes.
   (B)   The Commission will notify each user of any rate change(s) by
publication of said rate change in The Day newspaper on at least two occasions
more than 30 days before said rate change becomes effective.
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
§ 53.107 METHODOLOGY TO BE USED IN CALCULATING USER CHARGE RATES AND
SURCHARGES.
   This section presents the methodology to be used in calculating user charge
rates and surcharges and illustrates the calculations followed in arriving at
the first year’s user charges and surcharges.
   (A)   Expenses: total annual expenses by unit process are:
 
Unit Process       Total Annual Amount Volume Amount Permit Fund Gen   Costs
Pump stations,
collection and     $269,200            85%           4.5%        10.5%
conveyance system
Administrative and $20,800             85%           4.5%        10.5%
general
Operative reserve  0
Reserve capital    0
replacement
TOTAL O, M & R Costs = $290,000
 
   (B)   Loadings: the total water consumption is estimated to be 61,750,000
gal/year.
   (C)   Unit costs.
 
Total annual O, M & R costs in
$/1,000 gallons = Total annual O, M & F $ Estimated annual water consumption/
1,000 gallons
$/1,000 gallons = $247,000 = 4.00/1,000 gal.
      61,750
 
(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.120 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   On October 25, 2016, the Town Water and Sewer Commission approved the
following revised schedule of rates and charges for connection to and use of
the town sewerage system.
Schedule I - Rates for Usage Based on Meter Readings at 6-Month Intervals
                                      Rate
Up to 2,500,000 gallons per 6-month    $7.90/1,000 gallons
period
2,500,000 gallons and over per 6-month $8.59/1,000 gallons
period
Unmetered, per six 6-month period      $208
Schedule II - Miscellaneous Sewer Charges
Application for connection permit
   Class A - Residential            $105
   Class B - Multi-family and       $210
commercial
   Class C - Industrial             $525
   Demolition/disconnect - any class$55
Inspection services
   After normal working hours       $110/hour
   During normal working hours      $73.50/hour
Sale of stocked material               Cost, incl. shipping, plus 12% admin fee
 
   (B)   These revised rates and charges would be effective on November 1,
2017. Rates for usage shall be payable at six-month intervals. All other rates
shall be payable at the time services are rendered.
   (C)   The owners of properties against which the revised rates and charges
are to be levied are hereby notified that any appeals from the revised rates
and charges must be taken within 21 days after the date this notice was filed
with the Town Clerk on November 3, 2017.
(Ord. passed 11-1-2006; Ord. passed - -2009; Ord. passed 10-24-2012; Ord.
passed 10-29-2014; Ord. passed 10-25-2016; Ord. passed 11-2-2017)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 49
   AMENDED BELOW
      TM Volume 15, page 229; TM Volume 16, page 19; TM Volume 16, page 126; TM
Volume 20, page 5; TM Volume 22, page 150; TM Volume 22, page 624
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The filling of a trench before inspection is complete shall subject
the owner to whom a permit is issued to a penalty of $100 for each offense and
the owner may be required to reopen the trench for inspection.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)
Editor’s note:
TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
71.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
70.01   Operation of motor vehicles on town-owned property
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person shall operate on
any town-owned property, any motor vehicle, as defined in division (C) below,
which is not registered for highway operation by the individual, commission,
department or agency of any state having authority for the registration of
motor vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person shall
operate on any town-owned property any motor vehicle, as defined in division
(C) below, unless such person is licensed by the individual, commission,
department or agency of any state having authority for licensing operators of
motor vehicles on highways or unless such person is participating in a course
of study of motor vehicles operation given under the authority of the Town
Board of Education.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, as defined in division (C)
below, on any town-owned property, except on paved roads, driveways and parking
lots unless such person is a town, state or federal official engaged in
government business or a person authorized to do so by the town board having
responsibility for the care and maintenance of such property.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE means any vehicle
propelled or drawn by any power other than muscular, but does not include
construction equipment being operated on any project of the town, electric
battery-operated wheel chairs when operated by physically handicapped persons
and self-propelled snow plows, snow blowers and lawn mowers.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the operation of any motor
vehicle, as defined in division (C) above, on any town-owned property during
participation in any program on any such property authorized by the town board
having responsibility for the care and maintenance of such property and
supervised by any town board.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1971; Ord. passed 1-3-1977) Penalty, see §
70.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 348; TM Volume 12, page 292, Amended
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of §
70.01 shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1971; Ord. passed 1-3-1977)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 348; TM Volume 12, page 292, Amended
CHAPTER 71: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Zoning Enforcement Officer’s duties
   
71.02   Vehicle not removed
   
71.03   Notice
§ 71.01 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   Upon receipt of notice that there is an abandoned, inoperable or
unregistered motor vehicle within the limits of any highway, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall:
   (A)   Give written notice by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to the last owner
of record of such vehicle, if such owner can be determined; and
   (B)   Publish notice once in a newspaper having a substantial circulation in
the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 138
§ 71.02 VEHICLE NOT REMOVED.
   If such vehicle is not removed within 30 days after the notice provided for
in §
71.01, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall:
   (A)   If the current market value of such vehicle is not more than the
expenses of Zoning Enforcement Officer and the cost of removing such vehicle to
the nearest motor vehicle junk yard, provide for the removal there of such
vehicle; and
   (B)   If the current market value of such vehicle is more than the expenses
of the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the cost of removing such vehicle to the
nearest motor vehicle junk yard, proceed in accordance with the provisions of
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-150(b) and (c), as the same may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 138
§ 71.03 NOTICE.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall give written notice by U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, of the disposition of such vehicle to the Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles and the owner of such vehicle, if such owner can be determined.
(Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 138
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Restricting parking of commercial vehicles in residential zones
   
72.02   General parking restrictions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 RESTRICTING PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   No commercially operated or licensed vehicle having a gross weight of 10,000
pounds or more, shall be parked or stored on any public street in a residential
zoned area except as follows:
   (A)   When actively engaged in the conduct of business, i.e., loading,
unloading, installation or repair, and directly related to property located in
a residential zone;
   (B)   In connection with any legally existing, nonconforming, nonresidential
use located in a residential zone. Any on-street parking of such vehicles shall
be restricted to the abutting street frontage related to the nonresidential
use; and
   (C)   On an occasional basis, not exceeding an average of once a month, when
such use is in conjunction with the need for emergency repair response such as
by a utility serviceman or mechanical systems repairman, or other incidental
use approved in writing by the First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 9-24-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 15
§ 72.02 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parking in the following manner on a highway or a
municipal parking lot in the town.
      (1)   Upon a highway:
         a.    Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
         b.   Parallel and adjacent to a vehicle already parked in a particular
area;
         c.   Upon any public sidewalk except when in the process of crossing
said sidewalk or when necessary to perform sidewalk construction, maintenance
or snow removal or when other emergency circumstances require;
         d.   In such manner as to obstruct or interfere with the ingress or
egress from a private driveway or alleyway, except with the permission of the
owner of such private driveway or alleyway;
         e.   Upon the traveled portion of any highway except upon the right-
hand side of such highway in the direction in which such vehicle is headed;
         f.   With the right-hand wheels further than 12 inches from the curb
or edge of the highway;
         g.   Within 25 feet of any intersection, marked crosswalk or stop
sign;
         h.   At a bus stop, taxi-stand, loading and unloading zones except
vehicles performing the intended purpose in those designated areas;
         i.   In such manner as to obstruct the flow of traffic;
         j.   In violation of any sign posted by the traffic authority of the
town or the State of Connecticut which prohibits, limits or regulates the
parking of vehicles within the town.
      (2)   In a municipal lot:
         a.   In violation of any restrictions posted by order of the Board of
Selectmen or the legal traffic authority of the town;
         b.   In such manner as to obstruct or interfere with the ingress or
egress from the lot;
         c.   In such manner as to obstruct or prevent the movement of other
parked vehicles within the lot.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         HIGHWAY. Includes any state or public highway, road, avenue, street,
alley, driveway, parkway or thoroughfare under the jurisdiction of the town.
         MUNICIPAL LOT. Any area under the jurisdiction of the town that is
dedicated and posted for the parking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Enforcement. Any officer or other designated representative of the
town Police Department may attach to any vehicle found in violation of any of
the regulations set forth in this section, a notice to the owner or operator
thereof that such vehicle has been parked unlawfully, identifying which
prohibited act(s) have been violated and the penalties for such violation(s)
and that the owner or operator shall pay the penalty for such violation by
appearing in person at Police Headquarters or by mailing such notice, with the
amount of the penalty, to the town Police Department.
   (C)   Collection and disbursement of funds received as penalties. The town
Police Department is authorized to accept payment of the penalties from any
person found to be in violation of this section. The Police Department shall
deposit such payments into an account designated by the Board of Selectmen. The
Police Department shall keep a record of all such penalties paid to it for such
violations and the registration information of all such vehicles found to be in
violation and present the same to the Board of Police Commissioners as
requested by the Commission. Such report shall be kept for record in the Town
Hall.
   (D)   Appeals process. The town hereby adopted the provisions of Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-152b, as it may be amended from time to time, which section
establishes a hearing procedure for parking violations as more particularly set
forth in said statute.
   (E)   Snow emergencies. Any vehicle parked on a highway within the town
during, or within 12 hours after, a snowfall of three inches or more shall be
subject to being removed and towed. Such removal shall be at the risk and sole
expense of the owner of the vehicle.
   (F)   Towing. In addition to penalties described in this section and §
72.99, a town police officer may order any vehicle which is parked so as to
impede traffic or to obstruct snow removal operations to be towed from the
location in which it is parked to a suitable location at the owner's or
operator's expense. The procedure for such removal is set forth in Conn. Gen.
Stat. §§ 14-145 and 14-150.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2018)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Each violation of §
72.01 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $99.
   (C)    The fine for parking in the town in violation of the General Statutes
or the rules enacted by the Board of Selectmen, as the traffic authority of the
town, shall be $5 for each offense.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of §
72.02 shall be $50. If the designated fine is not paid within 14 calendar days,
said fine shall double in amount.
(Ord. passed 6-24-1976; Ord. passed 9-24-1986; Ord. passed 8-2-2018)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 240
   TM Volume 16, page 15
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of snow mobiles and all-terrain vehicles on frozen surface of
public bodies of water
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF SNOW MOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON FROZEN SURFACE OF
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle, as defined in
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-379, at any time on the frozen surface of the following
public bodies of water within the town:
   (A)   Dodge Pond;
   (B)   Gorton Pond;
   (C)   Niantic River;
   (D)   Pattagansett Lake; and
   (E)   Pattagansett River.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 103
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
73.01 shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 103
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NOISE CONTROL
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   MASS GATHERINGS
      
93.   CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   STREETS
      
98.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Noise levels
   
90.04   Exclusions
   
90.05   Exemptions
   
90.06   Refuse collection noise
   
90.07   Motor vehicle noise
   
90.08   Variances
   
90.09   Severability
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the general authority of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148 and the
specific authority of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-73(c) it is hereby resolved that
to preserve and promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens
of the town; it is in the common interest to enact a reasonable regulation
pertaining to the reduction, control and/or prevention of noise as to promote a
general environment free from excessive noise and vibration.
   (B)   This chapter is enacted to preserve, protect and promote the public
health, safety, convenience, general welfare, peace, quality of life and
property values for the citizens of the town, and to facilitate the enjoyment
of natural resources and tranquility of the town, through the reduction,
control and prevention of excessive noise and vibration.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT NOISE or BACKGROUND NOISE. Noise of a measurable intensity which
exists at a point as a result of a combination of many distant sources
individually indistinguishable.
   BOARD OF SELECTMEN. The Board of Selectmen of the Town of East Lyme or a
duly authorized officer.
   COMMERCIAL ZONE. As set forth in the town zoning regulations and all
associated therewith either permitted as a right or as a special use.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, for or of public or private rights-of-way,
structures, utilities or similar properties, but excluding demolition.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or device operated by any fuel or
electric power used in construction or demolition work.
   DAYTIME HOURS. The hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday, and the hours 9:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit of measure in measuring magnitudes or sound. The
symbol of dB.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-or-way surfaces or similar
properties.
   DOMESTIC POWER EQUIPMENT. Including, but not limited to, power saws, drills,
grinders, lawn and garden tools and other domestic power equipment intended for
use in residential areas by a homeowner.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
perceived imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate
action.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle authorized by the State of Connecticut
to have sound warning devices, such as sirens and bell, which can lawfully be
used when responding to an emergency. (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-283)
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following an emergency or work required to protect persons or property from
exposure of imminent danger.
   IMPULSE NOISE. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
   INDUSTRIAL ZONE. As set forth in the town zoning regulations and all uses
associated therewith, either permitted as a right or a special use.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Per Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1.
   MUFFLER. A device for abating sounds such as escaping gases.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. The hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Sunday evening
through Saturday morning, except that NIGHT shall mean the hours between 10:00
p.m. Saturday and 9:00 a.m. Sunday.
   NOISE. Any sound, the intensity of which exceeds the standards set forth in
§
90.03.
   NOISE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured with a sound level meter
using the A-weighting network. The level so read is designed db(A) or dBA.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, syndicate, company,
trust, corporation, municipality, agency or political or administrative
subdivision of the state or other legal entity of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, land or portion thereof, including all
appurtenances, and shall include yard, lots, courts, inner yards and real
properties without building or improvements owned or controlled by a person.
The emitter’s PREMISES includes contiguous publicly dedicated street and
highway rights-or-way, all road rights-or-way and waters of the state.
   PROPERTY LINE. That real or imaginary line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension which separates real property owned or controlled by any
person from contiguous real property owned or controlled by another person and
separates real property from the public right-of-way.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, park, waterway, railroad or similar place which is owned or controlled
by a governmental entity.
   RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle, whether or not duly
licensed and registered, including, but not limited to, commercial or
noncommercial racing vehicles, motorcycles, dirt bikes, go-carts, ATVs,
snowmobiles, amphibious craft, campers and dune buggies, but not including
motorboats or aircraft.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONE. Those residential districts as defined and set forth in
the town zoning regulations and all uses associated therewith either permitted
as a right or as a special use.
   SOUND. A transmission of energy through solid, liquid or gaseous media in
the form of vibrations which constitute alterations in pressure or position of
the particles in the medium and which, in air, evoke physiological sensations,
including, but not limited to, an auditory response when impinging on the ear.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument used to take sound-level measurements and
which should conform, as a minimum, to the operational specifications of the
American National Standards Institute for Sound Level Meters S1.4. 1971 (Type
S2A).
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio
of the pressure of a sound to the reference pressure of 20 micronewtons per
square meter and is expressed in decibels (dB).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.03 NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of excessive noise beyond
the boundaries of his or her premises in excess of the following noise levels:
 
Property Use Emitter        Property Use Receptor
                            Residential   Nonresidential
                            Day    Night  Day    Night
Nonresidential zone emitter 55 dBA 45 dBA 52 dBA 45 dBA
Residential zone emitter    55 dBA 45 dBA 55 dBA 45 dBA
 
   (B)   Measurements shall be taken at a point on the property line of the
emitter closest to the receptor and/or at the property line at any neighboring
property (that may or may not be contiguous) with a more restrictive decibel
allowance. In cases where the emitter is located on jointly owned property,
such as industrial parks and condominiums, the noise measuring equipment (i.e.,
microphone) shall be placed at a 50-foot distance from the noise source. The
microphone shall be placed no closer than five feet from any wall and not less
than three feet above ground that is located about one foot beyond the boundary
of the emitter’s premises within the receptors premises. The emitter’s premises
include his or her individual unit of land or group of contiguous parcels under
same ownership as indicted by public land records.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise in
excess of 80 dBA peak sound pressure level during the night time to any
residential noise zone.
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise in
excess of 100 dBA peak sound pressure level at any time to any zone.
      (3)   In those individual cases where the background noise levels caused
by sources not subject to this chapter exceed the standards contained herein, a
source shall be considered to cause excessive noise if the noise emitted by
such source exceeds the background noise level by 5 dBA, provided that no
source subject to the provisions of the noise levels in division (A) above,
shall emit noise in excess of 80 dBA at any time, and provided that this
section does not decrease the permissible levels of the other sections of the
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 EXCLUSIONS.
   These levels shall not apply to noise emitted by or related to:
   (A)   Natural phenomena;
   (B)   Any bell or chime from any building clock, school or church;
   (C)   Any siren, whistle or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles or any
other alarm system used in an emergency situation; provided however, that
burglar alarms not terminating in 30 minutes after being activated shall be
unlawful;
   (D)   Warning devices required by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration of other state of federal safety regulations;
   (E)   Farming equipment or farming activity; and
   (F)   Train horns and signals.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from these regulations subject to special
conditions as spelled out:
   (A)   Noise generated by any construction equipment which is operated during
daytime hours. Noise generated by construction equipment during nighttime hours
shall not exceed the maximum noise levels as specified on §
90.03;
   (B)   Noise created as a result of or relating to an emergency;
   (C)   Noise from domestic power equipment such as, but not limited to, power
saws, sanders, grinders, lawn and garden tools or similar devices operated
during daytime hours;
   (D)   Noise from snow removal equipment;
   (E)   Noise from demolition work conducted during daytime hours. When
considered emergency work, demolition shall be exempted at all times from the
noise levels set in this regulation;
   (F)   Noise created by any aircraft flight operations which are specifically
permitted by the Federal Aviation Administration;
   (G)   Noise created by any recreational activities which are permitted by
law and for which a license or permit has been granted by the town or state,
including, but not limited to, parades, sporting events, concerts and firework
displays;
   (H)   Noise created by blasting other than that conducted in connection with
construction activities shall be exempted, provided that the blasting is
conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. local time at specified hours
previously announced to the local public or provided that a permit for such
blasting is obtained from local authorities; and
   (I)   Noise generated by the police and other established shooting
facilities as permitted by state firearms laws, Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-74a.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.06 REFUSE COLLECTION NOISE.
   All refuse collectors shall comply with the noise level standards as
established in this chapter while engaging in refuse collection at each
location. For purposes of this chapter, the term REFUSE COLLECTORS shall be
synonymous with private haulers, and all other persons that commercially engage
in the collection and transportation of refuse and other debris.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   All motor vehicles as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 246, § 14-1,
operated within the limits of the town shall be subject to the noise standards
and decibel levels set forth in the regulations authorized in Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 14-80a.
   (B)   No sound-amplifying devices on or within motor vehicles shall emit
noise in excess of the noise levels as specified in the noise levels section (§
90.03).
   (C)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any recreational
motorized vehicle off a public right-of-way in such a manner that the sound
level emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set forth in §
90.03.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person living or doing business in the town may apply to the
town’s Board of Selectmen for variance from one or more of the provisions of
the chapter which are more stringent than the State Department of Environmental
Protection regulations for the control of noise; provided that the applicant
supplied all of the following information to the Board of Selectmen at least 20
days prior to the start of said activity:
      (1)   The location and nature of the activity;
      (2)   The time period and hours of operation of said activity;
      (3)   The nature and intensity of the noise that will be generated; and
      (4)   Any other information required by the Board of Selectmen.
   (B)   No variance from these regulations shall be allowed unless it has been
demonstrated that:
      (1)   The proposed activity will not violate any provisions of the State
Department of Environmental Protection regulations;
      (2)   The noise levels generated by the proposed activity will not
constitute a danger to the public health; and
      (3)   Compliance with the regulations constitutes an unreasonable
hardship on the applicant.
   (C)   The application for variance shall be reviewed and either approved or
rejected at least five days prior to the proposed start of said activity. The
approval or rejection shall be writing and shall state the condition(s) of
approval, if any, or the reason(s) for rejection.
   (D)   Failure to rule on the application in the designated time shall
constitute approval of the variance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any term or provision, or any portion thereof, of this chapter, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall, to any extent, be
invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the chapter, or the application of
such term or provision to persons or circumstances, other than those as to
which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and
each term and provision of this chapter shall be valid and be enforced to the
fullest extent permitted by law. Should a court of competent jurisdiction find
any provision or part of a provision unenforceable as written the court may
reform such provision or part of a provision to render it enforceable
consistent with the general intent of the remaining portion of such provision
and/or this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Town Police Department (the “Police Department”) shall be
responsible or investigating and documenting, through acoustic measurements,
violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the chapter shall be
fined $90 and each additional violation shall constitute a separate offense.
Any certified law enforcement agent with jurisdiction in the town is hereby
authorized to issue infraction ticket(s) pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 51-
164p(a), 51-164m and 51-164n.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any other remedies available to the town under the Connecticut General Statutes
and other sections of the Town Charter. The issuance of infraction tickets
under this chapter shall not preclude the exercise of such other remedies. In
addition, the town may seek injunctive relief for continued or repeated
violations.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Applicability
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Registrations
   
91.05   Connection to telephone lines restriction
   
91.06   Waiver of charges
   
91.07   Enforcement
   
91.08   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the registration, operation and
use of burglar, fire, medical or any other alarms or emergency signaling
devices within the town and to support and enforce the maintenance of said
system.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22, page 250
§ 91.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person or entity who
operates or owns any alarm system that automatically summons the police, fire,
medical or ambulance personnel or other town agency in response to an alarm
signal.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM OWNER OR USER. Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity
that owns, controls, installs, operates or maintains any alarm system as
defined in division (1) of the definition for alarm systems below.
   ALARM SYSTEMS.
      (1)   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or equipment which is capable of
activating the municipal fire alarm system, or is capable of automatically
calling and relaying recorded emergency messages to any state police or
municipal police or fire department telephone number, or which is capable of
automatically calling and relaying recorded emergency messages or other forms
of emergency signals to an intermediate third party which shall thereafter call
and relay such emergency message to a state police or municipal police or fire
department telephone number.
      (2)   ALL ALARM SYSTEM. Any system which sounds an audible signal that
may be heard outside the protected premises. Said systems shall be equipped
with a device that will limit the duration of such audible signal to not more
than ten minutes.
      (3)   BURGLAR ALARM. Any alarm system falling within the definition of
alarm system above which is designed to transmit a signal in event of
intrusion, hold up or other type of emergency situation.
      (4)   FIRE ALARM. Any system which falls within the definition of alarm
system above which is designated to transmit an alarm relating to fire.
   ALARM APPEAL BOARD. Consists of a three-member panel selected by the First
Selectman from the following officials: the resident state trooper, the Chief
of Police, the Chiefs of the Niantic and Flanders Fire Departments, and the
East Lyme Fire Marshal.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING SERVICE. An alarm system which automatically
sends over regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a pre-
recorded voice message indicating the existence of an emergency situation that
the alarm is designated to detect.
   CENTRAL STATION OPERATING COMPANY. A company equipped to receive burglar,
fire, panic, intruder or hold-up alarms from each of its customers and which
then transmits to the state police or Town Emergency Communications Center the
location and type of any such alarm the central station operating company
receives.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm (such as a fire or burglar alarm) that is set.
   KEY HOLDER. Any person whose name appears on the registration form as a key
holder or is designated in writing by the alarm owner or user to respond to the
premises of alarm activation when requested by the Police Department or Fire
Department (e.g., reset system, gain entry and the like).
   SELECTMEN. The Board is designated to hear appeals and assess fines and
penalties.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.04 REGISTRATIONS.
   (A)   The alarm owner/user or central station operating company shall,
within 30 days of installation or activation of an alarm system, complete a
registration form provided by the town which shall include information
concerning the alarm device, location, key holder(s) and any other necessary
information.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm owner/user or central
station operating company to notify the town within ten days, in writing, of
changes in registration information.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.05 CONNECTION TO TELEPHONE LINES RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other business entity shall connect to
a telephone company’s network any automatic dialing device or other alarm
system which causes the number “911” to be automatically dialed.
   (B)   Automatic dialing devices may only be connected to a seven digit
telephone number (excluding area code) assigned by the town. The automatic
dialing device must be equipped to disconnect after three rings.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 WAIVER OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a timely appeal for a false alarm charge or
registration violation, the Alarm Appeal Board shall hold a hearing to consider
waiving said charge. The Appeal Board shall mail a notice of the time and place
of said hearing to the alarm owner/user at his or her last known address at
least 15 days before the hearing. On the basis of information provided by the
alarm owner/user and other information introduced at the hearing, the Board
shall affirm the charge or waive the charge.
   (B)   An appeal shall be considered timely if written notice thereof is
filed at the office of the First Selectman within 15 days after notice of the
false alarm charge or registration violation is mailed to the alarm owner/user.
   (C)   If an alarm owner/user notifies the proper agency that will receive
his or her alarm when activated, Town Communications (739-3149) or State Police
Dispatch (848-6500) at least one hour prior to any service test, repair or
adjustment of an alarm system that may activate a false alarm, no charge shall
be imposed. In the case of fire alarm systems, the alarm owner/user shall
notify the Town Communications Center at 739-3149 as soon as all service, test,
repair or adjustment of the alarm system has been completed.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town may institute civil proceedings to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.08 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the town and its
departments, officers, agents and employees shall be under no obligation
whatsoever to ensure or verify the adequacy, proper installation, maintenance,
use or resetting of any alarm device. The town assumes no liability for the
failure of alarm devices. Each alarm owner/user shall be deemed to hold and
save harmless the town and its departments, officers, agents and employees from
any and all liability arising out of, resulting from or relating to an alarm
owner/user’s installation, operation, maintenance and use of an alarm system.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event there are three false alarm responses to the same
location within the same calendar year, a written warning will be issued to the
alarm owner/user upon the occurrence of the third false alarm, notifying them
of impending charges for further false alarms occurring within a 12-month
period.
   (B)   A charge of $25 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon the
occurrence of a fourth false alarm response within a 12-month period.
   (C)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon the
occurrence of all subsequent false alarm responses after four within the 12-
month period.
   (D)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for failure
to register an alarm system with the town emergency services.
   (E)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for failure
to provide notification of any changes in registration to the town emergency
services.
   (F)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for the
failure of a key holder to timely respond to the premises of the alarm when
requested by the Police Department or Fire Department.
   (G)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon the
occurrence of any automatic dialing violation as set forth in §
91.05.
   (H)   A charge of $25 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for the
failure of an alarm owner/user to notify the Emergency Services Communication
Center of an alarm system service test, repair or adjustment of an alarm system
which results in a false alarm response.
   (I)   Charges for violations will be payable to the town and collected by
the Police Department or the First Selectman’s designee and deposited into the
General Fund.
(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)
CHAPTER 92: MASS GATHERINGS
Section
   
92.01   License required
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Licenses
   
92.04   Application
   
92.05   Processing of application
   
92.06   Revocation of license
   
92.07   Appeals
   
92.08   Enforcement
   
92.09   Exclusions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   In order to preserve the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
town by requiring at assemblies adequate water facilities, sanitary facilities,
illumination and other safety precautions so as to minimize the risk of injury
or illness to any person and in order to promote the safe, orderly and
uninterrupted passage of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic, a license shall
be required before an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of over 200
people shall be allowed in the town.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. A company of persons gathered together at any location at any
single time for any purpose.
   PERSONS. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
association, society or group.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, organize, manage or sell or give tickets to an actual or
reasonably anticipated assembly of over 200 people, whether on public or
private property, unless a license to hold the assembly has first been issued
by the First Selectman. A license to hold an assembly issued to one person
shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in connection with the
holding of the licensed assembly.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each assembly and each
location in which such people assemble or can reasonably be anticipated to
assemble. No license shall be issued for an assembly for more than three days,
but the First Selectman may extend the permit if it appears that the
requirements of this chapter have been complied with and that a new permit
would be granted if applied for. No extension shall be for more than three
days, but more than one extension may be granted.
   (C)   A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number of
people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to nor permit
to assemble at the licensed location more than that number of people.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license to hold such an actual or anticipated
assembly shall be made in writing to the First Selectman at least five days in
advance of such assembly.
   (B)   The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the
best of the knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed by the individual
making application in the case of an individual or by a duly authorized officer
or agent in the case of a corporation, partnership, unincorporated association,
group or society. Such authorization of the officer or agent shall be in
writing.
   (C)   The application shall contain and disclose:
      (1)   The name, evidence of majority, residence and mailing address of
all persons required to sign the application by division (B) above;
      (2)   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner or owners of all such property;
      (3)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held and a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner or
owners of all such property that the applicant has permission to use such
property for such an assembly;
      (4)   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      (5)   The total number of days or hours during which the assembly is to
last;
      (6)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, provided the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum
number which can reasonably assemble at the location of the assembly in
consideration of the nature of the assembly and provided, where the assembly is
to continue overnight, the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number
which is allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the assembly
by the zoning regulations of the town;
      (7)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      (8)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      (9)   The plans for supplying potable water meeting all federal and state
requirements for purity, including the source, amount available and location of
outlets. The potable water shall be sufficient to provide drinking water for
the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon
per person per day;
      (10)   The plans for supplying toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number, location and type. The plans shall provide for separate
enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state and local
specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds, sufficient to
provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate
of at least one toilet for every 200 females and at least one toilet for every
300 males, together with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste
matter deposited, which is in compliance with all state and local laws and
regulation;
      (11)   The plans for holding, collecting and disposing of solid waste
material. The plans shall provide for a sanitary method of disposing of solid
waste, in compliance with state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to
dispose of the solid waste production of the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least two and one-half pounds of solid waste per
person per day, together with a plan for collecting all such waste at least
once each day of the assembly, sufficient personnel to perform the task and
sufficient trash cans with tight-fitting lids;
      (12)   If the assembly is to continue during the hours of darkness, the
plans to illuminate the location of the assembly, including the source and
amount of power and the location of lamps. The plans shall provide for
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five foot candles, but not to shine directly on properties adjacent to
the boundaries of the location of the assembly;
      (13)   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots. The plans shall provide for a parking area
inside of the assembly grounds or off street within a reasonable distance from
the assembly grounds sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number
of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one parking space for every
four persons;
      (14)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, the plans for camping
facilities including facilities available and their location. The plans shall
provide for camping facilities, if any, in compliance with all state and local
requirements, sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum
number of people to be assembled;
      (15)   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
deployment, and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability.
Such guards shall be either regularly employed, duly sworn, off-duty constables
or private guards. The plans shall provide for sufficient guards to provide
adequate security for the maximum number of people to be assembled, giving
consideration to the nature of the assembly;
      (16)   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available. The plans shall provide for
sufficient protective devices, fire lanes and escapes to meet all state and
local standards for the location of the assembly and for sufficient emergency
personnel to operate efficiently the required equipment;
      (17)   The plans for sound control and sound amplification, if any,
including the number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers. The plans
shall provide for all reasonably necessary precautions to ensure that the sound
of the assembly will not carry beyond the boundaries of the location of the
assembly; and
      (18)   The plans for food concessions and concessioners who will be
allowed to operate the grounds including the names and addresses of all
concessioners and their license or permit numbers.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.05 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   The completed application for a license shall be processed within three days
of its receipt and shall be issued if there is compliance with all conditions.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
First Selectman at any time if any of the conditions necessary for the issuing
of the license are not complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases
to be complied with.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a license under
this chapter may appeal to the Board of Selectmen, provided such appeal is
taken within 15 days from such denial or revocation. The Board of Selectmen
shall consider and decide such appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting
after filing of the appeal provided that such appeal has been presented to the
Board least 48 hours before such regularly scheduled meeting. In the event such
appeal has not been filed at least 48 hours before the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board, such appeal shall be considered and decided at the second
regularly scheduled meeting following the filing of said appeal. In no event
shall more than 16 days elapse between the filing of such appeal and the
rendering of a decision by the Board. If no regular meeting is scheduled within
said 16-day period, the Board of Selectmen shall hold a special meeting within
said 16 days to consider and decide such appeal.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Selectmen on any
appeal regarding the denial or revocation of a license under this chapter may
appeal to the Superior Court provided such appeal is taken within 15 days from
the rendering of a decision by the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provision or condition
contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as such.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.09 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following assemblies:
   (A)   Religious services;
   (B)   Political meetings and demonstrations;
   (C)   Funerals;
   (D)   Weddings;
   (E)   Assemblies sponsored or authorized by any town agency;
   (F)   Athletic events;
   (G)   Assemblies conducted within any permanent structure; and
   (H)   Assemblies required to be licensed by other provisions of the
Connecticut General Statutes or town ordinances.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not less than $100. Each
day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 286
CHAPTER 93: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
93.01   Consumption restricted
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 CONSUMPTION RESTRICTED.
   No person shall consume alcoholic liquor, as defined in the Connecticut
General Statutes, in any of the following areas in the town, either inside a
motor vehicle or otherwise:
   (A)   In any part of the town designated as a commercial district by the
Town Zoning Commission, except as follows:
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of a permit granted therefor by
the Connecticut Liquor Control Commission; and
      (2)   On any residential property.
   (B)   On any property owned by the town, except that:
      (1)   At McCook Point Park and Beach, alcoholic liquor may be consumed in
accordance with the ordinance entitled “Ordinance Concerning Areas Under
Jurisdiction of Parks and Recreation Commission” (as codified in §
96.15 of this code of ordinances);
      (2)   The Board of Selectmen may grant a special permit for the
consumption of alcoholic liquor to any nonprofit organization on the following
terms and conditions:
         (a)   Such organization shall demonstrate that there will be no
disorderly assembly, disturbing noise, traffic control problem or interference
with the peace and safety of the inhabitants of the town;
         (b)   Such organization may be required to show evidence of financial
responsibility and insurance, and to post a bond sufficient to indemnify the
town for any expenses resulting from the use of such permit;
         (c)   The grant of such permit shall be subject to compliance with the
provisions of the Connecticut General Statutes relating to alcoholic liquor;
and
         (d)   Such permit may be revoked at any time when, in the opinion of
the Board of Selectmen or its agent, the provisions of this chapter have been
violated.
(Ord. passed 8-26-1975; Ord. passed 11-19-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 139; TM Volume 21, page 605 Amended
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $100.
(Ord. passed 8-26-1975; Ord. passed 11-19-1998)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Fair Housing Officer
   
94.02   Grievance procedure
§ 94.01 FAIR HOUSING OFFICER.
   A Fair Housing Officer shall be appointed by the First Selectman. Said
Officer shall have the responsibility and authority to administer and implement
the fair housing plan and shall perform duties which include the following:
   (A)   Keep current on all pertinent state and federal legislation relating
to fair housing;
   (B)   Disseminate information concerning the town’s commitment to fair
housing to community groups, local real estate brokers, local lending
institutions, landlords, developers, town officials and the general public;
   (C)   Participating in educational workshops or seminars concerning the
ramification of fair housing legislation and the town’s commitment to fair
housing;
   (D)   Develop and distribute the forms needed to properly file a fair
housing grievance (see §
94.02);
   (E)   Assist persons who feel they have been discriminated against, by
trying to effect voluntary compliance on the part of the landlord or seller or
by assisting them in filing a complaint with the proper state and federal
agencies (see §
94.02);
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board of Selectmen and keep the Board informed
of all grievances and other related fair housing activities; and
   (G)   Maintain a separate “fair housing” file which documents all actions
taken to affirmatively further fair housing opportunities in the town. Said
file shall be open for inspection to the public within the bounds of
confidentiality guaranteed by law.
(Ord. effective 7-10-1999)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, Page 666
§ 94.02 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated against in
an attempt to secure housing within the town may file a complaint with the Fair
Housing Officer of the town at the Town Hall. To facilitate and standardize the
complaint filing procedure, forms provided by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development shall be used and additional forms or background information
will be developed as required.
   (B)   The Fair Housing Officer shall review the complaint, and if the Fair
Housing Officer cannot effect voluntary compliance with the law on the local
level, the complaint shall be referred to the Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the State Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. The
Fair Housing Officer shall be responsible for keeping track of all referrals
and providing whatever assistance is needed by the agencies involved.
   (C)   All complaints and follow-ups shall be recorded and kept in the fair
housing file (see §
94.01(G)).
(Ord. effective 7-10-1999)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Establishment of Fire Zones
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Establishment
   
95.03   Appeal from establishment
   
95.04   Marking required
   
95.05   Parking prohibited
   
95.06   Towing authorized
   
95.07   Citation; payment in lieu of fine
Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances and Their Disposal
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Enforcement
   
95.22   Unlawful discharge
   
95.23   Immediate action required
   
95.24   Registration
   
95.25   Permit required
   
95.26   Compliance
   
95.27   Testing of tanks
   
95.28   Replacement of tanks
   
95.29   Appeals
   
95.30   Provisions not applicable for a tank capacity of not more than 1,000
gallons
   
95.31   Severability
 
   
95.99   Penalty
ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE ZONES
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE ZONE. A designated, unobstructed passageway sufficient in size to
permit free passage of fire and other emergency equipment from a public highway
to all necessary areas or portions of any private or public property as
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Whenever the Fire Marshal shall determine that the reasonable safety of
persons occupying or using any premises, public or private, having a capacity
of at least 15 persons requires the establishment of a fire zone for orderly
access of fire and other emergency equipment, he or she shall establish such
fire zone by written order and cause to be made public announcement of such
fire zone establishment. He or she shall cause a copy of such order to be
delivered to the owner or owners, or agents thereof, of any private land on
which such fire zone is established and file a copy of such order with the
First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.03 APPEAL FROM ESTABLISHMENT.
   Any person aggrieved by such order may file with the Board of Selectmen
within 30 days after date of such order written notice of appeal, setting forth
therein reasons of aggrievement. After hearing, the Board of Selectmen may
affirm, modify or vacate such order.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.04 MARKING REQUIRED.
   Upon establishment of a fire zone, the Board of Selectmen shall cause to be
erected or installed, adequate signs, marking and other devices to delineate
said fire zone.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.05 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, or permit to stand, a motor vehicle in a fire zone
which has been established in accordance with this subchapter, except when
actually picking up or discharging passengers. The registered owner of a motor
vehicle shall be presumed to be the operator of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981) Penalty, see §
95.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.06 TOWING AUTHORIZED.
   Any motor vehicle found standing in a fire zone which has been established
in accordance with this subchapter may be towed, upon direction of any
constable or state police officer, to any public or private parking facility,
and all expense of such towing and of any subsequent storage shall be borne by
the registered owner of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
§ 95.07 CITATION; PAYMENT IN LIEU OF FINE.
   Whenever a vehicle is found standing in violation of this subchapter, any
constable or state police officer shall serve upon the owner or operator of
such vehicle or place upon such vehicle a notice directing the owner or
operator thereof to appear at the Police Department prior to a time specified
in said notice. If any person receiving said notice shall appear as directed,
and shall pay an amount of $5 as specified in said notice, such payment shall
bar a prosecution for violation of the subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
UNDERGROUND STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND THEIR DISPOSAL
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAILURE. Any leak, split, blockage, malfunction, improper installation or
similar occurrence which can or does result in a discharge of a hazardous
substance out of a liquid storage system.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. All liquid, hydrocarbon products, including, but not
limited to, gasoline, fuel oil and diesel oil, and any other toxic and
corrosive chemicals, industrial waste, radioactive materials or any substance
injurious to the environment, the aquifer or waterways. This also includes
solid materials which if exposed to water will partially dissolve, forming a
hazardous liquid and any substance that is defined as hazardous by the federal
government or the State of Connecticut.
   IMPERMEABLE MATERIAL. A layer of natural and/or human-made material of
sufficient thickness, density and composition as to prevent the discharge into
the underlying ground water of any hazardous substances for a period of at
least as long as the maximum anticipated time during which the hazardous
substances will be in contact with the material.
   LIQUID STORAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of tanks, barrels, transmission
pipes, vents and pipe fittings which are used or designed to be used for the
storage and/or transmission of hazardous substances, except a sewage treatment
system approved by the Town Director of Health or his or her agent, or by the
State Department of Health.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation, or any
and all combinations of individuals acting in concert as well as individuals.
   WATERWAY. All surface waters, fresh and salt waters, within the Town of East
Lyme.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This law shall be enforced by the Building Official who is hereby
authorized to make inspections of all types of liquid storage systems
throughout the town, to solicit and maintain inventory of such systems and to
ensure that such systems conform with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board of Selectmen may adopt rules and regulations to enforce and
carry out the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.22 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge hazardous substances upon the
surface or into the subsurface land, aquifer or waterway anywhere in the town
by whatever method such discharge may occur.
   (B)   Unlawful discharge includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Failure of underground liquid storage tanks, pipes or connections;
      (2)   Failure of above-ground liquid storage systems;
      (3)   Disposal in landfills, drainage systems, any waterways or on the
land surface;
      (4)   Spills which occur during transport on public or private property;
and
      (5)   Disposal or storage of hazardous substances including, but not
limited to, contaminated material, soil, sand or gravel anywhere in the town.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see §
95.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.23 IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED.
   Should the discharge of hazardous substances from any storage system occur
as described in this subchapter, the responsible person, in addition to any
other penalty as authorized in this subchapter will be required to take
immediate action to reclaim the discharged material, restore the environment to
its original state and repair any physical damage caused by the spill,
explosion or clean-up operations.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.24 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person owning a liquid storage system must register with the
Building Official by providing a site plan of the property and a complete
description of the system, including the location, number, size, composition,
type of liquid being stored and date of original installation of tanks and
transmission pipes. Such registry must be done within one year from the
effective date of this subchapter on forms prescribed by the Building Official.
   (B)   Liquid storage systems installed in a building basement in accordance
with existing codes are exempted from this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install, or replace, any liquid storage system
without first securing a permit for the same and paying a permit fee as
established by the Board of Selectmen. The permit request shall be prepared on
forms prescribed by the Building Official and shall include any information
required by him or her including the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to repair any leak in a liquid storage system
without notifying the Building Official and the Fire Marshal within 24 hours of
discovering the leak. No permit or notification is required for mechanical
repairs.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see §
95.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.26 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All storage systems which are to be constructed or installed after the
effective date of this subchapter shall comply with the following construction,
installation and testing specifications in addition to any requirements of
state and federal law.
      (1)   All underground liquid storage systems of more than 1,000-gallon
capacity shall be of vaulted construction, equipped with a failure detection
system and protected both internally and externally from corrosion and
structural failure. Non-corrosive tanks and transmission pipes listed by
Underwriters’ Laboratories may be used in lieu of vaulted construction.
      (2)   Installation must be done strictly in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications and in accordance with installation procedures
approved by the Building Official and/or Fire Marshal. Construction may proceed
from stage to stage only upon approval by the inspecting official.
      (3)   The entire system shall be tested before it is covered as required
by the Building Official and/or Fire Marshal. If a failure is detected, work
may not proceed until the failure is repaired and the system is retested and no
additional failures are found.
   (B)   (1)   Above ground liquid storage systems above 1,000-gallon capacity
must be placed within drainage collection areas sized and designed to capture
and hold the entire contents of the largest tank of the storage system and to
facilitate the recovery of any spillage, in the event of failure. Such drainage
areas shall be constructed of impermeable material.
      (2)   Above ground storage of solid material which can produce a
hazardous liquid when it comes into contact with water, must also be stored
within a drainage area designed to collect the rain run-off and to recover the
dissolved material. Such material may be permanently roofed in lieu of a
drainage collection system, but the material must still be stored on a solid
surface impermeable to any liquid produced from the material.
      (3)   Above ground systems and above ground parts of underground systems
must be reasonably protected from damage by motor vehicles, trucks and
vandalism.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.27 TESTING OF TANKS.
   (A)   Every existing underground liquid storage system over 1,000 gallons
which does not conform on the effective date of this subchapter must be tested
for failure, using the final test in the National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA) #329 or other test of equivalent or superior accuracy as approved by the
official and in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Age of System at Registration (In Years) Year to Be Tested
1—9                                    Every 4 years
10—19                                  Every 3 years
20 or more                               Every 2 years
 
   (B)   Such testing must be performed by a qualified professional testing
service doing business in the state and the test results must be presented to
the Building Official in a signed and notarized report before December 31 of
the year indicated in the schedule.
      (1)   Fiberglass tanks shall be tested ten years after registration and
vaulted tank tests are to be waived at the discretion of the Building Official.
      (2)   If failure is detected, that part of the system which failed must
be pumped out immediately and cannot be reused until the system is repaired or
replaced as provided for in this subchapter. Recovery of the hazardous
substance shall proceed in accordance with the law.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.28 REPLACEMENT OF TANKS.
   Any replacement of underground liquid storage systems in whole or in part as
directed by the Building Official must conform with specifications for new
construction.
   (A)   Any underground liquid storage system which fails, but is less than
ten years old may be repaired at the direction of the Building Official and in
accordance with specifications approved by the Building Official. Any system
which fails and which is ten years old or more, must be replaced in accordance
with this subchapter.
   (B)   Any underground liquid storage system which has not been or intended
to be in continual use for a period of one year shall be reported within 60
days by the owner to the Building Official.
   (C)   Any underground liquid storage system which is not intended to be in
service shall comply with § 29-62-88 of the Regulations of Connecticut State
Agencies covering the storage, use and transportation of flammable liquids as
follows:
      (1)   Tanks rendered “temporarily out of service”.
         (a)   All flammable liquid that can be pumped out with the service
pump shall be removed;
         (b)   The fill line, gauge hatch and pump suction shall be capped and
secured against tampering; and
         (c)   The vent line shall be left open.
      (2)   Abandoning underground tanks in place.
         (a)   All flammable liquid shall be removed from the tank and from all
connecting lines;
         (b)   The suction, inlet gauge and vent lines shall be disconnected;
         (c)   The tank shall be flooded with water;
         (d)   The tank and any remaining pipe stubs shall be filled with an
inert solid material; and
         (e)   All connecting lines below ground level shall be capped or
plugged.
      (3)   Removal of underground tanks.
         (a)   All flammable liquid shall be removed from the tank and from
connecting lines;
         (b)   The suction, inlet, gauge and vent lines shall be disconnected;
         (c)   The tanks shall be flushed with water and rendered gas free as
indicated by combustible gas indicator;
         (d)   Inlets and outlets shall be capped or plugged and kept capped or
plugged during the transportation and storage of the tank; and
         (e)   A tank which is to be disposed of as junk shall be retested for
explosive vapors and rendered gas free. After the tank is junked and before it
is released to a junk dealer, a sufficient number of holes or openings shall be
made in it to render it unfit for further use.
   (D)   New underground liquid storage tanks not designated flammable but
hazardous will be treated in the same manner as divisions (A), (B) and (C)
above.
   (E)   Conformation with division (D) above shall be performed within 60 days
after notification of the Building Official.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.29 APPEALS.
   Anyone who wishes to appeal directives of the Building Official where such
directive was based on his or her judgment requiring the replacement of a
system, must file a written request for a hearing with the Board of Selectmen
within ten days of receipt of the directive. Failure to do so will be
considered as an agreement to perform the directed work.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.30 PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE FOR A TANK CAPACITY OF NOT MORE THAN 1,000
GALLONS.
   The provisions of §§
95.24,
95.25,
95.26 and
95.27 shall not apply to any fuel oil storage tank with a capacity of not more
than 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.31 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section and every part of each section of this subchapter is hereby
declared independent of every other section or part hereof and the finding or
holding of any section or part hereto to be void or ineffective for any cause
shall not be deemed to affect any other section or part thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 117
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
95.05 shall be fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any applicable provision of
§§
95.20 through
95.31 or failing to comply with a lawful order of the Building Official under
§§
95.20 through
95.31, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or
continues. In addition, the Building Official may declare the liquid storage
system a public nuisance or an immediate hazard and order immediate corrective
action; upon failure to take such action immediately, using town employees and
equipment or through independent contractors, and shall charge all the costs
incurred to the person whose property contains the nuisance or hazard, and to
any person whose act or omission was in violation of §§
95.20 through
95.31, who shall be jointly and severally liable.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 8-11-1981)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 115
   TM Volume 14, page 117
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
96.01   Duties and responsibilities
Areas Under Jurisdiction of Parks and Recreation Commission
   
96.15   Regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 96.01 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The responsibility for the management, control and development of all
recreational and park facilities and programs of the town, except those under
the exclusive control of the Board of Education, and for expenditures made in
connection therewith, is hereby vested in the Parks and Recreation Commission.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to enter into
agreements with the Board of Education for the use of facilities under the
exclusive control of the Board of Education.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to set reasonable
fees for the use of such facilities and participation in such programs.
   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to hire such
employees as shall be necessary for the performance of its duties.
   (E)   All ordinances relating to the McCook Point Park Commission, also
known as the Town Park Commission and the Veterans Memorial Park Committee, are
hereby rescinded.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1966)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 9, page 226
AREAS UNDER JURISDICTION OF PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 96.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to McCook Point Park and Beach, Veterans
Memorial Park, Boardwalk, Cini Park, Samuel Peretz areas and all other areas
within the town designated as under the control of the Parks and Recreation
Commission by vote of the Board of Selectmen.
   (B)   No person shall enter any area which is close to the public as plainly
designated by signs.
   (C)   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except either in
fireplaces provided for that purpose, or in portable fireplaces in areas
plainly designated for that use.
   (D)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any alcoholic
beverages in areas where it is prohibited as plainly designated by signs.
   (E)   No person shall park any motor vehicle except in areas plainly
designated by sign or other marking as parking areas.
   (F)   No person shall discard or abandon any refuse, rubbish or garbage
except in containers provided for that purpose.
   (G)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any glass
bottle or crockery in areas where it is prohibited as plainly designated by
sign.
   (H)   No person shall bring any dog (other than certified service dogs) on
to the Niantic Bay Boardwalk.
   (I)   No person shall bring any dog (other than certified service dogs) onto
any town-owned beach and McCook Point Park from Memorial Day to Labor Day.
(Ord. effective 6-19-1971; Ord. passed 12-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-20-2017)
Penalty, see §
95.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 369, Amended
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
96.15 shall be fined not more than $50.
(Ord. effective 6-19-1971; Ord. passed 12-21-2005; Ord. passed 4-20-2017)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS
Section
   
97.01   Regulating excavations, cuts, fill and change of grade in public
highways
   
97.02   Changes in grade, excavating, paving and filling
   
97.03   Designation of scenic roads
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 REGULATING EXCAVATIONS, CUTS, FILL AND CHANGE OF GRADE IN PUBLIC
HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall excavate in, fill, cut or change the grade of or cause
any excavation, fill, cut or change of grade to be made of any highway or
street maintained by the town without first having obtained a permit so to do
from the Selectmen of the town.
   (B)   No permit to excavate, fill, cut or change the grade of any such
highway or street shall be granted to any person until he or she shall have
filed with the Selectmen a surety bond in an amount equal to the cost, as
estimated by the Selectmen, of the restoration of any such highway or street to
as good a condition as it was before such excavation, fill, cut or change of
grade, with the same surface material and that he or she will comply with the
plan of the work to be done, as filed with and approved by the Selectmen, and
also that such person shall have given the Selectmen satisfactory evidence of
insurance protecting both the town and the permittee against personal injuries
and property damage in an amount to be determined by the Selectmen depending
upon the location, amount of traffic, estimated length of time the work will
require, type of material to be excavated or cut and any other conditions which
might affect the risk involved.
   (C)   As used herein highway or street shall include any portion of the
entire width of the right-of-way, including the traveled portion, the shoulders
of any unimproved or undeveloped portion of the highway or street.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to work being done by or on behalf of the
town.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1965) Penalty, see §
97.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 9, page 94
§ 97.02 CHANGES IN GRADE, EXCAVATING, PAVING AND FILLING.
   (A)   No person shall change the grade of any land, or excavate, pave or
fill any land in such a manner as to cause surface water to drain from said
land to the highway in such amounts or in such locations as to interfere with
public travel, damage the highway, collect on the highway or drain from the
highway on to land of any other person.
   (B)   No person shall change the grade of any land or excavate, pave or fill
any land in such a manner as to cause surface water to drain from said land to
the highway, without first obtaining a permit from the First Selectman. No such
permit shall be granted until and unless the First Selectman shall determine
that the work proposed will not violate division (A) above.
   (C)   Applications for such permits shall be made in such manner and form as
shall be determined by the First Selectman. Where in his or her opinion the
interests of the town make it advisable, the First Selectman may require an
engineering plan and profile at the expense of the applicant, and may require
the posting of a surety bond in an amount sufficient to protect the town.
   (D)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the action of the First
Selectman hereunder may appeal therefrom to the Board of Selectmen within 30
days from the date of the action appealed from. The appeal shall be made in
such manner and form as shall be determined by the Board of Selectmen, which
shall, within 30 days from the date of the appeal, hold a public hearing
thereon, first giving such notice as it shall consider sufficient to all
interested parties. The Board of Selectmen may approve, disapprove or modify
the action appealed from or take such other action as it shall consider
appropriate to the purposes of this section.
   (E)   The Board of Selectmen may, from time to time, set fees for such
permits.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1970) Penalty, see §
97.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 10, page 255
§ 97.03 DESIGNATION OF SCENIC ROADS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-149a, as amended,
the Planning Commission of the town (the “Commission”) may designate town
highways or portions thereof as scenic roads. No state highway or portion
thereof and no private highway or portion thereof may be designated as a scenic
road under this section.
   (B)   No highway or portion of a highway may be designated as a scenic road
unless the owners of a majority of lot frontage abutting the highway or portion
of the highway agree to the designation by filing a written statement of
approval with the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Any owner of land located within the town may file an application with
the Commission requesting that a town highway or portion thereof be designated
as a scenic road. Alternatively, the Commission by motion may initiate the
procedures to designate a town highway or portion thereof as a scenic road.
   (D)   Property owners seeking scenic road designation shall submit an
application to the Commission. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the town highway and the total length (in feet) of the
portion to be designated as a scenic road;
      (3)   A brief description of the town highway and those characteristics
of the town highway or portion thereof which meet the criteria specified in
division (H) below; and
      (4)   The names, addresses and the amount of frontage (in feet) of all
owners of lots abutting the town highway or any portion thereof proposed for
designation as a scenic road.
   (E)   Simultaneously with the filing of an application for the designation
of a scenic road with the Commission, the applicant, or the Commission if it
initiates the procedures to designate a town highway as a scenic road, shall
file with the Town Clerk written statement(s) of approval as required in
division (B) above. The statements of approval shall contain the name, mailing
address, street address, total distance of applicable lot frontage in feet and
the signature of owner(s) of a majority of the lot frontage abutting the
portion of the town highway proposed for such designation.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the written statement(s) of approval the Town Clerk
shall forward certified copies thereof to the Assessor. The Assessor shall
ascertain the ownership and the total lot frontage of the owners signing the
statement(s), and shall determine whether said total lot frontage constitutes a
majority of lot frontage abutting the highway or portion of the highway to be
designated as a scenic road. The Assessor shall report such findings to the
Commission within 14 days from the date that the Assessor receives the
statement(s) from the Town Clerk.
   (G)   (1)   Upon receipt of a report from the Assessor that the owners of a
majority of the lot frontage abutting the highway or portion of the highway to
be designated as a scenic road have signed statements of approval as required
by division (B) above, the Commission shall conduct a public hearing to
consider an application for a designation of a scenic road. The public hearing
shall commence within 65 days after the Commission’s receipt of the Assessor’s
report, and shall be completed within 35 days after it commences. The
Commission shall render a decision within 65 days after the completion of such
public hearing. The applicant, or the Commission if it initiates the scenic
road designation procedures, may consent to one or more extensions of any
period specified in this section, provided the total extension of all such
periods shall not be for longer than 65 days, or may withdraw such application.
      (2)   The Commission shall prepare a notice of the public hearing, post a
copy of the notice in the office of the Town Clerk for public viewing and shall
publish the notice in a newspaper having a general circulation in the town at
least twice, at intervals of not less than two days, the first not more than 15
days or less than ten days and the last not less than two days before the date
set for the hearing. The applicant, or the Commission when it initiates the
scenic road designation procedure, shall mail copies of the notice by way of a
certificate of mailing to the owners of all of the property having frontage
abutting the portion of the town highway proposed for designation as a scenic
road. Such mailing shall be made no later than ten days before the date of the
hearing inclusive of the date of mailing but not the date of the hearing. The
applicant, or the Commission if it initiates the scenic road designation
procedure, shall submit proof of such mailing to the Commission at or before
the commencement of the public hearing.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may approve the application as submitted or may
designate a lesser portion of the highway as a scenic road, provided that prior
to designating a town highway or any portion of a highway as a scenic road, the
Commission shall first find that the owners of a majority of the lot frontage
abutting the highway or portion of the highway to be designated as a scenic
road have signed statements of approval as required by division (B) above. The
Commission shall also find the highway or proposed portion thereof is free of
intensive commercial development and free of intensive vehicular traffic. In
addition, the Commission must find that the town highway or portion thereof
meets at least one of the following criteria:
         (a)   It offers scenic views;
         (b)   It is bordered by mature trees or stone walls;
         (c)   It blends naturally into the surrounding terrain;
         (d)   It parallels or crosses over brooks, streams, lakes or ponds;
         (e)   The traveled portion is no more than 20 feet in width; and
         (f)   It is unpaved.
      (2)   If the Commission approves the designation of a scenic road or a
lesser portion thereof, it shall state the scenic characteristics for which the
Commission determines protection is warranted.
      (3)   If the Commission fails to act on the application within the time
frames set forth in this section, the application shall be deemed to be denied
in its entirety.
   (I)   The Commission shall publish a notice of its decision designating a
scenic road in a newspaper having a general circulation within the town within
15 days after the date of the decision. The notice shall specify the highway or
portion thereof, which the Commission designates as a scenic road. If the
Commission approves the application, it shall notify the First Selectman, the
Zoning Commission, the Town Highway Superintendent, Director of Public Works
and the Town Tree Warden of the designation within 15 days after the date of
the decision, specifying the scenic characteristics for which the Commission
determines protection is warranted. The town shall create and maintain a map
that depicts the name, location and distance (in feet) of any town highway
designated as a scenic road. Any failure to provide such notice to such town
officials or to create or maintain such map shall not affect the validity of
the designation.
   (J)   Any person aggrieved by a designation of a town highway or portion
thereof as a scenic road pursuant to this section, may appeal such designation
in the same manner and utilizing the same standards of review provided for
appeals from the decisions of the Commission under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-8.
   (K)   (1)   A scenic road designation shall not affect the town’s obligation
to maintain and repair such road by such methods and in such a manner as may be
necessary to keep the road in a safe and passable condition at all times. Such
work shall as nearly as practicable preserve the scenic characteristics of the
highway for which the Commission determines protection is warranted. Such work
may be performed by or on behalf of the town without prior approval of the
Commission.
      (2)   Any tree trimming, excavating or maintenance work performed in a
designated scenic road by or on behalf of public service companies, as more
particularly described in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 16-229, 16-234 and 16-235, may be
performed without prior approval of the Commission.
   (L)   (1)   No road which has been designated as a scenic road shall be
altered or improved, including, but not limited to, widening of the right-of-
way or the travel portion of the road, changes of grade or roadway surface
treatment, removal of stone bridges, straightening, removal of stone walls, or
removal of mature trees, except for good cause determined by the Commission.
The Commission may hold a public hearing on any such proposed alterations or
improvements if it deems that the public interest might be best served by doing
so.
      (2)   This division (L) is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the
requirements for such work as more particularly set forth in the following
ordinances:
         (a)   “Ordinance Regulating Excavations, Cuts, Fill and Change of
Grade in Public Highways”, adopted January 28, 1965, as codified in §
97.01 of this code of ordinances;
         (b)   “Ordinance Concerning Change in Grade, Excavating, Paving and
Filling”, adopted May 2, 1970, as codified in §
97.02 of this code of ordinances; and
         (c)   “Ordinance Concerning Damage to Highways”, adopted September 21,
1975, as codified in §
150.070 of this code of ordinances.
   (M)   A scenic road designation may be rescinded by the Commission, using
the same procedures provided herein for designation of a scenic road and having
written concurrence of the owners of a majority of lot frontage abutting the
highway or portion of the highway.
(Ord. passed 5-30-2009; Ord. effective 7-1-2011)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
97.01 may be fined not more than $100 a day for each day that a violation shall
exist.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
97.02 shall be fined not more than $100 for each day that the violation shall
continue.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1965; Ord. passed 5-2-1970)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 9, page 94; TM Volume 10, page 255
CHAPTER 98: ANIMALS
Section
   
98.01   Removal of animal feces from town property
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL FECES FROM TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person, whose dog or other domesticated animal defecates on town-
owned property or a public highway within the town, shall dispose of the animal
feces left by that animal in a proper receptacle.
   (B)   Any person who walks or otherwise brings a dog or other domesticated
animal onto town-owned property or onto a public highway within the town, must
be prepared to dispose of said animal’s feces by whatever means necessary,
which may include carrying plastic bags, a pooper scooper or other necessary
tools to remove said waste.
   (C)   The provision of this section shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying any blind person.
(Ord. effective 10-5-1995) Penalty, see §
98.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone who shall violate §
98.01 shall be fined the sum of not more than $50 for each violation.
(Ord. effective 10-5-1995)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 21, page 99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
112.   PEDDLING
      
113.   SOLICITATION OF CHARITABLE FUNDS
      
114.   BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Notice of Intent to Establish a Trade,
Manufacture, Business or Profession
   
110.01   Introduction
   
110.02   Notification
   
110.03   Information required
   
110.04   Town action
 
   
110.99   Penalty
NOTICE OF INTENT TO ESTABLISH A TRADE, MANUFACTURE, BUSINESS
OR PROFESSION
§ 110.01 INTRODUCTION.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-194 and 7-148(c)(7)(H)(ii), and in order
to facilitate the town’s ability to regulate and prohibit the carrying on
within the municipality of any trade, manufacture, business or profession which
is or may be so carried on as to prejudice the public health, or lead to fraud
or cheating, or be dangerous to or constitute an unreasonable annoyance to,
those living or owning property in the town, and in order to furnish notice to
the Zoning Enforcement Officer, Fire Marshal, Tax Assessor and Director of
Health of the establishment of new businesses, this chapter is hereby enacted.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 380
§ 110.02 NOTIFICATION.
   Every person intending to establish any trade, manufacture, business or
profession within the town must notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer of such
intent not less then ten calendar days prior to commencing operations. Such
notification will not be considered given unless and until it is received by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 380
§ 110.03 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The notice of intent shall identify the owner of the business, the location
of the business premises by street address, the nature of the business, the
anticipated hours of its operation and such other information as may be
appropriate to carry out the purpose of this chapter. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer may provide a form for such notice.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 380
§ 110.04 TOWN ACTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the required notice, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall give notice of such information to the Fire Marshal, Tax Assessor,
Director of Health and, if requested, to any other town official.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to confer upon the Zoning
Enforcement Officer any authority or discretion to deny any person the right to
conduct any business, trade, profession or manufacturing operation within the
town which is otherwise lawful under federal, state and local law.
   (C)   The giving of a notice of intent pursuant to this chapter is for the
purpose of notification only and no action or failure to act with respect to
the receipt of such notice by the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be deemed to
authorize the establishment or operation of any such business, trade,
profession or manufacturing operation within the town in violation of any
federal, state or local statute, regulation, ordinance or other law.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 380
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to give the required notice within the time period stated in §
110.02 shall result in a fine of not more than $99.
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 15, page 380
CHAPTER 111: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
Sale of Alcoholic Liquor
   
111.01   Sale of alcoholic liquor
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
§ 111.01 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   The sale of alcoholic liquor is allowed on Sunday in the town as permitted
by the General Statutes of the state in all places operated under hotel,
restaurant and club permits as issued by the Liquor Control Commission of the
state.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1938)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 5, page 244
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLING
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Limitations
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   License fees
   
112.05   Application
   
112.06   Processing
   
112.07   Use of streets
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLING. Includes traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or any other
type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from street to
street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, books,
magazines, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or
provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers, or without traveling from place to place,
selling or offering the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle,
railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance on public or private property; and
further provided that soliciting orders and as a separate transaction making
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed PEDDLING subject to the provisions
of this chapter. The word PEDDLING shall include the words “hawk” and “vend.”
However, the word PEDDLING shall not include solicitation of funds by any
charitable organization as defined in the ordinance entitled “Ordinance
Concerning Solicitation of Charitable Funds” (as codified in Chapter 113 of
this code of ordinances).
   PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm or corporation, association, club, co-partnership or society,
or any other organization.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.02 LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall peddle within the limits of the following highways or at any
house or other building having frontage on such highway:
   (A)   The portion of Main Street from the Niantic River Bridge to Black
Point Road; and
   (B)   The portion of Pennsylvania Avenue from Main Street to Roxbury Road.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024) Penalty,
see §
112.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   With respect to all other highways, no person except as otherwise authorized
by law, shall peddle upon any of the public highways of the town, or from house
to house within the town, unless he or she shall have obtained a license
pursuant to §
112.04.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024) Penalty,
see §
112.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The Chief of Police of the town is authorized to issue licenses to peddle,
upon the payment of the following license fees:
   (A)   For each foot peddler, $10 per day;
   (B)   For each organization of or company employing peddlers, at the option
of such organization or company in lieu of the license fee established by
division (A) above, $40 per week; and
   (C)   For each peddler, using a team or vehicle, $45 per year.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.05 APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issue of any license, the applicant shall file a sworn written
application in duplicate with the Chief of Police which must contain or be
accompanied by the following data:
   (A)   Name and description of applicant, with permanent home address and
local address, if any;
   (B)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold;
   (C)   If employed, name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (D)   The length of time for which the right to do solicitation is desired,
not to exceed, in any event, a period of 12 months;
   (E)   The proposed method of contacting homeowners prior to initiating
solicitation;
   (F)   The place from which ordered goods are to be delivered;
   (G)   The proposed method of delivery;
   (H)   A copy of any and all brochures, order and/or contract forms, or other
material to be used in connection with the solicitation;
   (I)   A two-inch square photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days;
   (J)   The names of at least two property owners of the town who will certify
to the applicant's good character and business responsibility or in lieu of the
names of references, such other evidence as to the good characters and business
responsibility of the applicant, as will enable verification of such character
and business responsibility;
   (K)   The towns or locations, within or without the state, if any, where the
applicant has conducted such solicitation prior to coming to the town;
   (L)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense, and the penalty assessed therefore; and
   (M)   An agreement to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.06 PROCESSING.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Chief of Police of the original application, he or
she will have ten days within which to determine whether any reason exists for
denial of the requested license. In making such evaluation, the determination
of qualification shall be governed by the following standards (as applied to
the applicant's principal or employer, or, if there be more than one applicant,
members of that group):
      (1)   Veracity of statements in the application;
      (2)   Financial solvency; compliance with disclosure and rescission laws;
      (3)   Prior claims or fraudulent practices, misrepresentations, trespass,
breach of the peace or other unlawful conduct, or intimidating tactics, in the
course of making home solicitations; or
      (4)   Any similar information which indicates that the applicant lacks
the moral or business character to be permitted to conduct home solicitations.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the evaluation, the applicant shall be endorsed for
approval or denial.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.07 USE OF STREETS.
   No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall any be
permitted to operate in any congested area where peddling might impede or
inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024) Penalty,
see §
112.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $100 and each day of a continuing violation shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 269
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITATION OF CHARITABLE FUNDS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required
   
113.03   Permit issuance
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Solicitation of Charitable Funds Act (Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter
299a, Revision of 1958, as amended from time to time).
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any benevolent, educational, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic or eleemosynary person or one holding itself out to be a charitable
organization or one which has received a tax exemption from the United States
government or any state or municipality by reason of its charitable nature or
any person, other than a professional fund-raising counsel or professional
solicitor, who solicits or obtains contributions solicited from the public for
charitable purposes.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 223
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No charitable organization and no religious organization shall solicit
contributions within the town, or have funds solicited on its behalf, unless
prior to any solicitation, it obtains a permit from the First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976) Penalty, see §
113.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 223
§ 113.03 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Any applying charitable organization which is exempt from registration
requirements under the Act, and any charitable organization which has filed a
current registration statement and is in good standing with the State
Department of Consumer Protection shall, after verification of its status, be
issued a permit for a period not to exceed one year. Any person applying for a
religious organization shall, after establishing his or her identity and his or
her authority to act for such religious organization, be issued a permit for a
period not to exceed one year.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 223
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $100 for each such offense. Any violation of the provisions of
this chapter or of the Act shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of a
permit.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 12, page 223
CHAPTER 114: BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of state law
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-170 to 7-186, inclusive, as amended,
providing for the operation of bazaars and raffles in the town, are adopted.
(Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, pages 231 233
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Bathing and dressing
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 BATHING AND DRESSING.
   (A)   No person shall bathe in any public place or be upon any bathing beach
or upon any highway in the town without being properly clothed.
   (B)   No person shall dress or undress on any highway or in any public place
or in an automobile in any public place or on any private property without the
owner’s permission.
   (C)   No person shall sleep in any motor vehicle or use such vehicle for
sleeping quarters when said vehicle is on any highway or in any public parking
place in said town.
   (D)   No person shall sleep or make one’s bed on any public ground, beach,
park or highway within said town.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 103
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $25.
(Ord. passed 8-4-1947)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 103
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   HARBOR MANAGEMENT
      
153.   INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES
      
154.   HISTORIC PROPERTIES
      
155.   PLANNING COMMISSION, ZONING COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Penalties for violation of the State Building Code and orders issued
thereunder
   
150.002   Exempting certain municipal property from zoning regulations
   
150.003   Adopting the provisions of the Municipal Planning Act
   
150.004   Adopting the Zoning Enabling Act
   
150.005   Demolition delay
Fees
   
150.015   Fees for building and demolition permits
   
150.016   Fees for Fire Marshal permits and inspections
Blight
   
150.030   Purpose
   
150.031   Definitions
   
150.032   Exemptions
   
150.033   Prohibition
   
150.034   Special consideration
   
150.035   Notice of blight violation
   
150.036   Enforcement citation
   
150.037   Recording of lien
   
150.038   Municipal performance to correct; costs
   
150.039   Exceptions and pending approvals
   
150.040   Conflict and separability
Posting and Displaying Numbers on Buildings
   
150.055   Posting and displaying numbers on buildings
Damage to Highways
   
150.070   Damage to highways
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF THE STATE BUILDING CODE AND ORDERS ISSUED
THEREUNDER.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision of the State Building Code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of any approved
plan or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of the Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding one
year, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any work in or about the building after
having been served with a stop order, except such work as he or she is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions, shall be liable to a
fine of not less than $25 or more than $500. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. effective 4-15-1972)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 11, page 91
§ 150.002 EXEMPTING CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY FROM ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-2, Revision of 1958 as amended, property of
the town now or hereafter used for the town water system or the town sewer
system is exempt from regulation by the town zoning regulations. This exemption
shall not be applicable to any building to be constructed for purposes of
administrative offices, garage or maintenance facility for either system.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1991)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 18, page 108
§ 150.003 ADOPTING THE PROVISIONS OF THE MUNICIPAL PLANNING ACT.
   Adopting the provisions of the Municipal Planning Act or Commission as is
set out by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 45, §§ 853 through 862 inclusive, Revision
of 1949.
(Res. passed 6-7-1951)
§ 150.004 ADOPTING THE ZONING ENABLING ACT.
   Adopting the provisions of the Zoning Enabling Act entitled “Public Act No.
418 enacted by the General Assembly”, which act becomes effective October 1,
1947.
(Res. passed 10-6-1947)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 6, page 113
§ 150.005 DEMOLITION DELAY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-406, there shall be a 90-day waiting
period before a permit to demolish any structure located in the town may be
issued. The 90-day waiting period shall commence upon the filing of a
demolition permit application with the Building Department.
   (B)   The applicant for a demolition permit must install, within seven
business days of submitting the application, a sign provided by the building
department, upon submission of a $200 deposit, on the front wall of the
structure, or such other location as directed by the Building Official. The
sign must remain in place until such time that the waiting period has expired.
   (C)   Within seven days of the filing of the application, the Building
Official shall determine if the structure proposed for demolition is included
in the historic property inventory, as it may be amended from time to time. If
the structure is included in the inventory, the Building Official shall notify
the Historic Properties Commission in writing within seven business days of
such determination. If the structure is not included in the inventory, the
Building Official may issue the permit forthwith.
   (D)   Upon notification as set forth above, the Commission shall review the
application at its next scheduled meeting. The Commission may waive the balance
of the waiting period or may determine that the waiting period must remain in
effect. The Commission shall provide notice of its decision to the applicant
and the Building Official in writing within seven business days of said
decision.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2018)
FEES
§ 150.015 FEES FOR BUILDING AND DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   Residential building. Based on the following valuation formula (does
not include plumbing, heating, and electrical work for new homes, accessory
buildings, alterations, additions, renovations and swimming pools):
Unfinished accessory buildings (under 600 $25 per square foot of building area
square feet)
Unfinished accessory buildings (over 600  $55 per square foot
square feet)
In-ground pools                           $15 per square foot
Above-ground pools                        $50 per square foot
Finish existing basement with bathroom    $40 per square foot of building area
Finish existing basement without bathroom $50 per square foot of building area
Siding and roofing                        $500 per square foot
Decks                                     $55 per square foot
Covered porches/decks                     $65 per square foot
Interior alterations or renovations       $55 per square foot of building area
New homes                                 $150 per square foot of building area
 
   (B)   Commercial building. Based on the following valuation formulas:
 
Renovations in existing buildings $55 per square foot of building area
                                  As per current International Code Council fee
                                  schedule or contact amount (this does not
New commercial buildings          include sprinklers, commercial kitchen hoods,
                                  electrical wiring, alarm systems, plumbing
                                  and/or mechanical equipment includes but not
                                  limited to propane tanks or gas unit heaters)
 
   (C)   Building permit fee rule summary.
      (1)   Fifteen per thousand or portion thereof, in value, with a minimum
fee of $30 for the first thousand. As of July 1, 2010, $0.26 per thousand for
State Education Fee. Permit fee includes Certificate of Approval.
      (2)   Certificate of Occupancy, residential: $50.
      (3)   Certificate of Occupancy, commercial: $100.
      (4)   Plan review fee, commercial projects over $500,000 in construction
cost based on the current ICC fee schedule.
      (5)   In the event of permit expiration of cancellation, applicant may
request in writing an 80% refund of the building permit fee. Twenty-percent
plan review fee is nonrefundable.
      (6)   Demolition permit fee is $100.
      (7)   Refundable deposit for demolition sign: $300.
      (8)   A re-inspection fee of $50 will be charged to the property owner or
contractor for any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Failure to comply with building code requirements that were
cited during a previous inspection;
         (b)   If the work to be re-inspected is not ready for inspection upon
arrival of the building inspector or assistant building inspector;
         (c)   If no one is present to meet the inspector and prior
arrangements have not been made. The inspector at his or her discretion may
waive the fee if an emergency situation is demonstrated; and/or
         (d)   If the scope of work has changed and prior approval was not
obtained from the building official. The fee must be paid prior to scheduling
another inspection.
(Ord. passed 11-26-1990; Ord. passed 3-30-1995; Ord. passed 6-15-2001; Ord.
passed 5-15-2008; Ord. passed 5-18-2015; Ord. effective 1-30-2016; Ord. passed
2-21-2018; Ord. passed 4-19-2023; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 17, page 370, Amended; TM Volume 21, page 9; TM Volume 22, page
787, Amended; TM Volume 23, page 233; TM Volume 23, page 508, Amended
§ 150.016 FEES FOR FIRE MARSHAL PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   No building or structure subject to the Connecticut State Fire
Safety Code and/or State Fire Prevention Code shall be constructed, used,
occupied, enlarged, altered or repaired unless a permit has been granted for
said activity by the Fire Marshal.
      (2)   No person shall undertake any of the operations or activities
described in division (B)(3) until such person shall have obtained a permit
from the Fire Marshal. Said permit shall be valid for 12 months from the date
of issue. No continuation, expansion, diminution or modification of said
operations shall be undertaken without obtaining a permit from the Fire
Marshal.
      (3)   No person shall install, enlarge, alter, remove, repair or replace
any fire protection system in any building or structure subject to the
Connecticut State Fire Safety Code and/or State Fire Prevention Code, until
such person shall have obtained a permit from the Fire Marshal.
      (4)   The permit(s) required pursuant to this section shall be required
in addition to any other permits or licenses required by federal, state or
local law.
   (B)   Schedule of fees.
      (1)   The fee for plan reviews for new construction, renovations,
additions or modernization of buildings or structures shall be at the following
rates. For purposes of this section, "fast track" is an expedited plan review
which will be conducted in one week or less, subject to staff availability.
         (a)   Fire plan review (not including R-3 occupancies). 65% of the
building permit fee or 100% for fast track review.
         (b)   Mechanical plan review (fire protection systems). 100% of the
building permit fee or 135% for fast track review.
         (c)   Electrical plan review. 35% of the building permit fee or 70%
for fast track review.
      (2)   The fee for field inspections, approval and acceptance of new
construction, renovations, additions or modernization of multifamily
residential (not including R-3 occupancies) and commercial buildings or
structures associated with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be
at the following rates:
Estimated Construction Cost (From Building Permit Application) Fee Formula
Estimated Construction Cost (From Fee Formula
Building Permit Application)
$1 to $500                        $10.41
                                  $10.41 for the first $500 plus $0.26 for
$501 to $2,000                    each additional $100 or fraction thereof
                                  up to and including $2,000
                                  $14.31 for the first $2,000 plus $1.04 for
$2,001 to $25,000                 each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
                                  up to and including $25,000
                                  $38.25 for the first $25,000 plus $0.78
$25,001 to $50,000                for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                  thereof up to and including $50,000
                                  $57.77 for the first $50,000 plus $0.52
$50,001 to $100,000               for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                  thereof up to and including $100,000
                                  $83.80 for the first $100,000 plus $0.46
$100,001 to $500,000              for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                  thereof up to and including $500,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000            $271.18 for the first $500,000 plus $0.42
                                  for each additional $1,000
                                  $479.38 for the first $1,000,000 plus
$1,000,001 and up                 $0.26 for each additional $1,000 or
                                  fraction thereof
Manufactured structures setup fee $10.41 per section, with a minimum fee of
                                  $20.82 per permit
 
      (3)   Any person engaged in any of the following operations and/or
occupancies shall obtain periodic inspection thereof according to the schedule
set forth in C.G.S. § 29-305 as that section may be amended or recodified from
time to time. Single-use inspections shall be valid only for a one-time event
at a single venue. Multi-use inspections shall be valid for 12 months from date
of issue and shall apply to multiple venues if the inspected configuration or
process does not change. All inspections include both fire permit and fire
inspection. The fee(s) for the annual permit required pursuant to division (A)
(2), including such inspection(s), shall be as follows:
Operation Permit Fee Table
Operations and Materials Permit Required Permit Fee
Operation Permit Fee Table
Operations and Materials   Permit Required             Permit Fee
Aircraft hangars           For servicing or repairing  $100 per year
                           aircraft
Airport terminal buildings For operation               $100 per year
Ambulatory health care     To operate an ambulatory    See Occupancy Permit Fee
occupancy                  health care occupancy       Table
Ammonium nitrate           For storage                 $250 per year
Apartment buildings and    To operate an apartment     See Occupancy Permit Fee
dormitories                building or dormitory       Table
Automobile wrecking yards  To operate automobile       $100 per year
                           wrecking yards
                           To operate stationary lead-
                           acid battery systems having
                           an electrolyte capacity of
Battery system             more than 100 gallon (379   $75 per year
                           liters) in sprinklered
                           buildings or 50 gallon (189
                           liters) in nonsprinklered
                           buildings
Business occupancies       To operate a business       See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           To use in connection with
Candles, open flames, and  assembly areas, dining      $30, single use; $60,
portable cooking           areas of restaurants, or    multi-use
                           drinking establishments
Cellulose nitrate film     For storage, handling, or   $100 per year
                           use
Cleanrooms                 For operation               $150 per year
Combustible material       To store more than 2,500    $250 per year
storage                    ft3 (70.8 m3) gross volume
Commercial rubbish-        To operate                  $150 per year
handling operation
                           For the sale, on-site
Consumer fireworks (1.4G)  handling, manufacture, and  $150 per year
                           storage of consumer
                           fireworks (1.4G)
                           Annual requirement for
                           facilities that utilize
Covered mall buildings     mall area for exhibits or   $250 per year
                           displays with four
                           conditions
Cutting and welding        For operations within a     $30, single use; $60,
operation                  jurisdiction                multi-use
Day-care occupancies       To operate a day-care       See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           To engage in business of
Dry-cleaning plants        dry cleaning or to change   $180 per year
                           to a more hazardous
                           cleaning solvent
                           To operate a grain
                           elevator, flour mill,
Dust-producing operations  starch mill, feed mill, or  $250 per year
                           plant pulverizing aluminum,
                           coal, cocoa, magnesium,
                           spices, or sugar, etc.
Educational occupancy      To operate an educational   See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           For operation of all
Exhibit and trade shows    exhibits and trade shows    $250 per event
                           held within a jurisdiction
Fairs, no rides            To conduct the events       $50 per event
Flame effects              Use of flame effects before $180 per event
                           an audience
Health care facility       To operate a health care    See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           To use any building or
High-piled combustible     portion thereof as a high-
storage                    piled storage area          $250 per year
                           exceeding 500 ft2 (46.45
                           m2)
                           For hot work; for
                           additional permit
Hot work operations        requirements for hot work   $30, single use; $60,
                           operations, see 41.1.5      multi-use
                           Editor s note: See Uniform
                           Fire Code
Hotels and bed-and-        To operate a hotel, motel   See Occupancy Permit Fee
breakfast establishment    or bed and breakfast        Table
                           establishment
Industrial occupancies     To operate an industrial    See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           For operation of industrial
Industrial ovens and       ovens and furnaces covered  $100 per year
furnaces                   by Chapter 51 Editor s
                           Note: See Uniform Fire Code
Lumberyards and            For storage of lumber
woodworking plants         exceeding 100,000 board     $250 per year
                           feet
Membrane structures,       For construction, location,
tents, and canopies-       erection, or placement      $100 per structure
permanent
                           To operate an air-supported
                           temporary membrane
                           structure or tent having an
Membrane structures,       area in excess of 200 ft2
tents, and canopies -      (18.6 m2) or a canopy in    $50, single use;
temporary                  excess of 400 ft2 (37.2 m2) $100, multi-use
                           Exception: temporary
                           membrane structures, tents,
                           or canopy structures used
                           exclusively for camping
Mercantile occupancies     To operate a mercantile     See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           For operation and
Organic coatings           maintenance of a facility   $150 per year
                           that manufactures organic
                           coatings
Places of assembly,        To operate a place of       See Occupancy Permit Fee
including special          assembly                    Table
amusement buildings
Propane filing station     Where cylinder refilling    $50 per year
                           takes place
                           Inspection of all propane
Propane tank installation  installation, residential   $20 for permit
                           and commercial
Propane tank use at events Tanks used at events or     $20 per tank
                           fairs
Pyrotechnics before a      For the display and use of
proximate audience         pyrotechnic materials       $150 per event
                           before a proximate audience
                           To operate a mechanical
Refrigeration equipment    refrigeration unit or       $50 per year
                           system
Repair garages and service For operation of service    $50 per year
stations                   stations and repair garages
Residential board and care To operate a residential    See Occupancy Permit Fee
occupancies                board and care occupancy    Table
Rocketry manufacturing     For the manufacturing of    $250 per year
                           model rocket motors
Rooftop heliports          For operation of a rooftop  $250 per year
                           heliport
                           For the location and
Special outdoor events,    operation of special        $60 per event
carnivals, and fairs       outdoor events, carnivals,
                           and fairs
Special structures and     To operate special          See Occupancy Permit Fee
high-rise buildings        structures and high-rise    Table
                           buildings
Storage occupancies        To operate a storage        See Occupancy Permit Fee
                           occupancy                   Table
                           For placement of a tar
Tar kettles                kettle, placement shall be  $30, single use;
                           obtained prior to the       $60, multi-use
                           placement of a tar kettle
                           For operation and
Tire-rebuilding plants     maintenance of a tire-      $150 per year
                           rebuilding plant
                           To use an open area or
Tire storage               portion thereof to store    $150 per year
                           tires in excess of 1,000
                           ft3 (28.3 m3)
Torch-applied roofing      For the use of a torch for  $30, single use;
operation                  application of roofing      $60, multi-use
                           materials
Wildland fire-prone areas  For use of hazardous areas  $x per year
                           within fire-prone areas
                           To store chips, hogged
Wood products              material, lumber, or        $150 per year
                           plywood in excess of 200
                           ft3 (5.7 m3)
 
Occupancy Permit Fee Table
 Occupancy Group 1  Occupancy Group 2
 Annual Renewal     Biannual Renewal H- Occupancy Group 3 Occupancy Group 4
 A, E, H-1, I-1 and 2, I- 3, I-4, B-    Triennial Renewal Quadrennial Renewal
 R                  Medical and B-      B, H-3, M, S-1    F-1, F- 2, H-4, H-5,
 (Not including R-  College                               S-2 and U
 3 occupancies)
Occupancy Permit Fee Table
                Occupancy Group
                1 Annual        Occupancy Group                 Occupancy Group
                Renewal         2 Biannual      Occupancy Group 4 Quadrennial
                A, E, H-1, I-   Renewal H-2, I- 3 Triennial     Renewal F-1, F-
                1 and R         3, I-4, B-      Renewal B, H-3, 2, H-4, H-5, S-
                (Not including  Medical and B-  M, S-1          2 and U
                R-              College
                3 occupancies)
0 to 3,000      $60             $60             $60             $60
square feet
3,001 to 5,000  $95             $95             $95             $95
square feet
5,001 to 7,500  $125            $125            $125            $125
square feet
7,501 to 10,000 $135            $135            $135            $135
square feet
10,001 to
12,500 square   $150            $150            $150            $150
feet
12,501 to
15,000 square   $170            $170            $170            $170
feet
15,001 to
17,500 square   $180            $180            $180            $180
feet
17,501 to
20,000 square   $190            $190            $190            $190
feet
20,001 to
30,000 square   $205            $205            $205            $205
feet
30,001 to
40,000 square   $230            $230            $230            $230
feet
40,001 to
50,000 square   $245            $245            $245            $245
feet
50,001 to
60,000 square   $260            $260            $260            $260
feet
60,001 to
70,000 square   $275            $275            $275            $275
feet
70,001 to
100,000 square  $285            $285            $285            $285
feet
100,001 to
150,000 square  $305            $305            $305            $305
feet
150,001 to
200,000 square  $340            $340            $340            $340
feet
 
      (4)   All permit fees established pursuant to this section are due when
an application is submitted to the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Penalties for offenses.
      (1)   Any person who commences any work which is subject to the permit
requirements of division (A)(1) or (2) without first obtaining a permit shall
be required to pay a penalty of $500 in addition to the permit fee otherwise
applicable. No such penalty shall be imposed upon a person who commences
emergency repair work without a permit, provided that a permit is sought
promptly thereafter.
      (2)   Any person who conducts any operation which is subject to the
permit requirements of division (A)(2) without first obtaining a permit shall
be required to pay a penalty equal to the amount of the permit fee otherwise
applicable. Said penalty shall be payable in addition to the required permit
fee. No such penalty shall be imposed upon a person who commences emergency
repair work without a permit provided that a permit is sought promptly
thereafter.
   (D)   Penalties for nonpayment. Failure to pay fees as prescribed in this
chapter may result in an injunction to cease and desist and a penalty of
interest on delinquent bills will be charged at the rate of 1½% per month from
the due date (18% per annum). For purposes of this section the "due date" shall
be 15 days from the date the Fire Marshal issues a bill. No additional permits
will be issued regarding any property until the fees are paid in full.
Emergency work will be considered if it poses a threat to life safety. The Fire
Marshal may choose to write infractions for operating without a town permit in
accordance with the Fire Prevention Code.
   (E)   Agencies exempt from fees; exception. Agencies of the Town of East
Lyme and the East Lyme Board of Education shall be required to obtain all
permits and/or inspections required pursuant to this section but all fees
associated therewith shall be waived. The First Selectman may waive any permit
fee, in whole or in part, for any work to be done by or for a non-profit
organization, when the First Selectman deems it in the public interest to do
so.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2023)
BLIGHT
§ 150.030 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority granted by the
Connecticut General Statutes, including, without limitation, Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv), as amended by Public Act 12-146, §§ 2 and 4; Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 148-o(b) and Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits any owner, occupant, agent, tenant and/or
person in control of real property located in the town, from allowing,
creating, maintaining or causing to be created or maintained blighted premises.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to public and private property, regardless
of principal or accessory uses, and is intended to protect, preserve and
promote public health, safety and welfare, including the preservation of
property values.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHT ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A town official and/or employee designated by
the Board of Selectmen to enforce this subchapter and to issue citations and/or
take other actions he or she deems necessary to compel compliance with it.
   BLIGHT HEARING CITATION OFFICER. An official appointed by the Board of
Selectmen who is not a town employee who will preside over blight citation
hearings, issue decisions and if necessary, convert assessments into judgments
in the State Superior Court.
   BLIGHTED PREMISES. Any building, structure or parcel of land where at least
one of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   A condition exists that poses a serious or immediate threat to the
health, safety or general welfare of the community;
      (2)   A building or structure is a fire hazard; or
      (3)   The property is in a state of disrepair or is becoming dilapidated.
STATE OF DISREPAIR or BECOMING DILAPIDATED shall mean in a physically
deteriorating condition causing unsafe or unsanitary conditions or a nuisance
to the general public and be evidenced by one or more of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Missing, broken or boarded up windows and doors longer than six
months;
         (b)   Collapsing or missing exterior walls or roof, or other exterior
features including, but not necessarily limited to, stairs, porches, railings,
hatchways, chimneys or floors;
         (c)   Seriously damaged or missing siding or roofing;
         (d)   Unrepaired fire or water damage longer than six months;
         (e)   Rodent harborage and/or infestation;
         (f)   Persistent household garbage or trash on the property;
         (g)   Abandoned or unused objects such as automobiles, boats and
recreation vehicles which are inoperable or unregistered or in an obvious state
of disrepair;
         (h)   Parking lots in excess of ten parking spaces in a state of
disrepair or abandonment evidenced, for example, by cracks, potholes,
overgrowth of vegetation within the surface, pavement or macadam, or within
medians and buffers;
         (i)   Shrubs, hedges, grass, plants, weeds or any other vegetation
that have been left to grow in an unkempt manner that are covering or blocking
means of egress or access to any building or that are blocking, interfering
with, or otherwise obstructing any sightline, road sign or emergency access to
or at the property, when viewed from any property line. Maintained gardens,
flower beds and xeriscape landscaping as part of a landscape design are
excluded from enforcement under this division (3)(i);
         (j)   The overall condition of the property structure and/or grounds
causes an unreasonable impact on the value of neighboring properties; and
         (k)   Vacant buildings or structure left unsecured or unguarded
against unauthorized entry.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.032 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following properties shall be exempt from this subchapter:
   (A)   Farms as defined in the town zoning regulations: A tract of land used
for necessary farm buildings in connection with the raising and/or caring for
agricultural, livestock, poultry or dairy products, but excluding the raising
of fur bearing animals and the maintaining of dog kennels; and
   (B)   Historic properties as defined in the town ordinance entitled
“Ordinance Designating Historic Properties and Establishing a Historic
Properties Commission” as codified in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.033 PROHIBITION.
   No owner, agent, occupant and/or a tenant required by a lease to maintain a
property, and/or any person in control of real property located in the town
shall allow, maintain or cause to be maintained a blighted premises.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.034 SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Special consideration may be given to individuals that are disabled,
elderly or low income in the town’s effort to correct housing blight. If an
individual cannot maintain a reasonable level of upkeep of his or her owner-
occupied residence because the individual is disabled, elderly or low income,
and no capable individual resides in the residence, the town may give said
individual a reasonable amount of time to correct the problem, the duration of
which shall be in the discretion of the Blight Enforcement Officer. If needed,
assistance in finding solutions will be offered by the town.
   (B)   (1)   CAPABLE INDIVIDUAL shall mean a person who can be reasonably
expected to perform maintenance and yard work around a property or premises.
This shall include children above 16 years of age, without a physical or mental
disability as defined herein.
      (2)   DISABLED INDIVIDUAL shall mean, in the case of an owner-occupied
residence, an individual who has a disability meeting the definitions for the
mental or physical disability as defined under the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, and does not have a household member capable of providing the
necessary maintenance.
      (3)   ELDERLY INDIVIDUAL shall mean an individual over the age of 65, who
does not have a household member capable of providing the necessary
maintenance.
      (4)   LOW INCOME INDIVIDUAL shall mean, in the case of an owner-occupied
residence, an individual, or where more than one person resides in the
premises, a family unit, that has an income below the highest level of
“qualifying income” established by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-170d(a)(3).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.035 NOTICE OF BLIGHT VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Blight Enforcement Officer shall give written notice of a
violation of this subchapter to the owner and occupant of the premises and may
give written notice to his or her agent(s), and/or any other person responsible
for the blighted premises. The notice should be mailed by both certified mail,
return receipt requested, and regular mail to the last known address of the
person to whom it is directed, to the owner of the property at the last known
address on file in the Tax Collector’s records and a copy by first class mail
to any lienholder’s current or last known address pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 7-148gg.
   (B)   Such notice shall state the violation and demand its abatement within
60 days. If the violation is not corrected at the end of the 60-day period, the
Blight Enforcement Officer may issue an enforcement citation and/or take other
enforcement action as specified in §
150.036.
   (C)   Any person who is a new owner or new occupant of blighted premises
shall, upon request in writing to the Blight Enforcement Officer, be granted a
30-day extension of the notice and opportunity to remediate. For purposes of
this subchapter, NEW OWNER shall mean any person or entity who has taken title
to a property within 30 days of the notice of blight violation, and NEW
OCCUPANT shall mean any person who has taken occupancy of a property within 30
days of said notice.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.036 ENFORCEMENT CITATION.
   (A)   A citation hearing procedure per Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c is hereby
established for purposes of this subchapter. The Board of Selectmen shall
appoint one or more Citation Hearing Officers for the town. The Citation
Hearing Officer may not be a police officer, a Blight Enforcement Officer or an
employee of the town.
   (B)   If a violation remains unabated after 60 days as set forth in the
notice of violation issued per §
150.035, the Blight Enforcement Officer may issue a citation to the owner and
occupant, and may issue a citation to any other person responsible for the
violation in accordance with this subchapter. The citation shall state the
penalty amount in accordance with §
150.999, and date (15 days plus three business days) by which the uncontested
payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees shall be made. The blight citation
shall be mailed by both certified mail, return receipt requested, and regular
mail to the owner of the property at the last known address on file in the Tax
Collector’s records and to any other person responsible at his or her last
known address. In addition, the Blight Enforcement Officer shall make
reasonable efforts to send a copy by first class mail to any lienholder’s
current or last known address pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.
   (C)   Any person/entity issued a citation pursuant to this subchapter shall
be entitled to a hearing to contest the citation pursuant to the provisions of
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c.
   (D)   (1)   At any time within 12 months from the expiration of the final
period for the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees set by a
citation issued pursuant to this subchapter, the town shall send notice to the
person or persons or entity cited to inform the person or persons:
         (a)   Of the allegations against him, her or it and the amount of the
fines, penalties, costs or fees due;
         (b)   That he, she or it may contest liability before a Citation
Hearing Officer by delivering in person or by mail written notice to the office
of the First Selectman, 108 Pennsylvania Avenue, Niantic, Connecticut 06357,
within ten days of the date thereof;
         (c)   That if he, she or it does not demand such a hearing, an
assessment and judgment shall be entered against him, her or it; and
         (d)   That such judgment may issue without further notice.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, notice shall be presumed to have been
properly sent if such notice was mailed to such person’s last known address on
file with the Tax Collector. If the person to whom notice is issued is a
registrant, the town may deliver the notice in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 7-148H, provided nothing in this section shall preclude the town from
providing notice in another manner permitted by applicable law. The notice
shall also be sent by first class mail to any lienholder’s current or last
known address pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.
   (E)   If the person to whom notice is sent pursuant to this section wishes
to admit liability, he, she or it may, without requesting a hearing, pay the
full amount of the fines, penalties, costs or fees admitted to in person or by
mail to an official designated by the town.
   (F)   Any person to whom notice is sent who does not deliver or mail written
demand for a hearing within 15 days plus three business days of the date of the
first notice provided for by division (B) above shall be deemed to have
admitted liability, and the designated municipal official shall certify such
person’s failure to respond to the hearing officer. The Citation Hearing
Officer shall thereupon enter and assess the fine, penalties, costs or fees
provided for by this subchapter and shall follow the procedures for obtaining a
judgment from the Superior Court set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 152c(f).
   (G)   A person who makes a timely request for a hearing shall be given
written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be
held at a time and conducted in the manner provided by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-
152c(e).
      (1)   The Citation Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision within
30 days of the hearing. If he or she determines that the person is not liable,
he or she shall dismiss the matter and enter his or her determination in
writing accordingly. If he or she determines that the person is liable for the
violation, he or she shall forthwith enter and assess the fines, penalties,
costs or fees against such person as provided by this subchapter and issue a
notice of assessment by first class mail to the person found liable and to any
lienholders pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §7-148gg. The property owner and the
entity liable has 30 days from the notice of assessment to pay the fine.
      (2)   If the person responsible fails to pay the fine, not less than 30
days nor more than 12 months after such mailing of the notice of assessment,
the Citation Hearing Officer shall file a certified copy of the notice of
assessment and an entry fee with the Clerk of a Superior Court facility
designated by the Chief Court Administrator.
      (3)   The person against whom an assessment has been entered by the
Citation Hearing Officer pursuant to this section is entitled to judicial
review by way of appeal pursuant to the provisions and requirements of Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 7-152c(g).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.037 RECORDING OF LIEN.
   Any unpaid fine imposed shall constitute a lien upon the real estate in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148aa. Each such lien shall be continued,
recorded and released as provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148aa and the
General Statutes. Each lien shall be mailed to lienholders pursuant to Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.038 MUNICIPAL PERFORMANCE TO CORRECT; COSTS.
   (A)   In the event any owner, occupant, agent, tenant or person in control
of real estate shall fail to abate or correct any violation specified in any
notice, after the issuance of an enforcement citation for such failure, which
citation has become final through the failure of such owner, agent, tenant or
person in control of real estate to appeal from the issuance of said citation,
or by such appeal being sustained, the town, acting through its Blight
Enforcement Officer, may cause or take such action as is necessary to correct
such violation. The cost to take such action shall be a civil claim by the town
against such owner, agent, tenant or person responsible for such property and
the town may bring an action to recover all such costs and expenses incurred.
   (B)   The owner of a blighted premises may choose to cooperate with the
Blight Enforcement Officer and permit the town to cure the blight; provided
said owner shall secure the payment of the town’s expenses of remediation by
way of a lien on the property, or such other document satisfactory to the Town
Attorney.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.039 EXCEPTIONS AND PENDING APPROVALS.
   Any blighted premises for which any land use or building permit application
for improvements to the blighted premises is pending, or which has been sold to
a bona fide purchaser, shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter
for a period of 90 days from the date of submittal of a complete application to
the town or from the date of sale.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.040 CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent
the enforcement of other statutes, codes, ordinances or regulations which
prescribe standards other than are provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   If a court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision of this
subchapter to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such
decision shall be limited to those provisions which are expressly stated in the
decision to be invalid or ineffective, and all other provisions of this
subchapter shall continue to be separately and fully effective. If any other
ordinance or parts of ordinances are in conflict herewith, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
POSTING AND DISPLAYING NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS
§ 150.055 POSTING AND DISPLAYING NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to promote public safety and
convenience, and enhance the new E-9-1-1 telephone system by providing a
rational street numbering system by which addresses may be identified with the
ease and speed which is essential to the quick response of emergency services,
including police, firefighting and medical care.
   (B)   The Assessor shall assign a street identification number to every
residential, commercial, industrial or other structure located on premises
abutting a public street within the town except accessory structures such as
barns, garages or outbuildings which are located on the same premises as the
numbered structure.
   (C)   Every owner or occupant of a structure to which a number has been
assigned shall, within 120 days of the effective date of this section or the
date of assignment of a street identification number, whichever date is
earlier, prominently display the street number of such structure, by placing
said number in the manner herein provided.
   (D)   The numerals used to indicate the street identification number of
structures shall be located on the exterior front of the building or on a
signpost, mailbox or other device located between the building and street.
   (E)   Such numerals shall be a minimum of four inches high and be of a color
contrasting with the background material to which they are affixed. The
location and size of such numerals shall be sufficient to assure their
visibility from the street.
   (F)   For buildings containing more than three dwelling units which have
entrances from interior passageways, numerals shall be affixed within five feet
of every door by which the building may be entered.
   (G)   No certificate of occupancy for a new structure shall be issued until
compliance with this section is completed.
   (H)   The compliance officer for enforcement of this section shall be the
Building Official.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 196
DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS
§ 150.070 DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall, or shall cause another to, change the grade of
any land, or excavate, pave or fill any land in such a manner as to cause
surface water to drain from said land to a highway, without first obtaining a
permit in accordance with division (B) below. No such permit shall be granted
until and unless it is determined that the work will not cause surface water to
drain from such land to a highway in such amounts or in such locations as to
interfere with public travel, damage the highway, collect on the highway or
drain from the highway on to land of any other person.
      (2)   No person shall, or shall cause another to, excavate in, fill, cut
or change the grade of any highway, or perform any other work within the
highway limits without first obtaining a permit in accordance with division (B)
below.
      (3)    No person shall construct, alter or move any building or other
structure, or perform any other work which requires a building permit under the
State Building Code, without first obtaining a permit in accordance with
division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Town
Engineer, or to such other person as may be designated by the First Selectman,
on a form prescribed by the Town Engineer. Such permits shall be signed by the
Town Engineer or such other designated person.
      (2)   The Town Engineer shall require from the applicant such information
as may be necessary to enable him or her to determine the nature of the
proposed work and what construction methods and details should be required to
satisfy the provisions and intent of this section.
      (3)   When, in his or her opinion, the best interests of the town make it
advisable, he or she may require a plan and profile prepared by a professional
engineer at the expense of the applicant.
      (4)   The First Selectman, upon the recommendation of the Town Engineer,
may require from the applicant evidence of liability insurance and a surety
bond, in such amounts as may be, in the opinion of the Town Engineer, advisable
for the protection of the town. The Town Engineer shall, from time to time,
recommend to the First Selectman reductions and releases of such surety bonds
insofar as that may be done consistent with satisfying the provisions and
intent of this section, and the First Selectman may thereupon reduce and
release such bonds.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall not apply to work undertaken by or for the
state or the town.
      (2)   When the Town Engineer determines that the proposed work will not
affect a town highway, he or she shall waive the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Any permit granted hereunder may be suspended, modified or revoked by
the Town Engineer if unforeseen conditions or events occur or if there shall be
failure to comply with the provisions of the permit.
   (E)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the action of the Town Engineer
hereunder may appeal therefrom to the First Selectman within 30 days from the
date of the action appealed from. Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the
decision of the First Selectman on such an appeal, or by the action of the
First Selectman under division (B)(4) above, may appeal therefrom to the Board
of Selectmen within 30 days from the date of the decision by the First
Selectman on such an appeal or the date of the action of the First Selectman
under division (B)(4) above. Any such appeal shall be made in such manner and
form as shall be determined by the First Selectman. Within 30 days from the
date of the appeal, a hearing shall be held thereon after notice is given to
all parties deemed to have an interest. The decision or action appealed from
may be approved, disapproved or modified in order to satisfy the purposes of
this section.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see §
150.999
Editor’s note:   
   TM Volume 12, page 149
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §§
150.030 through
150.040 shall be punishable by a civil penalty of $10 per day for the first 90
days of a violation. If, after 90 days the violation continues, the fine
thereafter shall be $50 per day for each day a violation continues. Each day
after due notice of the violation has been served shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of §
150.055 or refuses or neglects to comply with the same, shall be deemed guilty
of an infraction and shall be fined $10 for each offense, and each and every
ten-day period of refusal or neglect to comply with the provisions of §
150.055 shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.070 may be fined up to $100. Each day on which a violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-21-1975; Ord. passed 4-16-1988)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact,
Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Method of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
151.15   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.30   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.31   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.32   Compliance
   
151.33   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.34   Interpretation
   
151.35   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.50   Establishment of development permit
   
151.51   Designation of Zoning Official
   
151.52   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Official
   
151.53   Variance procedure
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.65   General standards
   
151.66   Specific standards
   
151.67   Coastal high hazard area
   
151.68   Floodways and standards for AO/AH zones
   
151.69   Equal conveyance
   
151.70   Compensatory storage
   
151.71   Above ground storage tanks
   
151.72   Portion of structure in flood zone
   
151.73   Structures in two flood zones
   
151.74   No structures entirely or partially over water
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The Legislature of the State of Connecticut has in the General Statute
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Selectmen of the town does ordain as
follows.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)    The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
adequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage also
contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.04 METHOD OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
    In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of the Zoning Official
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet, a clearly
defined channel does not exist, the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the crest of the base flood or
100-year flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached
by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of
coastal and riverine areas.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS. Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which are not part of the structural support of the building
and which are so designed as to break away, under abnormally high tides or wave
action, without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.
   COASTAL AE ZONE. The portion of the coastal high hazard area with wave
heights between one and one-half feet and three feet during the base flood and
seaward of the line labeled the Limit of Moderate Wave Action (LiMWA) on a
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS are designated as Zones VE and Coastal AE on
a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   COST. As related to substantial improvements, the cost of any
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, alteration, repair or other
improvement of a structure shall be established by a detailed written
contractor's estimate. The estimate shall include, but not be limited to: the
cost of materials (interior finishing elements, structural elements, utility
and service equipment); sales tax on materials, building equipment and
fixtures, including heating and air conditioning and utility meters; labor;
built-in appliances; demolition and site preparation; repairs made to damaged
parts of the building worked on at the same time; contractor's overhead;
contractor's profit; and grand total. Items to be excluded include: cost of
plans and specifications; survey costs; permit fees; outside improvements such
as landscaping, sidewalks, fences, yard lights, irrigation systems; and
detached structures such as garages, sheds, and gazebos.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction of buildings or structures; the
construction of additions, alterations or substantial improvements to buildings
or structures; the placement of buildings or structures; mining,  dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment; the storage, deposition, or extraction of materials; and the
installation, repair or removal of public or private sewage disposal systems or
water supply facilities within the area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured home are to be affixed (including, as a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before June 15, 1981, the
effective date of the floodplain management ordinance adopted by the community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency that
administers the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   FINISHED LIVING SPACE. As related to fully enclosed areas below the base
flood elevation (BFE), a space that is, but is not limited to, heated and/or
cooled, contains finished floors (tile, linoleum, hardwood, etc.), has
sheetrock walls that may or may not be painted or wallpapered, and other
amenities such as furniture, appliances, bathrooms, fireplaces and other items
that are easily damaged by floodwaters and expensive to clean, repair or
replace.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, as well as the Flood Insurance
Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Area between the floodway and the boundary of the 100-year
flood area.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage, seafood processing
facilities, manufacturing, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The landward limit of the one and
one-half foot breaking wave within a Coastal AE Zone. These areas are seaward
of the line labeled LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA) on a Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM).
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. Recreational vehicles and
similar transportable structure are not considered manufactured homes unless
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. As related to substantial improvement and substantial damage,
the value of the structure shall be determined by an independent appraisal by a
professional appraiser of the structure prior to the start of the initial
repair or improvement, or in the case of damage, the value of the structure
prior to the damage occurring.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum to which base flood
elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after June 15, 1981, the effective date of this chapter and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after June 15,
1981, the effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by the
community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. 
      (1)   A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the
largest horizontal projections;
         (c)   Designed to be a self-propelled or permanently towable by light-
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonable use.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and similar transportable structures placed
on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer shall be considered manufactured
homes for the purpose of these regulations.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
SFHAs are determined utilizing the base flood elevations (BFE) provided on the
flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for a community. BFEs
provided on Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are only approximate (rounded up or
down) and should be verified with the BFEs published in the FIS for a specific
location. SFHAs  include, but are not necessarily limited to, the land shown as
Zones A, AE, AO, AH, and the Coastal High Hazard Areas shown as Zones VE and
Coastal AE on a FIRM. The SFHA is also called the Area of Special Flood Hazard.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date that the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement,
or other improvement was within l80 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grade and filing; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building manufactured home, or including a
gas or liquid storage tank or mobile home that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a two-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, taking
place over a two-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the start of construction of the improvement or repair;
or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored to its
condition before the damage occurred. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been previously identified and documented by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management ordinance. A structure or
other development without required permits, lowest floor elevation
documentation, floodproofing certificates or required floodway encroachment
calculations is resumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.30 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
    This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of East Lyme, Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.31 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
    The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for New London
County, Connecticut, dated April 3, 2020, and accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps (FIRM), dated August 5, 2013, (Panels 09011C0459J, 09011C0467J,
09011C0477J, 09011C0478J, 09011C0479J, 09011C0481J, 09011C0483J, 09011C0486J,
09011C0487J) and July 18, 2011 (Panels 09011C0309G, 09011C0316G, 09011C0317G,
09011C0318G, 09011C0319G, 09011C0328G, 09011C0336G, 09011C0337G, 09011C0338G,
09011C0339G, 09011C0457G, 09011C0476G) and other supporting data applicable to
the Town of East Lyme, and any subsequent revisions thereto, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this regulation. Since mapping is
legally adopted by reference into this regulation it must take precedence when
more restrictive until such time as a map amendment or map revision is obtained
from FEMA. The area of    special flood hazard includes any area shown on the
FIRM as Zones A, AE, AO, AH, Coastal AE and VE, including areas designated as a
floodway on a FIRM. Zones VE and Coastal AE are also identified as Coastal High
Hazard Areas. Areas of special flood hazard are determined utilizing the base
flood elevations (BFE) provided on the flood profiles in the Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for a community. BFEs provided on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
are only approximate (rounded up or down) and should be verified with the BFEs
published in the FIS for a specific location. The FIRM and FIS are on file in
the Town Hall, East Lyme, Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 6-19-1984; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord.
passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
   TM Volume 15, page 93
§ 151.32 COMPLIANCE.
    No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.33 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
    This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other chapter, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.34 INTERPRETATION.
    In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.35 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Town of East Lyme, Connecticut,
any officer or employee thereof or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for
any flood damages that Management Agency, for any flood damages that result
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)    A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
151.31.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Zoning Official and may include, but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; the limit of the 100-year floodplain, the
limit of moderate wave action (LiMWA) boundary line the floodway boundary line
and base flood elevation(s), existing or proposed structures, fill, storage or
materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice and the floodproofing criteria in §
151.66(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      (5)   Plans for any walls to be used to enclose space below the base
flood level; and
      (6)   The limit of the 100-year floodplain, the limit of moderate wave
action (LiMWA) boundary line the floodway boundary line and base flood
elevation(s).
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.51 DESIGNATION OF ZONING OFFICIAL.
   The Zoning Official is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.52 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ZONING OFFICIAL.
   Duties of the Zoning Official shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (3)   Review all development permits in the area of special flood hazard
except in the coastal high hazard area to determine if the proposed development
adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of the area of special flood
hazard. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point;
      (4)   Review all development permits in the coastal high hazard area of
the area of special flood hazard to determine if the proposed development
alters mangrove stands or sand dunes so as to increase potential flood damage;
and
      (5)   Review plans for walls to be used to enclose space below the base
flood level in accordance with §
151.67(B)(4).
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
151.31, the Zoning Official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer these regulations.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (2)   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
151.50(C).
      (3)   In coastal high hazard areas, (VE and Coastal AE Zones)
certification shall be obtained from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the structure is designed to be securely anchored to adequately
anchored pilings or columns in order to withstand velocity waters and hurricane
wave wash; and
      (4)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Energy and
Environmental Protection (Land and Water Resource Division) and the
Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments (SCCOG), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
      (2)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards, for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation.
   (F)   Upon completion of the applicable portion of construction, the
applicant shall provide verification to the Zoning Official of the following as
is applicable. Lowest floor elevation shall be verified for:
      (1)   A structure in Zones A, AE, AO or AH is the top of the lowest floor
including basement);
      (2)   A structure in Zones VE and Coastal AE is the bottom of the lowest
horizontal structural member (excluding pilings or columns);
      (3)   A non-residential structure that has been dry floodproofed is the
elevation to which the floodproofing is effective. (Note: For insurance
purposes, a dry floodproofed, non-residential structure is rated based on the
elevation of its lowest floor unless it is floodproofed to one foot above the
BFE.);
      (4)   Verification of the above shall be provided on a FEMA Elevation
Certificate, Floodproofing Certificate for Non-Residential Structures Form 086-
0-34, and V Zone Design Certificate, as applicable.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.53 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Board of Selectmen shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Selectmen shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Zoning Official in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Selectmen or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Superior Court as provided in the
Connecticut General Statutes.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Selectmen shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program of that;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items in divisions (A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(k) above
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Selectmen may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
      (7)   The Zoning Official shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency in
its biennial report.
   (B)   Conditions for variances in flood hazard areas.
      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the lowest floor
elevation up to amount as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.65 GENERAL STANDARDS.
    In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   New construction, substantial improvements, and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage shall be constructed with
materials and utility equipment that are flood-damage resistant and conform to
the provisions of FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Material
Requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, flooring, interior and
exterior walls, wall coverings and other materials installed below the base
flood elevation plus one foot.
      (3)   All manufactured homes to be placed, or substantially improved,
shall be elevated so that the lowest floor is one foot above the base flood
elevation and shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. This
includes manufactured homes located outside a manufactured home park or
subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park in which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood. Specific requirements shall be that:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   All manufactured homes, as specified in division (A)(3) above,
shall be placed on a permanent foundation which itself is securely anchored and
to which the structure is securely anchored so that it will resist flotation,
lateral movement, and hydrostatic and hydrodynamic pressures. Anchoring may
include, but not be limited to, the use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   The bottom of all electrical, heating, plumbing, ventilation and
air conditioning equipment, appliances, fixtures and components, HVAC duct work
and duct systems, and any other utility service equipment, facilities,
machinery, or connections servicing a structure shall be elevated one foot
above the base flood elevation (BFE). This includes, but is not limited to,
furnaces, oil or propane tanks, air conditioners, heat pumps, hot water
heaters, ventilation duct work, washer and dryer hook-ups, electrical junction
boxes, and circuit breaker boxes. Systems, fixtures, equipment and components
shall not be mounted on or penetrate through breakaway walls intended to fail
under flood loads. Connections or other equipment that must be located below
the BFE plus one foot elevation are permitted only when no other elevation
alternative is available and provided they are designed and installed to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components and to resist
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of
buoyancy, during the occurrence of the base flood event. Electrical wiring
systems that must be located below the BFE plus one foot shall conform to the
standards for wet locations.
    (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or five
acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Standards for streams without established base flood elevations,
floodways and/or flood mapping.
      (1)   The Zoning Official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, including data developed pursuant to §§ 15.3.3.(b) or 15.5.1.(d)(4) of
these regulations or § 6-6-1(7) of the town's subdivision regulations, as
criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements or other
development in A, or AE Zones on the community's FIRM meet the standards in §
15.5.2.
      (2)   In AE Zones where base flood elevations have been determined, but
before a floodway is designated, no new construction, substantial improvement,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted which will increase
base flood elevations more than one foot at any point along the watercourse
when all anticipated development is considered cumulatively with the proposed
development.
      (3)   The Zoning Official may request or accept floodway data of an
applicant for watercourses without FEMA-published floodways. When such data is
provided by an applicant or from any other source, the town shall adopt a
regulatory floodway. The floodway shall be based on only the principle that the
floodway must be able to convey the waters of the base flood without increasing
the water surface elevation more than one foot at any point along the
watercourse.
      (4)   Where no base flood elevation (BFE) or floodway data is available,
the Zoning Enforcement Official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal, State, or
other source, as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development in any area of potential, demonstrable or
historical flooding within the community meet the standards in § 15.5.2. A
registered professional engineer must determine the BFE in accordance with
accepted hydrologic and hydraulic engineering practices and document the
technical methods used. Studies, analyses and computations shall be submitted
in sufficient detail to allow thorough review and approval.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.66 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential construction. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A and AE, new
construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot above base
flood elevation. All new construction, substantial improvements, and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage which are residential
structures shall have the bottom of the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE). Electrical, plumbing,
machinery or other utility equipment that service the structure must be
elevated one foot above the BFE.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A and AE,
all new construction, substantial improvements, and repair to structures that
have sustained substantial damage which are commercial, industrial or non-
residential structures shall:
      (1)   Have the bottom of the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE); or;
      (2)   In lieu of being elevated, non-residential structures may be dry
floodproofed to one foot above the BFE provided that together with all
attendant utilities and sanitary facilities the areas of the structure below
the required elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water, and provided that such structures are composed of
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall review and/or develop structural design
specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with acceptable standards
of practice for meeting the provisions of this chapter. Such certification
shall be provided to the zoning official on the FEMA Floodproofing Certificate,
Form 086-0-34.
      (3)   Electrical, plumbing, machinery or other utility equipment that
service the structure must be elevated one foot above the BFE.
   (C)   Fully enclosed areas below the base flood elevation of elevated
buildings. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A and AE, all new construction,
substantial improvements, or repair to structures that have sustained
substantial damage, whether residential or non-residential, that include fully
enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior walls shall have the
lowest floor elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE). The
elevated building shall be designed to preclude finished living space below the
lowest floor and be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls (wet
floodproofing). Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as meeting the
requirements of ASCE 24 § 2.6.2.2, or meet the following minimum criteria
listed in divisions (C) (1) through (8) below:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings (hydraulic flood vents) having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding. The enclosed area is measured on the
exterior of the enclosure walls. These hydraulic openings must be located on at
least two different exterior walls of each enclosed area. If the structure has
more than one enclosed area, openings must be installed in the exterior walls
of each enclosed area so that flood waters can enter directly from the outside;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
the higher of either the final interior grade or floor elevation, or the
finished exterior grade adjacent to the outside of the foundation wall. At
least one entire side of the structure's fully enclosed area must be at or
above grade. Fill placed around the foundation walls must be graded so that the
elevation inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent
outside elevation on at least one side of the building. The finished floor of
the enclosed area shall be no lower than the bottom of the foundation openings.
The foundation slab of a residential structure, including the slab of a
crawlspace, must be set equal to the outside finished grade on at least one
side of the building;
      (3)   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters in both directions without any external influence or control such as
human intervention, including the use of electrical and other non-automatic
mechanical means. These coverings must not block or impede the automatic flow
of floodwaters into and out of the enclosed area. Other coverings may be
designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or approved by the
[title of local administrator];
      (4)   Openings shall not be less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall;
      (5)   The area cannot be used as finished living space. Use of the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary and shall only be used for the
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage. Access to the enclosed
area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for the parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection
with the premises (standard exterior door) or entry to the living area
(stairway or elevator). The enclosed area shall not be used for human
habitation;
      (6)   All interior walls, floor, and ceiling materials located below one
foot above the BFE shall be unfinished and flood damage-resistant in accordance
with FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Requirements.
      (7)   Electrical, plumbing, HVAC duct work, machinery or other utility
equipment and connections that service the structure (including, but not
limited to, furnaces, oil or propane tanks, air conditioners, heat pumps, hot
water heaters, ventilation, washer and dryer hook-ups, electrical junction
boxes, circuit breaker boxes and food freezers) are prohibited in the fully
enclosed area below the BFE plus one foot. Utilities or service equipment
located in this enclosed area, even if elevated to one foot above the BFE in
the space, may subject the structure to increased flood insurance rates.
      (8)   A residential building with a structurally attached garage having
the floor slab below the BFE is considered an enclosed area below the BFE and
must meet the standards of § 151.66(C)(1) through (7) above. A garage attached
to a residential structure, constructed with the garage floor slab below the
BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters
in both directions. Flood openings or vents are required in the exterior walls
of the garage or in the garage doors. Garage doors that must be manually opened
do not meet the flood vent requirements in §
151.66(C)(1) through (3). In addition to the automatic entry of floodwaters,
the areas of the garage below BFE plus one foot must be constructed with flood
damage-resistant materials per the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 2.
Garages attached to non-residential structures must also meet the
aforementioned requirements or be dry floodproofed as per the requirements of §
151.66(B).
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) with Zones A and AE, any
manufactured (mobile) home to be newly placed, undergoing a substantial
improvement or repaired as a result of substantial damage, shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the frame is located one foot above the base flood elevation
(BFE). The manufactured home must also meet all the construction standards for
Zones A and AE as per §§
151.66 and
151.65. The foundation and anchorage of manufactured homes to be located in
floodways shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ASCE 24. This
includes SFHAs outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or on a site in an existing manufactured home park in which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (2)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) with Zones VE and Coastal AE,
any manufactured (mobile) home to be newly placed, undergoing a substantial
improvement or repaired as a result of sustained substantial damage, shall be
elevated so that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member located
one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE). The manufactured home must also
meet all the construction standards for Zones VE and Coastal AE as per §
151.67. This includes SFHAs outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in
a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or on a site in an existing manufactured home park in which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (3)   All manufactured (mobile) homes within SFHA shall be placed on a
permanent foundation which itself is securely anchored and to which the
structure is securely anchored so that it will resist flotation, lateral
movement and hydrostatic pressures. Anchoring may include, but not be limited
to, the use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (4)   All manufactured (mobile) homes within SFHA shall be installed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. Adequate access and
drainage should be provided. Elevation construction standards include piling
foundations placed no more than ten feet apart, and reinforcement is provided
for piers more than six feet above ground level.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A and AE in the
SFHA shall either be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and be
fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet all the general standards of
§
151.65 and the elevation and anchoring requirement of §§
151.66,
151.65(A) and
151.66(D)(3). A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zone VE and Coastal AE
in the SFHA shall either be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
and be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet all the general
standards of §
151.65, the VE and Coastal AE Zone construction requirements of §
151.67, and the elevation and anchoring requirement of §§
151.67,
151.65(A) and
151.66(D)(3). A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.67 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA.
    Coastal high hazard areas (VE and Coastal AE Zones) are located within the
areas of special flood hazard. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with high velocity waters from tidal surges and hurricane wave wash;
therefore, the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Location of structures.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be located landward of reach of
the mean high tide.
      (2)   The placement of manufactured homes shall be prohibited, except in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision. Manufactured homes placed or
substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park must meet the
construction requirements for coastal high hazard areas provided in §
151.67. All manufactured homes within VE zones shall be placed on a permanent
foundation which itself is securely anchored and to which the structure is
securely anchored so that it will resist flotation, lateral movement and
hydrostatic pressures. Anchoring may include, but not be limited to, the use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. All manufactured homes within VE
zones shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood
damage. Adequate access and drainage should be provided.
   (B)   Construction methods.
      (1)   All new construction, substantial improvement and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage shall be elevated so that the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member (excluding pilings, pile
caps, and columns) is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
(BFE), with all space below the lowest horizontal supporting member open and
free of obstruction so as not to impede the flow of water. Basement floors that
are below ground on all sides are prohibited.
      (2)   The bottom of all electrical, plumbing, machinery or other utility
equipment that service the structure must be elevated one foot above the BFE
and cannot be located below the structure. Any service equipment that must be
located below the BFE must be floodproofed to prevent water from entering
during conditions of flooding. Electrical, mechanical and plumbing system
components are not to be mounted on or penetrate through walls designed to
breakaway under flood loads.
      (3)   To protect the building envelope, an exterior door shall be
installed at the top of the stairs that provides access to the lowest floor of
the structure. The lowest level in a VE zone structure is not habitable space.
      (4)   The base of a chimney or fireplace shall not extend below the BFE
plus one foot. When vertical support is required, a chimney or fireplace shall
be vertically supported on pile or column foundations embedded at least as deep
as the rest of the structure foundation or deeper where needed to support the
chimney against water and wind loads. The chimney and fireplace system shall be
designed to minimize transfer of water and wind loads to the structure or
structure foundation.
      (5)   Structural support.
         (a)   Pilings or columns used as structural support and the structure
attached thereto shall be designed and anchored so as to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement due to the effects of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
         (b)   There shall be no fill used for structural support. Minor
grading and the placement of minor quantities of non-compacted fill shall be
permitted for landscaping and drainage purposes under and around buildings, and
for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios and walkways installed at
current grade. The fill must wash out from storm surge, thereby rendering the
building free of obstruction, prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects, or wave deflection.
      (6)   Certification. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of §
151.67 with a FEMA V Zone Design Certificate.
      (7)   Space below the lowest floor.
         (a)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure started after the enactment of this chapter shall not enclose the
space below the lowest floor unless breakaway walls, open wood lattice work, or
insect screening are used as provided for in this section.
         (b)   Non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice work, or
insert screening shall be allowed below the lowest floor provided they are
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system.
         (c)   Areas enclosed by breakaway walls shall contain hydraulic flood
vents per the requirements of §
151.66(C). For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less
than that which would occur during the base flood; and
            2.   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and non-structural). Maximum wind and water
loading values to be used in the determination shall each have a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceed in any given year (l00 year mean recurrence interval).
         (d)   If breakaway walls are utilized, such enclosed space shall not
be used for human habitation but solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage.
         (e)   Prior to construction, plans for any structure that will have
breakaway walls must be submitted to the Zoning Official for approval.
   (C)   Sand dunes. There shall be no alteration of sand dunes which could
increase potential flood damage.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.68 FLOODWAYS AND STANDARDS FOR AO/AH ZONES.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as
floodways. Since the floodway is in an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
unless certification, with supporting technical data, by a Connecticut
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating, through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice, that encroachments shall not result in any (0.00 feet) increase in
flood levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge published by FEMA.
Buildings and structures meeting the standard above and located in whole or in
part in the floodway shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ASCE
24. Fences in the floodway must be aligned with the flow and be of an open
design.
   (B)   Standards for Development in Areas of Shallow Flooding (Zones AO and
AH). Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) are areas designated
as shallow flooding areas (AO and AH Zones). These areas have flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate. In AO and AH zones, the following provisions apply:
   (C)   For residential structures, all new construction, substantial
improvements and repair to structures that have sustained substantial damage
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). If no depth number is specified, the
lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least three feet above
the highest adjacent grade.
   (D)   For non-residential structures, all new construction, substantial
improvements and repair to structures that have sustained substantial damage
shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). If no depth number is
specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated at least
three feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as
one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM, or if no depth number is
specified at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade, so that any
space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Designs
for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   On-site drainage for all proposed structures in AO and AH Zones
located on slopes shall provide adequate drainage paths to guide flood waters
around and away from such structures.
   (F)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor in AO and AH Zones must
comply with the provisions of §
151.66(C) for hydraulic vents.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended
§ 151.69 EQUAL CONVEYANCE.
   Within the floodplain, except those areas which are tidally influenced, as
designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for the community,
encroachments resulting from filling, new construction or substantial
improvements involving an increase in footprint of the structure, are
prohibited unless the applicant provides certification by a registered
professional engineer demonstrating, with supporting hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice, that such
encroachments shall not result in any (0.00 feet) increase in flood levels
(base flood elevation). Work within the floodplain and the land adjacent to the
floodplain, including work to provide compensatory storage shall not be
constructed in such a way so as to cause an increase in flood stage or flood
velocity.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
§ 151.70 COMPENSATORY STORAGE.
   The water holding capacity of the floodplain, except those areas which are
tidally influenced, shall not be reduced. Any reduction caused by filling, new
construction or substantial improvements involving an increase in footprint to
the structure, shall be compensated for by deepening and/or widening of the
floodplain. Storage shall be provided on-site, unless easements have been
gained from adjacent property owners; it shall be provided within the same
hydraulic reach and a volume not previously used for flood storage; it shall be
hydraulically comparable and incrementally equal to the theoretical volume of
flood water at each elevation, up to and including the 100-year flood
elevation, which would be displaced by the proposed project. Such compensatory
volume shall have an unrestricted hydraulic connection to the same waterway or
water body. Compensatory storage can be provided off-site if approved by the
municipality.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
§ 151.71 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANKS.
   In all flood zones, underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement under conditions of the base flood. In
VE and Coastal AE zones, above-ground storage tanks which are located outside
or inside of a structure must be elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation (BFE). Where elevated on platforms, the platforms shall be
cantilevered from or knee braced to the building or shall be supported on
elevated foundations that conform to the standards for the particular flood
zone as described in §
5.3. In A and AE zones, above-ground storage tanks which are located outside or
inside of a structure shall be elevated one foot above the base flood elevation
(BFE) or shall be securely anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement under conditions of the base flood. Anchored tanks must have the top
of the fill pipe located at least one foot above the BFE and have a screw fill
cap that does not allow for the infiltration of flood water.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
§ 151.72 PORTION OF STRUCTURE IN FLOOD ZONE.
   If any portion of a structure lies within the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA), the entire structure is considered to be located within the SFHA and
must meet the construction requirements of the flood zone. The structure
includes any structurally attached additions, garages, decks, porches,
sunrooms, patios or any other structure attached to the main structure.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
§ 151.73 STRUCTURES IN TWO FLOOD ZONES.
   If a structure lies within two or more flood zones, the construction
standards of the most restrictive zone apply to the entire structure (i.e., VE
zone is more restrictive than AE zone; structure must be built to the highest
BFE). The structure includes any structurally attached additions, garages,
decks, porches, patios, sunrooms, or any other structure attached to the main
structure.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
§ 151.74 NO STRUCTURES ENTIRELY OR PARTIALLY OVER WATER.
   New construction, substantial improvements and repair to structures that
have sustained substantial damage cannot be constructed or located entirely or
partially over water unless it is a functionally dependent use or facility.
(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
CHAPTER 152: HARBOR MANAGEMENT
Section
In General
   
152.01   Purposes
   
152.02   Boundaries
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   General provisions
   
152.05   Use of the harbor management area
   
152.06   Mooring and anchoring vessels
   
152.07   Marine sanitation
Harbor Management Commission
   
152.20   Establishment, jurisdiction and membership
   
152.21   Powers, duties and responsibilities
   
152.22   Consultation and coordination with other town boards and commissions
and state and federal agencies
   
152.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 152.01 PURPOSES.
   (A)    The town has established a Harbor Management Commission which also is
designated as the Town Shellfish Commission. This chapter is a harbor
management chapter and it and the harbor management plan referenced herein
shall not be construed as effectuating regulations or procedures applicable to
shell fishing or shellfish grounds within the Harbor Management Commission's
jurisdiction when acting as a Shellfish Commission.
   (B)   The Harbor Management Commission has prepared a harbor management plan
pursuant to the requirements of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113k through 22a-113s
and other related legislation.
   (C)   The town desires to manage its harbor resources in the most effective
manner and plan for the most desirable use of the town harbor management area
for conservation, recreation and development.
   (D)   Therefore, the Board of Selectmen hereby enacts the following
regulations for the management of the town harbor management area.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.02 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Harbor management area boundaries. The overall boundaries of the East
Lyme harbor management area include all navigable waters and intertidal areas
below the mean high water line of the shoreline of the town and bounded on the
east by the East Lyme/Waterford town line; on the south by a straight line
running from Millstone Point to Black Point and by a straight line running from
Black Point to Hatchetts Point; and on the west by the East Lyme/Old Lyme town
line.
   (B)   Shellfish grounds boundaries. The Town Harbor Management Commission
shall have charge of all shellfisheries and shellfish grounds lying in the town
not granted to the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission by Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 26-287, Revision of 1958, as amended, and not under the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner of Agriculture, including all rivers, inland waters and flats
adjacent to all beaches and waters within the limits and marine bounds (below
the mean high water line) of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994 ; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABODE. The principal, non-water dependent use of a structure or vessel as a
dwelling or home.
   ANCHOR (See also MOORING and MOORING TACKLE).
      (1)   A heavy device, fastened to a chain or line, and dropped to the
bottom of a waterbody to hold a vessel in position.
      (2)   To secure a vessel temporarily to the bottom of a waterbody by
dropping an anchor or anchors or other ground tackle from a vessel.
   ANCHORAGE. Those water areas designated for anchoring with ground tackle
carried on board a vessel.
   CHANNEL. Water areas specifically reserved for unobstructed movement of
vessels, shown on navigation charts, and marked in-water by aids to navigation.
   COASTAL JURISDICTIONAL LINE (CJL). The line defined by the topographical
elevation of the highest predicted tide for the period beginning in 1983 and
ending in 2001, calculated for each coastal municipality for the purpose of
defining the regulatory jurisdiction of the Connecticut Department of Energy
and Environmental Protection. Proposed work and structures waterward of the
coastal jurisdictional line are subject to the DEEP's coastal regulatory
authorities, including authorities regulating structures, dredging and fill.
Prior to October 1, 2012, the DEEP's regulatory jurisdiction was marked by the
high tide line.
   COASTAL SITE PLAN REVIEW. The process whereby specific development plans
proposed within the town’s coastal boundary are reviewed by the Planning and
Zoning Commissions for consistency with the town’s Municipal Coastal Program
and the Connecticut Coastal Management Act.
   COMMERCIAL MOORING. A mooring as defined by the Corps of Engineers for which
any type of a fee is charged (excepting a fee charged by the town for a mooring
permit issued by the Harbor Master) and which must be authorized by an
individual permit from the Corps of Engineers, the State Department of
Environmental Protection and the Harbor Master.
   COMMERCIAL VESSEL. Any vessel, licensed or unlicensed, used or engaged for
any type of commercial venture, including, but not limited to, the carrying of
cargo and/or passengers for hire and commercial fishing.
   DEPUTY HARBOR MASTER. The Deputy Harbor Master appointed by the Governor of
Connecticut in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 15-1, and who shall carry out
his or her duties under the direction of the Harbor Master.
   EMERGENCY. A state of imminent or proximate danger to life or property in
which time is of the essence.
   FAIRWAY. A specific water area to be kept free of obstructions to ensure
safe passage of recreational and commercial vessels to, from, through and
alongside navigation channels, mooring areas, anchorages and berthing areas.
   FLOATING HOME (See also ABODE). Any structure constructed on a raft, barge
or hull, moored or docked in any water that is used primarily as an abode.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT. A town account, within the town’s General Fund,
as authorized by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113s into which shall be deposited all
fees for mooring and anchorage permits and other activities within the scope of
the harbor management plan and which shall  be used for the maintenance and
improvement of the town harbor management area for the public and for expenses
for personnel and equipment directly related to the function of the Harbor
Management Commission and the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ACT. The legislation contained within the Conn. Gen. Stat.
§§ 22a-113k through 22a-113t, as may be amended from time to time, and which
authorizes municipalities to establish harbor management commissions and
prepare harbor management plans.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT AREA. The area of jurisdiction of the Town Harbor
Management Commission as defined in the harbor management plan and §
152.02.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT COMMISSION. The duly appointed body of the town with
responsibilities for carrying out the harbor management plan as set forth under
the Harbor Management Act and any other duties granted by state law and town
ordinance including having charge of all shellfisheries and shellfish grounds
lying in the town not granted to the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission
and not under the jurisdiction of the State Commissioner of Agriculture.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT CONSISTENCY REVIEW PROCESS. The process authorized by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113p and described in the harbor management plan whereby
the Harbor Management Commission shall review for consistency with the harbor
management plan, specific development proposals submitted to, or proposed by,
town commissions and departments, and state and federal agencies.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE. This chapter establishing rules and regulations
for the use and enjoyment of the town harbor management area as recommended by
the Town Harbor Management Commission and adopted by the Town Board of
Selectmen.
   HARBOR MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan for the safe, beneficial and balanced use of
town’s harbor management area for recreational and other purposes and for the
protection of environmental resources as prepared by the Harbor Management
Commission, adopted by the Board of Selectmen and approved by the Connecticut
Commissioner of Energy and Environmental Protection and the Connecticut Port
Authority in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113k through 22a-113t and
§§
152.20 through
152.22.
   HARBOR MASTER. The Harbor Master who is nominated by the Harbor Management
Commission for appointment by the Governor of Connecticut in accordance with
Conn. Gen. Stat. §15-1, and who shall advise the Harbor Management Commission
with respect to matters concerning the waters under the jurisdiction of the
town, serve as an ex-officio member of the Commission, have special
responsibilities for implementing the harbor management plan subject to the
jurisdiction of the Harbor Management Commission and conduct all of his or her
duties in a manner consistent with the plan.
   HAZARD TO NAVIGATION. An obstruction, usually sunken, that presents
sufficient danger to navigation so as to require expeditious, affirmative
action such as marking, removal or redefinition of a designated waterway to
provide for navigational safety.
   INDIVIDUAL-PRIVATE MOORING. A mooring belonging to an individual,
partnership or corporation and authorized for use by a mooring permit issued by
the Harbor Master. Individual-private moorings shall not be leased or rented to
a third party.
   INSPECTION SERVICE. Any person or business known to the Harbor Master who
has equipment and knowledge suitable for making mooring tackle inspections.
   MARINE FACILITY. Any facility (including, but not limited to, docks, floats,
piers, ramps, hoists, parking areas, concessions and service facilities),
either publicly or privately owned, intended primarily to be used by or for the
service of vessels and located within the harbor management area.
   MEAN HIGH WATER (MHW) LINE. The average height of the maximum elevation
reached by each rising tide over a 19-year period immediately preceding the
current year. Proposed work and structures seaward of the MHW LINE are subject
to federal regulatory authorities carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers as well as state regulatory authorities. (State regulatory
authorities also extend above the MHW LINE to the high tide line which is
defined by a higher elevation than the MHW LINE.) All land and water areas
seaward of the MHW LINE are subject to the Public Trust Doctrine and held in
trust by the state for public use. The MHW LINE also marks the seaward boundary
of the jurisdiction of the town’s Planning and Zoning Commissions.
   MOOR. To secure a vessel to the bottom of a water body by the use of mooring
tackle.
   MOORING. A structure as defined in the most recent version of the Office of
Long Island Sound Programs General Permit for Harbor Moorings GP-LIS-002.
   MOORING AREA. An area designated by the Harbor Management Commission, and
including special anchorage areas designated by the U.S. Coast Guard, within
which vessels may be moored provided a valid permit for such mooring is
obtained from the Harbor Master.
   MOORING LOCATION. A place where a buoyant vessel is permanently secured to
the bottom of a waterbody by mooring tackle and by permit from the Harbor
Master.
   MOORING TACKLE. The chain, anchor, buoys and other equipment used to moor a
vessel, including anchoring equipment commonly known as mushroom, dead weight,
pyramid or helical embedment anchors. Specifically excluded from this
definition are engine blocks and other devices which, when used as anchors,
could result in the degradation of water quality or otherwise damage coastal
resources.
   OBSTRUCTION TO NAVIGATION. Anything that restricts, endangers or interferes
with navigation.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. As defined by state statute, any inboard powered vessel
less than 16 feet in length which has an internal combustion engine powering a
water-jet pump as its primary source of motor propulsion and which is designed
to be operated by a person sitting, standing or kneeling on the vessel rather
than the conventional matter of sitting or standing inside the vessel.
   PERSONS. Those, including individuals, corporations, societies, associations
and partnerships, using the facilities and areas within the harbor management
area and subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   QUALIFIED INSPECTOR. Any person approved as an inspector of mooring tackle
by the Harbor Master.
   SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLIP. Berthing space for a single vessel alongside a pier, finger float or
walkway.
   SPECIAL ANCHORAGE AREA. A water area designated by the Coast Guard,
identified on navigation charts, and where vessels may be anchored or moored.
Within such areas, vessels less than 65 feet are not required to display
anchorage lights.
   STATE. The State of Connecticut.
   STRAY VESSEL. An abandoned vessel, a vessel with unknown owner or a vessel
underway without a competent person in command.
   TRANSIENT ANCHORAGE. Any area reserved and designated in the harbor
management area for the exclusive short term use (not to exceed seven
consecutive days) of commercial and recreational vessels and any vessels
seeking emergency shelter.
   VESSEL. As defined by state statute, every description of watercraft, other
than a seaplane on water, used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter and any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be applicable, and shall govern the
use of the harbor management lands, waters and facilities under the
jurisdiction of the Town Harbor Management Commission. This chapter shall be
subordinate to all existing federal and state statutes and regulations
affecting the town harbor management area, and is not intended to preempt any
other valid laws.
   (B)   Invalidity of provisions. Should any provision or provisions of this
chapter be held invalid or inoperative, the remainder shall continue in full
force and effect.
   (C)   Authorities and enforcement.
      (1)    The Town Harbor Master or his or her designee, under the direction
of the Town Harbor Management Commission, shall have the authority to carry out
harbor management directives and enforce all provisions of the harbor
management plan, including this chapter to the extent provided by and
consistent with all other applicable laws, regulations and ordinances,
including the Connecticut General Statutes.
      (2)   The Harbor Master or his or her designee may cite any alleged
violators of this chapter. Any police officer or constable of the town shall
have authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall work
cooperatively with the Harbor Master to achieve effective enforcement of any
orders by the Harbor Master pursuant to the Connecticut General Statutes,
including but not limited to orders concerning the stationing of any vessel in
the harbor management area.
   (D)   Harbor Management Account.
      (1)   As authorized by the Connecticut General Statutes, a Harbor
Management Account is hereby created in the town’s General Fund to receive and
expend monies for harbor management purposes determined by the Harbor
Management Commission. All revenues generated by the following shall be
deposited into this account:
         (a)   Mooring permits;
         (b)   Fines levied under the provisions of this chapter as it applies
to the harbor management area; and
         (c)   Fees generated by designation of oyster, clam and shellfish beds
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 26-240 et seq.
      (2)   Other funds generated or allocated specifically for harbor
management shall also be deposited in this account. Funds shall be disbursed
for purposes directly associated with the management of the town’s harbor
management area and implementation of the town harbor management plan. Monies
from this account may be allocated to the Harbor Master or his or her designee
for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the town harbor management
plan and/or this chapter.
   (E)   Compensation of harbor personnel. The Harbor Master, Deputy Harbor
Master and administrative personnel may receive compensation to be determined
by the Harbor Management Commission. Additionally, monies from the Harbor
Management Account may be used to reimburse the Harbor Master, Deputy Harbor
Master and administrative personnel for necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties. Monies from this account may also be used to
compensate contractors hired to perform work as may be deemed necessary by the
Harbor Management Commission or the Harbor Master.
   (F)   Coordination with other governmental laws and regulations. Nothing
hereon contained shall bar or prevent the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master
from performing those duties which have been assigned to them under the General
Statutes of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.05 USE OF THE HARBOR MANAGEMENT AREA.
   (A)    Vessel speed and wake.
      (1)   The operation of any vessel, including personal watercraft, within
the town harbor management area shall proceed in a manner which protects all
persons and property from any damage caused by a wake.
      (2)   In no event shall any vessel under power exceed a speed limit of
six mph within:
         (a)   The federal navigation channel;
         (b)   Two hundred feet of shore in the Upper Niantic River north of
the federal navigation channel;
         (c)   The Pattagansett River Estuary Restricted Speed Area as marked
by state speed limit signs; and
         (d)   One hundred feet of shore or any dock, pier, float or anchored
or moored vessel in any other part of the harbor management area.
   (B)   Obstruction of channels, fairways and berthing space. No vessel shall
be moored or anchored so as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use of
any channel, fairway or berthing space within the harbor management area.
   (C)   Swimming and underwater diving. Swimming and underwater diving are
prohibited in all designated channels except in an emergency or for inspection
purposes.
   (D)   Fishing. Fishing from vessels and shellfishing shall not occur in any
designated channels, fairways and anchorages in a manner that poses a hazard to
navigation. The placement of lobster pot floats and fixed fishing nets is
prohibited in all channels marked by U.S. Coast Guard channel markers, within
any fairway as designated in the harbor management plan and within any mooring
area designated in the harbor management plan.
   (E)   Waterskiing. Waterskiing is prohibited in all designated channels, and
in anchorages and mooring areas in the harbor management area when vessels are
anchored or moored therein. Waterskiing is prohibited within 200 feet of shore
in the Upper Niantic River north of the federal navigation channel, within the
Pattagansett River Restricted Speed Area as marked by state speed limit signs
and within 100 feet of shore or any dock, pier, float or anchored or moored
vessel in any other part of the harbor management area.
   (F)   Personal watercraft. Use of personal watercraft shall be in accordance
with all applicable statutes and regulations concerning the operation of
vessels. Use of personal watercraft is prohibited in all designated channels
except as necessary to reach personal watercraft activity areas, and within
designated anchorages and mooring areas when vessels are anchored or moored
therein.
   (G)   Board sailing and paddle boarding. Board sailing and paddle boarding
are prohibited within designated channels, except as necessary to cross said
channels in a manner that does not pose a hazard or inconvenience to
navigation.
   (H)   Public docks and boat launch ramps. The use of any public dock and
boat launch ramps shall be in accordance with rules and regulations established
by the Harbor Management Commission. No vessel shall remain at a public dock or
boat launch ramp for a period longer than the time limit posted at the dock. If
a vessel is left unattended for a period of time in violation of the posted
limit, then the vessel’s owner of record shall be held responsible.
   (I)   Use of vessels as abodes or floating homes. The use of any floating
structure in the town harbor management area as an abode or floating home is
prohibited. Living aboard vessels is allowed on a seasonal basis as a secondary
use to the vessel’s principal water-dependent use.
   (J)   Identification of vessels. All vessels moored, or tied up to wharves,
piers or docks in the harbor management area shall display a valid federal
documentation name or state registry number legible without boarding the vessel
in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes.
   (K)   Derelict or abandoned vessels and structures. No vessel, mooring
tackle, mooring float or other object within the harbor management area shall
be abandoned or sunk or placed where it may constitute a danger to navigation
or to the safety of persons or property or where it may prevent optimum use of
the area. Any vessel, mooring tackle or other object abandoned or sunk or so
placed may be removed or relocated by direction of the Harbor Master, if
corrective action is not taken by the owner, if known, within seven days after
notification, or, if not known, after notice has been posted for that period on
the vessel, mooring or object. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Harbor Master or his designee from taking measures without notice, if, in his
judgment, it is necessary in order to provide for the safety of persons or
property. The expense of such removal or relocation and any liability arising
from injury to person or property incurred thereby shall be the responsibility
of the owner of record.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.06 MOORING AND ANCHORING VESSELS.
   (A)   Mooring permits required.
      (1)    In accordance with state law and the town harbor management plan,
and in order to provide for adequate access for vessels, for the safety of
persons and property, for the protection of coastal resources and for the
optimum use of the town’s harbor management area, no vessel shall be moored in
the harbor management area without a valid permit from the Harbor Master. It
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to moor any vessel or place
any mooring tackle in the harbor management area without a permit from the
Harbor Master.
      (2)   No provision contained in this section shall limit the powers of
the Harbor Master to station and remove vessels as provided in the Connecticut
General Statutes.
   (B)   Rules, regulations and administrative procedures. The mooring and
anchoring of all vessels in the harbor management area shall be in accordance
with any rules, regulations and administrative procedures adopted by the Harbor
Management Commission.
   (C)   Mooring records.
      (1)   The Harbor Master shall keep detailed records of all mooring
permits, moored vessels and a list of any persons waiting for a mooring
location. Such records shall include information satisfactory to the Harbor
Management Commission.
      (2)   A list of current mooring assignments and a list of any persons
waiting for a mooring permit/location in the harbor management area shall be
maintained by the Harbor Master. The Harbor Master shall provide annually a
copy of said lists to the Secretary of the Harbor Management Commission not
later than September 30 of each year and said lists shall be made available for
public review upon request in a public place during regular business hours.
   (D)   Allocation of moorings.
      (1)   In allocating mooring locations, the Harbor Master shall give first
priority to those persons applying for the renewal of permits granted in the
preceding year, second priority to relocation requests in order of application
and third priority to new applicants in order of application.
      (2)   In allocating mooring locations, the Harbor Master shall, to the
extent possible, assign priority for mooring allocations to shorefront property
owners who apply for mooring locations offshore of their property.
      (3)   Within the limits of type and size of vessels, available mooring
locations shall be offered to the senior applicant on the mooring waiting list,
subject to the requirements of this chapter. If an available mooring location
is not suitable to accommodate the senior applicant’s vessel or specific needs,
it shall be offered to the next senior qualified applicant. The senior
applicant shall retain his or her place on the waiting list in this case. The
Harbor Master shall continue efforts to provide a suitable mooring location for
the senior applicant. If the senior applicant refuses a mooring location which
is suitable for his or her vessel in the opinion of the Harbor Master, that
applicant shall be moved to the bottom of the waiting list.
      (4)   No one individual shall be allocated more than one mooring location
and no one household, partnership or corporation shall be allocated more than
two mooring locations without annual written permission from the Harbor
Management Commission. Only one mooring space shall be allocated to any one
vessel.
      (5)   Mooring permits shall be issued by the Harbor Master only to those
applicants owning a vessel properly registered in accordance with laws of the
state.
   (E)   Application for mooring permit.
      (1)   Any person, including associations, corporations or other group,
may apply for a mooring permit by completing in full the application provided
for that purpose and submitting the completed application and all required
documents and fees to the Harbor Master.
      (2)   The Harbor Master shall accept new applications at any time for
consideration.
   (F)   Mooring permits valid for one year only. Any mooring permits granted
by the Harbor Master shall be consistent with the town harbor management plan
and shall expire on December 31 next following its issuance.
   (G)   Renewal of mooring permits. The Harbor Master shall notify all current
mooring permit holders of the requirements for mooring permit renewal. All
completed renewal applications and required documents and fees shall be due on
or before March 1 of each year. Renewal applications submitted after March 31
shall be subject to a late fee equal to and in addition to the annual permit
fee.
   (H)   Annual mooring permit fee. All applications for mooring permits shall
be accompanied by an appropriate fee (not to exceed the maximum amount
authorized by the Connecticut General Statutes) as may be established by the
Harbor Management Commission and adopted by the Board of Selectmen. Said fee,
payable to the Town of East Lyme, shall accompany the applications. In the
event an application is not approved or the applicant is placed on a waiting
list, the fee shall be returned to the applicant within 30 days after notice of
denial or placement of the applicant on a waiting list. All fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the town’s Harbor Management
Account and shall be used exclusively for maintenance and improvement of the
harbor management area for the public and for expenses for personnel and
equipment directly related to the function of the Harbor Management Commission
and the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master.
   (I)   Mooring permits non-transferable.
      (1)   No transferable rights shall be conferred as the result of the
approval of a mooring location. Whenever the holder of a mooring permit sells
or otherwise parts with possession of the mooring tackle identified in the
mooring permit any arrangement whatsoever, the mooring permit shall expire. The
new possessor, transferee or owner shall have no right to use the mooring space
covered by the mooring permit but may apply for a new permit in his or her own
name.
      (2)   If a mooring permit holder sells or otherwise parts with possession
of the vessel identified in the mooring permit application, he or she may, upon
approval by the Harbor Master, retain the mooring location assigned under the
mooring permit provided that another vessel owned by the permittee is moved
onto the mooring within 30 days (unless the period is extended by the Harbor
Master because of special circumstances such as seasonal constraints). If the
replacement vessel is significantly smaller, larger or of different draft or
type, the Harbor Master shall have the right to relocate the vessel to another,
more suitable mooring if one is available.
   (J)   Transient anchoring.
      (1)   The Harbor Management Commission may designate transient anchorage
areas free from the placement of any moorings. These areas, reserved for the
exclusive, short-term use of recreational vessels shall be available on a
first-come, first-served basis for a period not to exceed seven consecutive
days nor for a total or more than 14 days in any calendar year unless expressly
approved by the Harbor Master.
      (2)   The Harbor Master may require any person anchoring in the harbor
management area to display for inspection for anchors, chains and other
equipment used at such anchoring for soundness of condition.
   (K)   Abandonment of mooring. Any mooring tackle left unused for more than
one calendar year without written permission of the Harbor Management
Commission may be considered abandoned and subject to removal or relocation by
the Harbor Master at the expense of the last permitted owner.
   (L)   Secure berthing and anchoring of vessels.
      (1)   The owner of any vessel moored or anchored within the harbor
management area shall be responsible for causing such vessel to be tied and
secured or anchored with proper care and equipment and in such manner as may be
required to prevent breakaway and resulting damage, and shall thereafter
provide for periodic inspection of the mooring tackle or anchoring equipment as
the Harbor Master deems necessary. Each vessel owner is deemed to be the owner
of the mooring tackle he or she uses.
      (2)   The owner of any vessel moored within the harbor management area
shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the town and its officers, agencies,
agents and employees for any and all claims, damages or losses of any kind,
including legal costs arising out of use of the mooring location assigned to
that owner.
      (3)   All mooring permit holders shall comply with required minimum
standards for mooring tackle provided by the Harbor Management Commission and
shall recognize that minimum standards may not guarantee safety under all
conditions. Storms, wind, waves, tides, currents and surge shall be considered
when selecting appropriate mooring tackle for each vessel. Any person mooring a
vessel within the town harbor management area is responsible for damage to that
vessel or to any other vessel or property caused by the failure of the mooring
tackle.
   (M)   Mooring inspection.
      (1)   Mooring tackle shall be inspected by the Harbor Master or an
approved inspection service at least once every three years to determine
soundness of condition. An inspection verification form provided by the Harbor
Management Commission shall be completed by the inspector and filed with the
Harbor Master to document each required inspection.
      (2)   If it shall be determined that any piece of mooring tackle has
become unsafe or otherwise inadequate, such piece shall be replaced
accordingly. Failure to make such replacement shall be grounds for revocation
of the mooring permit.
   (N)   Marking and identification of approved moorings. All mooring buoys
shall be white with a horizontal blue band around the circumference of the buoy
centered midway between the top of the buoy and the waterline in accordance
with federal and state regulations. The Harbor Management Commission may
require additional marking for identification purposes of all approved mooring
buoys.
   (P)   Relocation and removal of mooring tackle.
      (1)   The Harbor Master may require any mooring or vessel to be moved to
a new location whenever, in his or her judgment, the safety of any other
vessels or optimum use of the mooring area so requires.
      (2)   If directions given by the Harbor Master with respect to removing
unauthorized moorings, changing the location of existing moorings or replacing
mooring tackle determined to be inadequate are not taken by the owner, if
known, within seven days after notification, or, if not known, after notice has
been posted for that period on the vessel or mooring, the Harbor Master may
cause such moorings to be removed or changed or may drop the same to the
bottom. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Harbor Master or his or her
designee from taking measures with or without notice, if, in his or her
judgment, it is necessary in order to provide for the safety of persons or
property. The expense of such mooring removal or relocation and any liability
arising from injury to person or property incurred thereby shall be the
responsibility of the mooring permit holder.
      (3)   Any mooring tackle removed from the harbor management area in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be held at the direction
of the Harbor Master for a period of 30 days from the date of removal. A
reasonable effort shall be made to contact the owner of the mooring tackle, if
known, by telephone, email, letter or any other reasonable means in order to
provide an opportunity for the owner to claim the mooring tackle upon payment
of the expense of removal and any applicable mooring permit fees. If the owner
of the mooring tackle cannot be identified, does not respond to the contact
attempts or refuses to pay the reclamation cost and required permit fees within
the 30-day period, the mooring tackle owner will be presumed to have
relinquished ownership and the Harbor Master may dispose of the removed tackle
at the Harbor Master's discretion.
   (P)   Designation of channels or fairways to be kept free of moorings. For
the purpose of this section, and in order to provide safe navigation access to
all parts of the harbor management area, the Harbor Management Commission, with
the advice of the Harbor Master, is empowered to designate the location of
channels or fairways within which approved moorings shall not be located, and
to make changes in such designations where conditions or needs require.
   (Q)   Suspension of requirements and imposition of emergency requirements.
In order to most effectively respond to any emergency as may be caused by a
severe storm or other natural or man-made conditions, the Harbor Master is
empowered to suspend the requirements of this section and/or impose additional
requirements in the interest of public safety.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.07 MARINE SANITATION.
   (A)   Littering and discharge of pollutants prohibited. No person shall
place, throw, deposit or discharge or cause to be placed, thrown, deposited or
discharged into the harbor management area any litter or other materials,
including, but not limited to, any refuse or waste matter, sewage petroleum
products or by-products, paint, varnish, dead animals or debris of any kind
which renders the waters unsightly, noxious, unwholesome or otherwise
detrimental to the public health or welfare or to the enjoyment of the water
for recreational purposes. Applicable provisions of the Connecticut General
Statutes shall be strictly enforced with respect to discharge of refuse in the
harbor management area.
   (B)   Marine toilets. Pursuant to the designation of all Connecticut waters
as a "no discharge" area pursuant to the federal Clean Water Act, no person
shall discharge sewage from a vessel at any time into the harbor management
area. All discharge requirements set forth in state and federal laws and
regulations shall be strictly enforced.
   (C)   Responsibility for sanitation of facilities. The owner, lessee, agent,
manager or person in charge of any waterfront development or facility adjacent
to the harbor management area shall at all times, maintain the premises under
his or her charge in a clean, sanitary condition, free from malodorous
materials and accumulations of garbage, refuse, debris and other waste
materials.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)  Penalty, see §
152.99
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
HARBOR MANAGEMENT COMMISSION
§ 152.20 ESTABLISHMENT, JURISDICTION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Establishment of the Harbor Management Commission. There is an
existing seven member Harbor Management Commission established by an ordinance
dated June 14, 1986 and re-established by an ordinance effective May 4, 1994
which shall continue to have the powers and duties conferred on such
commissions by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 444a, Revision of 1958, as amended, and
the Harbor Management Commission shall continue as the East Lyme Shellfish
Commission and shall continue to have all of the authority and responsibility
granted to local shellfish commissions by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 492,
Revision of 1958, as amended, except to the extent that the Waterford-East Lyme
Shellfish Commission has been granted powers and duties by Conn. Gen. Stat. §
26-287.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Commission shall continue to have jurisdiction over
the navigable waters as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 15-3a(b), within the town
harbor management area as defined in §
152.02. The Commission shall continue to have charge of all the shellfisheries
and shellfish grounds lying in the town not granted to the Waterford-East Lyme
Shellfish Commission by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 26-287, Revision of 1958, as
amended, and not under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Agriculture,
including all river, inland waters and flats adjacent to all beaches and waters
within the limits and marine bounds (below the mean high water line) of the
town.
   (C)   Membership and terms of service. The members of the Harbor Management
Commission shall continue to be appointed by the Board of Selectmen in the
following manner: four terms were filled by appointment for four-year terms
until the first Monday of January, 2020, and three for terms to expire on the
first Monday of January, 2022, at which time they will continue to be filled by
appointment for terms of four years. Vacancies shall be filled by the Board of
Selectmen in accordance with
Chapter 4 of the Charter. The Harbor Master shall continue to be a non-voting
ex officio member of the Commission, and if there shall be a vacancy in the
office of the Harbor Master, the Deputy Harbor Master shall so serve until the
vacancy is filled.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.21 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The Commission may adopt and publish such rules
and regulations as may be required to implement its responsibilities as herein
provided, including but not limited to responsibilities for managing the
mooring and anchoring of all vessels in the harbor management area.
      (1)   Prior to adopting any such rules and regulations, the Commission
shall conduct a public hearing for the purpose of considering their adoption.
Notice of the time and place of such public hearing, which notice shall include
the title and summary of the rules or regulations proposed, shall be published
twice in a local newspaper having substantial circulation in the town at least
five days, but not more than 15 days, prior to the date of said hearing. A copy
of the full text of the proposed regulation or rules shall be filed in the
office of the Town Clerk for public inspection at least ten days prior to such
hearing.
      (2)   Following such public hearing, the Commission shall act upon such
rules and may make such changes or alterations in the form or content of the
proposed rules or regulations as seen appropriate or necessary as a result of
the public hearing held in connection therewith. Such changes, additions or
alterations shall not require further public notice.
      (3)   Such rules, if adopted by the Commission and after approval by the
Board of Selectmen of the town, shall become effective after publication once
in a local newspaper having substantial circulation in the town within 21 days
following Board of Selectmen approval.
   (B)   Harbor management plan. The Harbor Management Commission shall
implement the town harbor management plan as amended in 2019 and adopted by the
Harbor Management Commission and Board of Selectmen on September 4, 2019 and
effective ten days after the publication of the notice of the adoption of this
chapter, and approved by the state in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-
113m. The Commission shall provide for review of the plan and shall make any
additions and/or modifications to the plan that may be deemed appropriate
subject to the process set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113m through 22a-
113o or other subsequent harbor management legislation enacted by the
Connecticut General Assembly.
   (C)   Harbor management chapter. The Commission shall review town ordinances
affecting harbor management and recommend any necessary changes. The Commission
shall submit recommendations for ordinances required to implement the harbor
management plan to the Board of Selectmen for adoption.
   (D)   Review of development proposals. The Commission shall have the
authority to review and make recommendations on proposals affecting real
property on, in or contiguous to the town’s harbor management area as submitted
to or proposed by any commission or department of the town and any agency of
the state or federal government. Such review shall be in accordance with
requirements set forth in this chapter and in state and federal laws,
regulations and other requirements, including but not limited to the harbor
management provisions of the Connecticut General Statutes.
   (E)   Operating budget. The Commission shall prepare and present to the
Board of Selectmen an annual operating budget. The operating budget shall
include a section reflecting estimated revenues and a section covering
requested expenses by project or activity.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.22 CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION WITH OTHER TOWN BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
AND STATE AND FEDERAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   Harbor management plan consistency review. A town “harbor management
consistency review” process shall be carried out by the Harbor Management
Commission to ensure effective implementation of the harbor management plan and
to provide coordinated, efficient and comprehensive review of the proposed
projects and activities affecting the harbor management area.
   (B)   Coordinating with other town boards and commissions. As authorized by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113p, the Harbor Management Commission may review, and
make recommendations consistent with the harbor management plan, on any
proposal affecting the real property on, in or contiguous to the harbor
management area as submitted to, or proposed by, all other town commissions and
departments, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Planning Commission;
      (2)   Zoning Commission;
      (3)   Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (4)   Water and Sewer Commission;
      (5)   Department of Public Works;
      (6)   Parks and Recreation Commission;
      (7)   Economic Development Commission; and
      (8)   Conservation Commission.
   (C)   Proposals subject to consistency review. The Harbor Management
Commission may review for consistency with the harbor management plan:
      (1)   All development proposals subject to the town’s coastal site plan
review process and located on parcels contiguous to the harbor management area,
with the exception of one- and two-family dwellings;
      (2)   All proposed uses or activities occurring waterward of the coastal
jurisdictional line, including, but not limited to, proposed uses or activities
subject to state and federal coastal regulatory programs; and
      (3)   All proposed revisions and amendments to town plans, rules and
regulations affecting the harbor management area and real property on, in or
contiguous to the harbor management area, including, but not limited to,
proposed revisions and amendments to the zoning regulations and plan of
conservation and development, regulations for use of the town beaches and boat
launching facilities, and regulations governing tidal wetlands and flood and
erosion control.
   (D)   Referral schedule. 
      (1)   The town boards and commissions identified in division (B) above
shall send to the Harbor Management Commission a copy of any proposal subject
to the harbor management consistency review process at the request of the
Commission. The Commission shall be notified of any such proposal at least 35
days prior to the commencement of any hearings thereon or, where no hearing is
held, at least 35 days prior to the taking of any final action on the proposal.
      (2)   Review of applications to state and federal governmental agencies
shall be in accordance with the schedules set forth in the applicable state and
federal regulatory programs.
   (E)   Determination of consistency. The Harbor Management Commission shall
determine the consistency of proposed projects with the harbor management plan
and make recommendations to the appropriate board or commission, or state or
federal agency. The local agency authorized to act on the proposal shall
consider the recommendations of the Commission. A two-thirds vote of all the
members of the local agency having authority to act on the proposal shall be
required to approve a proposal which has not received a favorable
recommendation from the Commission, provided that the provisions of this
section shall not be deemed to alter the authority of the agency having primary
jurisdiction over the proposal to deny, modify or condition the proposal.
Failure of the Commission to submit a recommendation to another town agency
acting on a proposal affecting the real property on, in or contiguous to the
harbor management area shall be deemed to be approval of the proposal.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates any section of this chapter in any portion of
the harbor management area shall be liable to a fine of $50 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues after seven days following notification of
the offending party or, if the offending party is not known, after notice has
been posted for that time on any vessel, mooring tackle or other object that is
the cause of the violation, shall be considered a separate offense. The
provisions of this division (B) are in addition to and do not supersede any
penalties resulting from simultaneous violations of state or federal laws.
Fines levied under the provisions of this chapter shall be collected by the
town and deposited into the town Harbor Management Account, as set forth in §
152.04(D).
   (B)   Any person who obstructs, resists or willfully refuses to obey the
order of the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master for the stationing of a
vessel in accordance with this chapter shall be subject to the fines and
penalties set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 15-8 and other applicable sections of
the Connecticut General Statutes, enforceable by any duly authorized police
officer of the town.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter relating to mooring
permits may, after due notice, result in revocation of the mooring permit by
the Harbor Master. Any party aggrieved by any decision pertaining to an action
by the Harbor Master may submit a request in writing to the Harbor Management
Commission to review that decision with respect to this chapter and the harbor
management plan. Such request shall be submitted within 30 days of the date of
the decision. The Commission shall review the decision and render a finding on
the matter within 60 days of receipt of the aggrieved party's written request.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 20, page 144
CHAPTER 153: INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES
Section
   
153.01   Inland Wetlands Agency established
   
153.02   Fees for Inland Wetlands Agency
   
153.03   Fines for violation of inland wetlands and watercourses regulations
§ 153.01 INLAND WETLANDS AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Whereas clauses:
      (1)   WHEREAS, by an ordinance adopted on June 20, 1966 entitled
“Ordinance Establishing a Conservation Commission for the Development and
Conservation of Natural Resources, including Water Resources, Within East Lyme”
the town created a Conservation Commission with the powers and duties of
conservation commissions as set forth in the General Statutes; and
      (2)   WHEREAS, by an ordinance adopted on April 24, 1975 entitled
“Ordinance Concerning Inland Wetlands and Watercourses” the town designated the
Conservation Commission as its inland wetlands agency, and authorized it to
exercise the powers and duties of inland wetlands agencies as set forth in the
General Statutes; and
      (3)   WHEREAS, the volume of business regarding the Commission’s duties
as the town’s inland wetlands agency has become such that it is burdensome for
the Commission to attend to its duties as the town’s Conservation Commission;
and
      (4)   WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that the Commission continue
to exercise its powers and duties as the town’s inland wetlands agency, and
that the Commission’s powers and duties of the town’s Conservation Commission
be assigned to another commission.
   (B)   The name of the Conservation Commission is hereby changed to the
Inland Wetlands Agency.
   (C)   The Inland Wetlands Agency shall continue to act as the town’s
designated and authorized inland wetlands agency, with all the authority,
powers and responsibilities of local inland wetlands agencies set forth in
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§22a-42 et seq., as amended from time to time. All
regulations heretofore adopted by the Conservation Commission shall remain in
full force and effect. All matters pending before the Conservation Commission
on the effective date of this amendment including, but not limited to,
applications, permits, hearings investigations, enforcement actions and open or
pending items of business of any nature whatsoever shall continue to be pending
before and administered by the Inland Wetlands Agency.
   (D)   (1)   Effective July 1, 1966 there is constituted a seven member
Inland Wetlands Agency (fka Conservation Commission) which shall have the
duties and powers set forth in the General Statutes.
      (2)   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen. The Board of Selectmen may consult with local and regional
organizations interested in conservation of natural resources at the time of
making original appointments and filling vacancies.
      (3)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed in the following
manner: four terms shall be filled by appointment to expire on the first Monday
of January, 1968 and three terms shall be filled by appointment to expire on
the first Monday of January, 1970. The four terms that expire in January, 1968
shall be filled by appointment for four years. The three terms that expire in
January, 1970 shall be filled by appointment for four years.
   (E)   (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Public Act 79-84 of the
General Assembly, and in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Charter, there shall
be three alternate members of the Inland Wetlands Agency appointed by the Board
of Selectmen.
      (2)   Two terms shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 1982, at which time they shall be filled by appointment for four
years. One term shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 1984, at which time it shall be filled by appointment for four years.
Upon their expiration, all terms shall be filled by appointment for four years.
(Ord. passed 6-20-1966; Ord. passed 4-24-1975; Ord. passed 12-11-1979; Ord.
passed 5-15-2008)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 9, page 233;    TM Volume 22, page 787, Amended; See Page 92:
Alternates to Conservation Commission
   TM Volume 22 page 787; TM Volume 11, pages 135, 145; TM Volume 12, page 95,
Amended
   TM Volume 13, page 326
§ 153.02 FEES FOR INLAND WETLANDS AGENCY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1C, Revision
of 1958, the following schedule of fees recommended by the Inland Wetlands
Agency is established.
Application fee **
   Commercial uses                                       $400
      Plus fee from Schedule A
   Residential uses                                      $150 plus* $50/lot
      Plus fee from Schedule A
   All other uses                                        $200
      Plus fee from Schedule A
   *Each lot with regulated activities
   **$30 fee required by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-27j will be added to the base
fees
Appeal of duly authorized agent decision                    $300
Approval by duly authorized agent **                        $100
Complex application fee                                     Actual cost
   The Inland Wetlands Agency may charge an additional fee sufficient to cover
the cost of reviewing and acting on complex applications. Such fee may
include, but not be limited to, the cost of retaining experts, to advise,
analyze, review and report on issues requiring such experts. The Agency or the
duly authorized agent shall estimate the complex application fee, which shall
be paid pursuant to § 19.1 of the Inland Wetland and Watercourses regulations
within 10 days of the applicant’s receipt or notice of such estimate. Any
portion of the complex application fee in excess of the actual cost shall be
refunded to the applicant no later than 30 days after publication of the
agency’s decision.
Modification of previous approval                           $100
Monitoring compliance fee                                   $100
Permitted and nonregulated uses
   Permitted uses as of right                            $0
   Nonregulated                                          $0
Public hearing fee                                           
   Single residential                                    $200
   Commercial/industrial/multi-family                    $450
Regulation amendment petitions (does not include notices or $500
regulation advisories from DEP)
   Map amendment petitions                               $500
      Plus fee from Schedule B
Renewal of previous approval                                $100
Significant activity fee                                    $300
 
Schedule A
For the purpose of calculating the permit application fee, the area in
Schedule A is the total area of wetlands and watercourses and the upland
review area upon which a regulated activity is proposed
Square Feet of Area
Less than 1,000     $0
1,000 to 5,000      $250
More than 5,000     $750
 
Schedule B
For the purpose of calculating the map amendment petition fee, linear feet in
Schedule B is the total length of wetlands and watercourses boundary subject
to the proposed boundary change
Linear Feet      
Less than 500   $0
500 to 1,000    $250
More than 1,000 $750
 
   (B)   Fees shall be payable at the time an application is submitted, except
as otherwise provided.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1988; Ord. passed 3-30-1989; Ord. passed 1-18-1995; Ord.
passed 11-9-2001; Ord. passed 2-23-2003; Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 11-
17-2004; Ord. passed 5-16-2007; Ord. passed 6-19-2008; Ord. effective 7-1-2011)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 16, page 213; TM Volume 16, page 353, amended; TM Volume 21, page
6, Amended; TM Volume 21, page 626, Amended; TM Volume 22, page 113, Amended;
TM Volume 22, page 247; TM Volume 22, page 345, Amended fees; TM Volume 22,
page 455; Amended; TM Volume 22, page 674, Amended; TM Volume 22, page 789,
Amended
   TM Volume 21, page 2
§ 153.03 FINES FOR VIOLATION OF INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Citations. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-42g, as amended, the
Inland Wetlands Agency is hereby authorized to issue citations for violations
of the inland wetlands and watercourses regulations of the Agency.
   (B)   Fines; schedule of fines.
      (1)   A fine for each violation shall not exceed $1,000. Such fines, when
paid, shall be paid to the Treasurer of the town and deposited in the General
Fund or a special fund designated by the town. No such fine may be levied
against the state or any employee of the state acting within the scope of his
or her employment.
      (2)   Fines for each citation shall be in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Nature of Violation                                                            Fine
Regulated activities conducted without a permit in the upland review area      $500
(within 100 ft. of a wetland or watercourse)
Regulated activities conducted without a permit in a wetland or watercourse    $1,000
Regulated activities conducted without a permit that under § 12 of the Inland
Wetland and Watercourses regulations would have been eligible for an           $15
administrative approval from the wetlands agent
 
   (C)   Who may issue citations. Citations made pursuant to this section may
be issued by a police officer or by any other person authorized by the First
Selectman to do so.
   (D)   Manner of service. A citation issued pursuant to this section may be
served by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
person named in the citation. If the person named in the citation refuses to
accept the citation sent by certified mail, the citation may be sent by regular
United States mail.
   (E)   Payment of fines. A person who receives a citation may make
uncontested payment of the imposed fine within 30 days of receipt of the
citation. If the citation has been sent by regular mail, the date of receipt
shall be the third business day following the date of the citation.
   (F)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   Any person issued a citation under this section shall be entitled
to a hearing. The procedure for the hearing, disposition and enforcement shall
be in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c entitled “Hearing Procedure for
Citations,” as it may be amended from time to time and as set forth herein.
      (2)   The First Selectman shall appoint one or more Citation Hearing
Officers to conduct the hearings held pursuant to this section. A Citation
Hearing Officer shall not be a police officer or a town employee or a member of
the Inland Wetlands Agency.
      (3)   (a)   At any time within the 12 months of the expiration of the
time period for the payment of uncontested fines, penalties, costs or fees
assessed under this section the town shall send a notice to the person cited.
         (b)   The notice shall inform the person cited:
            1.   Of the allegations against him or her and the amount of the
fines;
            2.   That he or she may contest his or her liability before a
Citation Hearing Officer by delivering in person or by mail written notice
within ten days of the date thereof;
            3.   That if he or she does not demand such a hearing, an
assessment and judgment shall be entered against him or her; and
            4.   That such judgment may enter without further notice.
      (4)   If the person who is sent notice pursuant to division (F)(3) above
wishes to admit liability for an alleged violation, he or she may, without
requesting a hearing, pay the full amount of the fine in person or by mail to
an official designated by the town. Such payment shall be inadmissable in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of such person or other
person making the payment. Any person who does not deliver or mail written
demand for a hearing within ten days of the date of the first notice provided
for in division (F)(3) above shall be deemed to have admitted liability, and
the designated municipal official shall certify such person’s failure to
respond to the Citation Hearing Officer. The Citation Hearing Officer shall
thereupon enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees provided for by
this section and shall follow the procedures set forth in division (F)(6)
below.
      (5)   Any person who requests a hearing shall be given written notice of
the date, time and place for the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not less
than 15 days and not more than 30 days from the date of the mailing of notice,
provided the Hearing Officer shall grant upon good cause shown any reasonable
request by an interested party for postponement or continuance. An original or
certified copy of the initial notice of violation issued by the issuing
official or police officer shall be filed and retained by the municipality, and
shall be deemed a business record within the scope of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-180
and evidence of the facts contained therein. The presence of the issuing
official or police officer shall be required at the hearing if such person so
requests. A person wishing to contest his or her liability shall appear at the
hearing and may present evidence on his or her behalf. A designated municipal
official, other than the Citation Hearing Officer, may present evidence on
behalf of the town. If such person fails to appear, the Citation Hearing
Officer may enter an assessment by default against him or her upon a finding of
proper notice and liability under the applicable provisions of the inland
wetlands and watercourses regulations and this ordinance. The Citation Hearing
Officer may accept from the person who received the citation copies of police
reports, investigatory and citation reports, and other official documents by
mail and may determine thereby that the appearance of such person is
unnecessary. The Citation Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing in the
order and form and with such methods of proof as he or she deems fair and
appropriate. The rules regarding the admissibility of evidence shall not be
strictly applied, but all testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
The Citation Hearing Officer shall announce his or her decision at the end of
the hearing. If he or she determines that the person is not liable, he or she
shall dismiss the matter and enter his or her decision in writing accordingly.
If he or she determines that the person is liable for the violation, he or she
shall forthwith enter and assess the fines against such person as provided by
this section.
      (6)   If such assessment is not paid on the date of its entry, the
Citation Hearing Officer shall send by first class mail a notice of the
assessment to the person found liable and shall file, not less than 30 days nor
more than 12 months after such mailing, a certified copy of the notice of
assessment with the Clerk of the Superior Court for Geographical Area Number 10
together with an entry fee of $8. The certified copy of the notice of
assessment shall constitute a record of assessment. Within such 12-month
period, assessments against the same person may be accrued and filed as one
record of assessment and court costs of $8, against such person in favor of the
town. Notwithstanding any other provision of the General Statutes, the Hearing
Officer’s assessment, when so entered as judgment shall have the effect of a
civil money judgment and a levy of execution on such judgment may issue without
further notice to such person.
      (7)   A person against whom an assessment has been entered pursuant to
this section is entitled to judicial review by way of appeal. An appeal shall
be instituted within 30 days of the mailing notice of such assessment by filing
a petition to reopen assessment, together with an entry fee in an amount equal
to the entry fee for small claims cases pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-259,
in the Superior Court for Geographical Area Number 10, which shall entitle such
person to a hearing in accordance with the rules of judges of the Superior
Court.
   (G)   Cumulative remedies. The fines set forth in this section shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of any other penalties or remedies for violations
of inland wetlands and watercourses regulations of the town, as more
particularly set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-44, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2008)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 22 page 787A
CHAPTER 154: HISTORIC PROPERTIES
Section
   
154.01   Designation of historic property
   
154.02   Establishment of Historic Properties Commission
   
154.03   Appointment of Commission members
   
154.04   Alternate members
   
154.05   Commission functions and purposes
§ 154.01 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTY.
   The Board of Selectmen, having received and reviewed the final report of the
East Lyme Historic Properties Study Committee prepared in accordance with Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 7-147q, finds that the hereinafter described properties are
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology and culture of the town
and the state and that the distinctive characteristics of said properties
should be preserved and protected, and hereby designates the following as
historic properties in the town:
   (A)   First Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, with the buildings
thereon, located on the southerly side of the West Main Street, known generally
as the “Thomas Lee House”, more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point that marks the northwesterly corner of the herein
described parcel, said point located N 60 degrees 01' 20" E 189.91 feet from a
Connecticut Highway Department monument recovered located at the intersection
of Giants Neck Road and West Main Street; thence S 22 degrees 23' 40" E 127.25
feet to a point; thence N 79 degrees 11' 02" E 61.66 feet to a point; thence N
01 degrees 46' 00" E 66.80 feet to a point; thence N 21 degrees 59' 00" W 90.45
feet to a point, said point being at the southerly side of West Main Street,
the last four courses being along land now or formerly of the town of East
Lyme; thence S 60 degrees 01' 20" W 89.17 feet along the southerly side of West
Main Street to the point and place of beginning.
The above described parcel of land with improvements contains 11,586 square
feet and is depicted on a certain map entitled BOUNDARY SURVEY WEST MAIN STREET
& GIANTS NECK ROAD EAST LYME, CT. PREPARED FOR THE EAST LYME HISTORICAL
SOCIETY, INC. AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION STATE OF
CONNECTICUT D.E.P. #0441998112001 SCALE 1" = 40' NOV. 20, 1998 REV 2/20/99 AND
REV 2/29/00 and signed and sealed by DAVID M. COONROD L.L.S. NIANTIC, CT. on
file with the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, to which
references may be had (hereinafter “the Map”).
Reference may be had to a certain Warrantee Deed from Jerome R. Rathbun to The
East Lyme Historical Society dated April 20, 1914 and recorded at Volume 17
Page 307 of the East Lyme land records. In the event of any discrepancy, the
Map shall control.
   (B)   Second Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, with the buildings
thereon, located on the southerly side of West Main Street, known generally as
the “Little Boston School House”, the “Lee House Barn” and related buildings,
more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a Connecticut Highway Department monument recovered, located at
the intersection of Giants Neck Road and West Main Street which marks the
northwest corner of land of the State of Connecticut to be conveyed; thence N
60 degrees 01' 20" E 189.91 feet along the southerly side of West Main Street
to a point; thence S 22 degrees 23' 40" E 127.25 feet to a point, thence N 79
degrees 11' 02" E 61.66 feet to a point, thence N 01 degrees 46' 00" E 66.80
feet to a point, thence N 21 degrees 59' 00" W 90.45 feet to a point, the last
four courses along land now or formerly East Lyme Historical Society; thence N
60 degrees 01' 20" E 23.42 feet to a Connecticut highway Department monument
recovered, thence N 56 degrees 37' 08" E 148.49 feet to an iron pin recovered,
the last two courses along the southerly side of West Main Street, thence S 35
degrees, 02' 00" E 284.42 feet to a point; thence S 35 degrees 45' 27" E 108.07
feet to a point in a brook, the last two courses along land now or formerly
Phyllis Perkins; thence S 33 degrees 39' 26" W 240.81 feet to an iron pin set,
the last course along other land of the State of Connecticut, thence N 27
degrees 38' 08" W 108 feet to a point along land now or formerly Paul and Joyce
Riccio; thence N 27 degrees 38' 08" W 75.00 feet to an iron pin set; thence S
69 degrees 39' 11" W 203.37 feet to an iron pin recovered; thence S 56 degrees
07' 53" W 65.46 feet to an iron pin recovered, the last three courses along
land now or formerly Robert Ashburn, thence the following two courses along the
east side of Giants Neck Road, N 35 degrees 51' 03" W 200.00 feet to an iron
pin set, thence N 24 degrees 10' 30" W 77.98 feet to the point and place of
beginning.
The above-described parcel of land with improvements contains 3.497 acres and
is depicted on a certain map entitled BOUNDARY SURVEY WEST MAIN STREET & GIANTS
NECK ROAD EAST LYME, CT PREPARED FOR THE EAST LYME HISTORICAL SOCIETY, INC AND
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION STATE OF CONNECTICUT D.E.P.
#0441998112001 SCALE 1" = 40' NOV 20, 1998 REV 2/20/99 AND REV 2/29/00 and
signed and sealed by DAVID M COONROD LLS NIANTIC CT. on file with the
Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, to which references may be
had (hereinafter “the Map”).
Being the same premises bounded and described within Public Act 98-255 Sec 15
(a). Being the same premises bounded and described in a certain lease between
the Town of East Lyme and the East Lyme Historical Society dated January 1,
2001 and recorded at Volume 515 Page 248 of the East Lyme land records. In the
event of any discrepancy, the Map shall control.
   (C)   Third Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, together with the
buildings and improvements located thereon, located on the northerly side of
Plants Dam Road, known generally as the “Samuel Smith House”, more particularly
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a Drill Hole, which is on the northerly side of Plants Dam Road
and approximately 65' west of North Bride Brook Road; thence Northwesterly
along a centerline of a brook a distance of 768+/- to a Point connected by a
survey tie line North 30 degrees 01' 35" West a distance of 753.03; thence
South 84 degrees 24' 11" West a distance of 534.36 to a Point; thence South 12
degrees 12'45" East a distance of 300.97 to an Iron Pin; thence North 81
degrees 43'16" East a distance of 110.97 to a Point; thence North 89 degrees
02'26" East a distance of 22.48 to a Drill Hole; thence North 84 degrees 01'07"
East a distance of 77.37 to a Point; thence South 86 degrees 55'05" East a
distance of 10.68 to a Point; thence North 85 degrees 12'39" East a distance of
139.04 to a Drill Hole; thence North 82 degrees 54'28" East a distance of
146.23 to a Drill Hole; thence North 78 degrees 10'39" East a distance of
108.14 to a Point; thence North76 degrees 51'12" East a distance of 149.57 to a
Drill Hole; to the Point of Beginning; containing 10.09 acres +/-.
Being the same premises bounded and described on a map in a certain “Easements,
Declaration of Covenants and Declaration of Preservation Restrictions” from the
Town of East Lyme to the State of Connecticut acting by the State Historic
Preservation Office dated April 25, 2013 and recorded in Volume 914, Page 380
of the East Lyme land records. In the event of any discrepancy, the Map shall
control.
(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended
§ 154.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES COMMISSION.
   There is an existing five member Historic Properties Commission established
by an ordinance dated August 11, 2009 and effective September 16, 2009. Said
Commission shall continue to administer the provisions of the Connecticut
General Statutes relative to the historic properties now or hereafter
designated by the town, with all the authority, powers and responsibilities of
historic properties commissions set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-147r, as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended
§ 154.03 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   The members of the Commission shall continue to be appointed in the
following manner: three terms were filled by appointment until the first Monday
of January, 2010, at which time they were filled by appointment for four years.
Two terms were filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2012,
at which time they will continue to be filled by appointment for four years.
(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended
§ 154.04 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   There shall continue to be three alternate members of the Commission. The
terms of two alternate members were filled by appointment until the first
Monday of January, 2010, at which time they shall continue to be filled by
appointment for four years. The term of the other alternate member shall
continue to be filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2012,
and will continue to be filled by appointment for four years. Such alternate
members shall, when seated, have all the powers and duties of a member of the
Commission.
(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended
§ 154.05 COMMISSION FUNCTIONS AND PURPOSES.
   The Historic Properties Commission shall continue to perform all of the
functions and purposes set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-147p through 7-147y,
inclusive.
(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)
Editor’s note:
   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING COMMISSION, ZONING COMMISSION AND
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
   
155.01   Fees
§ 155.01 FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1C, Revision
of 1958, the following schedule of fees recommended by the respective
Commissions is established
      (1)   Planning Commission.
         (a)   Subdivision application review. For subdivisions and re-
subdivisions, the following fees shall be paid at the time of application to
the Planning Commission:
 
Base fee                          $750
Fee per lot                       $100
Professional/legal consultations  Actual cost
Public hearing fee, if applicable $1,250
Road/utility design review fee    $1/linear foot of new road
The application fee shall include such additional fees that are required by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-27j, as it may be amended from time to time
 
         (b)   Subdivision application processing and inspection. Upon approval
of a subdivision/re-subdivision by the Planning Commission, the following fees
shall be paid prior to Chair’s signing the approved subdivision plan:
 
Base fee                         $100
Erosion control fee              Per lot $50
Inspection fee                   $2/linear foot of new road
Per lot fee                      $100
Road/utility document review fee $500
 
         (c)   Coastal area management review application. $10/lot; $25 minute.
          (d)   Application for subdivision modification. $200.
      (3)   Zoning Commission.
Coastal area management site plan
   Coastal area management site plan (commercial, industrial, multi-family) $300
   Coastal area management site plan (new single-family dwelling and        $200
additions)
Commercial site plan                                                           $300
Lot split                                                                      $200
New business registration
   Commercial/industrial                                                    $50
   Home occupation                                                          $25
Special permit                                                                 $150
   Special permit (multi-family, commercial, industrial, top-soil, sand and $500
gravel, plus storm water review fee and site plan review fee
   Special permit patio permit (renewal)                                    $20
Stormwater review                                                              $300
Zone change (including map change)                                             $400
Zoning permit (commercial/industrial/institutional additions), plus site plan
review fee and storm water review fee
   Over 1,500 sq. feet                                                      $300
   Under 1,500 sq. feet                                                     $100
Zoning permit (commercial/industrial/institutional alterations)
   Under 1,500 sq. feet                                                     $100
   Over 1,500 sq. feet                                                      $200
Zoning permit new commercial/institutional buildings, plus site plan review
fee and storm water review fee
   Over 25,000 sq. feet, plus $10 per sq. foot gross floor area             $2,000
   Up to 25,000 sq. feet                                                    $500
Zoning permit (multi-family dwellings each unit)                               $300
Zoning permit (new single-family dwellings, including new individual units of  $300
multi-family dwellings)
Zoning permit (single-family alterations)                                      $75
   Zoning permit single-family
      Dwelling additions, under 1,000 sq. feet                           $100
      Dwelling additions, over 1,000 sq. feet                            $200
         Zoning permit pools                                          $50
         Zoning permit accessory structure
            Over 150 sq. feet                                      $50
            Under 150 sq. feet                                     $20
Zoning regulation change                                                       $300
Zoning status opinion (mortgage)                                               $50
The application fees shall include such additional fees that are required by Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 22a-27i, as it may be amended from time to time. The current fee is $30.
 
      (4)   Zoning Board of Appeals.
 
Application fee payable to Zoning Board of Appeals $350
 
   (B)   Fees shall be payable at the time an application is submitted, except
as otherwise provided.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1988; Ord. passed 3-30-1989; Ord. passed 1-18-1995; Ord.
passed 11-9-2001; Ord. passed 2-23-2003; Ord. passed 2-10-2004; Ord. passed 11-
17-2004; Ord. passed 5-16-2007; Ord. passed 6-19-2008; Ord. effective 7-1-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   PUBLIC ACTS AND SPECIAL LAWS OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME
      
II.   ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IV.   AGREEMENTS
      
V.   WATER
      
VI.   SEWERS
TABLE I: PUBLIC ACTS AND SPECIAL LAWS OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME
Editor’s note:
   Complete copies of all Public Acts and Special Laws of the Town of East Lyme
are available at the Town Hall.
Public Act/Special Law Date Approved Description
Public Act/ Date Approved    Description
Special Law
Special
Laws Vol.   - -              An Act incorporating the Town of East Lyme.
4, page
1242
Special
Laws Vol.   Passed 1840      Mileage of the Town of East Lyme.
4, page
1244
Special
Laws Vol.   Passed 1841      Changing name of Second School Society of Lyme to the First School Society of
4, page                      East Lyme.
1166
Special
Laws Vol.   Passed 1844      Annexing Austin F. Perkins to Second School District in East Lyme.
4, page
1135
Special                      Providing for the appointment of a trustee of the fund devised by Elisha
Laws Vol.   7-24-1868        Miller, late of Lyme, deceased, for school purposes.
6, page 403
Special
Laws Vol.   4-14-1881        An Act relating to the encampment of the Connecticut National Guard.
9, page 238
House Joint 4-14-1882        An Act incorporating the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp- Meeting Association.
Res. 25
Special
Laws Vol.   3-28-1883        Establishing school district lines in the Town of East Lyme.
9, page 758
Special                      Providing for the purchase of Niantic Bridge by the Towns of East Lyme and
Laws Vol.   5-3-1883         Waterford.
9, page 849
Special
Laws Vol.   3-5-1884         Concerning the Smith Memorial Home.
9, page 923
Special
Laws Vol.   3-6-1885         Changing school district boundaries in East Lyme.
10, page 28
Special
Laws Vol.   Passed 3-26-1886 Concerning the Niantic Burying Ground in East Lyme.
10, page
312
Special
Laws Vol.   5-25-1893        In favor of the Town of East Lyme; burial expenses of Marshall Dean.
11, page
574
Special
Laws Vol.   3-17-1897        An Act relating to the encampment of the Connecticut National Guard.
12, page
733
Special
Laws Vol.   4-18-1899        Amending an act dividing the Town of East Lyme into two voting districts.
13, page
141
TM Volume
11, page    11-6-1973        Repealed by referendum.
312
TM Volume                   Changed to three districts.
21, page 5
Special
Laws Vol.   3-15-1903        Incorporating the East Lyme Fire District.
14, page
223
Special
Laws Vol.   4-5-1905         Providing for the payment of the funeral expenses of Peter Dyer.
14, page
562
Special
Laws Vol.   7-18-1905        Concerning the purchase by the state of the Rope Ferry Bridge.
14, page
1095
Special                      An Act making an appropriation for the maintenance of the Drawbridge across the
Laws Vol.   7-25-1911        Niantic River between the Towns of East Lyme and Waterford; for the two years
16, page                     ending September 30, 1913.
377
Special
Laws Vol.                   An Act directing the Highway Commissioner to construct a bridge over the
17, page                     Niantic River between the Towns of East Lyme and Waterford.
1155
State of    Senate, 5-17-    Reconsidered and passed by Yeas and Nays: Yeas 23, Nays 8, the objections of
Connecticut 1917             the Governor notwithstanding. John Buckley, Clerk.
State of    House of         Reconsidered and passed by Yeas and Nays: Yeas 220, Nays 16, the objections of
Connecticut Representatives, the Governor notwithstanding. Edward J. Kenealy, Clerk.
            5-17-1917
Special
Laws Vol.   9-5-1911         An Act concerning the organization of districts for fire, sewer and other
16, page                     purposes.
597
Special
Laws Vol.   5-16-1917        An Act granting to the Town of East Lyme the use of certain property for
17, page                     highway purposes.
1078
Special
Laws Vol.   3-29-1921        An Act authorizing the Selectmen of the Town of East Lyme to sell the
18, page                     schoolhouse in Flanders.
375
Special
Laws Vol.   6-8-1937         An Act concerning exchange of land between the state and residents in the Town
22, page                     of Lyme, Old Lyme and East Lyme at Stone’s Ranch.
797
Special
Laws Vol.   4-4-1935         An Act including a highway in the Town of East Lyme in the trunk line system.
22, page 75
Special
Laws Vol.   5-2-1939         An Act including a highway in the Town of East Lyme in the trunk line system;
23, page                     Bride Brook Road.
124
Special     6-3-1939         An Act providing for biennial elections in the Town of East Lyme. (Many
Laws Vol.   Approved by town portions of this Act no longer in effect.)
22, page 66 meeting 8-1-1939
           Received 4-30-   Perambulations of town line Lyme and East Lyme. (Note: recorded in either Lyme
            1940             or Old Lyme.)
Special
Laws Vol.   6-16-1941        An Act authorizing the Town of East Lyme to construct a water system.
23, page
1000
Special
Acts 1951,
Page 70     5-16-1951        An Act providing for the appointment of an Assessor and for the filing of
TM Volume                    assessment lists in the Town of East Lyme; repealed 11-6-1973 by referendum.
11, page
312
House Bill                   An Act authorizing the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp-Meeting Association to
No. 1462    7-8-1955         levy a tax.
(417)
Special                      An Act changing the property tax assessment date in the Town of East Lyme. See
Acts 1955,  7-8-1955         Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-62a (1995).
page 404
Special
Acts 1955,  8-11-1955        An Act validating notice of sale by the Tax Collector of the Town of East Lyme.
page 654
Special
Acts 1957,  4-3-1957         An Act concerning the filing of assessment abstracts in the Town of East Lyme.
page 23
Substitute
for House                    An Act authorizing the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp-Meeting Association to
Bill No.    7-17-1957        levy a tax.
1935
(619)
Special
Acts Vol.   5-22-1969        An Act including the Towns of Lyme, Old Lyme, East Lyme, Haddam and East Haddam
34, page                     in the franchise area of the Southern Connecticut Gas Company.
176
Special
Acts, Vol.  6-19-1969        An Act authorizing the Town of East Lyme to acquire a section of Colton Road in
34, page                     the Town of Old Lyme.
257
Special
Acts Vol.   7-2-1969         An Act concerning an appropriation to the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish
34, page                     Commission.
329
Special Act
293
(Section
29) of the
1969
Session of  7-8-1969         Shore erosion control project at Giant’s Neck.
the General
Assembly
Special
Acts, Vol.
34, page
384
Public Act
No. 33 of
the 1971
Session of
the General
Assembly
Special     4-9-1971         An Act concerning the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission.
Acts
January
Session,
1971 Vol.
1, page 53
(Vol. 35)
Special Act
Vol. 35,
page 26
January     5-5-1971         An Act concerning conveyance of land of the state to the Town of East Lyme and
Session                      grant of two easements to said town.
1971, 1972
Vol. 36
(none)
Special Act
No. 73-138
Special     6-21-1973        An Act granting easements to the town of East Lyme (re well sites and
Acts Vol.   (vol 3 of set)   easements).
37, page
231
Special Act 5-30-1975        An Act creating the Pine Grove, Niantic Association.
No. 75-43
Special Act
No. 77-68
Special Act
Vol. 2,
page 77,    6-20-1977        An Act concerning the conveyance of land to the Town of East Lyme.
part 2,
January
Session
1977
Special Act 3-29-1978        An Act concerning the correction of errors in a property conveyance to the Town
No. 78-3                     of East Lyme; amending Special Act No. 77-68.
House Bill
No. 5918    5-29-1984        An Act concerning the transfer of Pine Grove Road to the Town of East Lyme.
Special Act
No. 84-31
Substitute
House Bill
No. 7535                     An Act concerning authorization of state grant commitments for school
Public Act                  construction projects.
No. 85-358
PA 87-512 -
SB 395
PA 87-520 - Effective 10-1-  An Act concerning establishment of a Niantic River Gateway Commission.
sSB 865     1987
            Effective 10-1-  An Act concerning the depositing of shellfish and shellfisheries in Branford
           1987             and increasing the penalty for a violation concerning the Waterford-East Lyme
                             Shellfish Commission and the taking of shellfish from the Niantic River.
PA 88-364                   An Act concerning the revisor’s technical corrections to the General Statutes
                             and to certain Public and Special Acts.
Special Act 6-6-1990         An Act concerning authorization of state grant commitments for school building
No. 90-23                    projects.
Special Act 6-6-1990         An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land in Hartford,
No. 90-37                    New Milford, Ansonia and East Lyme.
Special Act
No. 93-34                    An Act concerning the conveyance of state land in East Lyme, Meriden and South
Substitute  6-6-1990         Windsor, an easement to the state at Central Connecticut State University and
House Bill                   the transfer of property of the Department of Transportation.
No. 7207
PA 92-108 -
HB 5826     10-1-1992        An Act concerning composition of the Department of Correction.
Judiciary
Committee
September
2009                         An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land, the
Special                     boundaries of Fenwick, the validation of certain town actions, the City Point
Session                      Yacht Club and Wheeler Library.
Special Act
No. 13-23
           Effective 1-5-   Probate redistricting.
            2011
Special Act 7-10-2015        An Act concerning mutual consolidation of dispatch facilities in New London,
No. 15-22                    East Lyme and Waterford.
June
Special                      An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land and amending
Session,                    the Charters of the Borough of Fenwick and the Giants Neck Beach Association.
Special Act
No. 15-1
                            
 
TABLE II: ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE
OF STREETS AND ROADS
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date Passed Description
-    - -         Abandonment of a portion of Gurley Road (TM Volume 11, pages
                 193, 214).
-    3-7-1974    Abandonment of portions of Ancient Highway (TM Volume 11,
                 pages 362, 364).
-    11-18-1976  Abandonment of portions of South Ridge Road (TM Volume 12,
                 page 282).
-    9-23-1979   Discontinuance of Pine Grove Road (TM Volume 13, page 296).
-    1-24-1981   Discontinuance of a portion of Cubles Drive while reserving an
                 easement for drainage (TM Volume 14, page 78).
-    12-1-1985   Discontinuance of a portion of Luce Avenue (TM Volume 15, page
                 230).
                
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. Date Effective Description
                    Changing the name of Lake Avenue (Crescent Beach) to
-    1-1-1974       Terrace Avenue and Prospect Avenue (Niantic) to Haigh
                    Avenue (TM Volume 11, pages 276, 281).
-    1-1-1974       Changing the names of the following Roads as indicated (TM
                    Volume 11, pages 234, 236, 345):
 
Present Name New Name
Present Name                           New Name
Beachwood Road (Giants Neck Heights)   South Beechwood Road
Beechwood Road (Gorton Lake)           North Beechwood Road
Bride Brook Road (Boston Post Road to  North Bride Brook Road
Rt. 156)
Bride Brook Road (Giants Neck Beach)   South Bride Brook Road
Cobblers Court (Carriage Hill)         North Cobblers Court
Cobblers Court (Roxbury Park)          South Cobblers Court
Edgewood Road (Smith Cove)             North Edgewood Road
Edgewood Road (Giants Neck Heights)    South Edgewood Road
Ledge Rock Road (North Laurel Hill)    North Ledge Rock Road
Ledge Rock Road (South Laurel Hill)    South Ledge Rock Road
Lee Road (Giants Neck Heights)         North Lee Road
Lee Road (Giants Neck Beach)           South Lee Road
Main Street (Pine Grove)               North Main Street
Pattagansett Road (Giants Neck Beach)  West Pattagansett Road
Pattagansett Road (Niantic)            East Pattagansett Road
Pine Street (Saunders Point)           North Pine Street
Pine Street (Pine Grove)               South Pine Street
Society Road (NE of Dean Road)         East Society Road
Society Road (E of Ct. Tpke. and Bride West Society Road
Brk Road)
Washington Avenue (Niantic)            North Washington Ave (by correction)
Washington Avenue (Crescent Beach)     South Washington Avenue (by correction)
 
 
Ord. Date Effective Description
                    Changing the name of Upper Four Mile River Road extending
-    7-1-1975       northerly from Scott Road to Grassy Hill Road to
                    Whistletown Road (TM Volume 12, page 73).
                   
 
TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date Effective       Description
                          Providing for participation by the town in the
-    4-18-1960; 3-15-1977 Regional Planning Authority (TM Volume 8, page 88; TM
                          Volume 12, page 331 amended).
                          Creating a trust for the benefit of the town pursuant
-    Passed 4-26-1987     to Public Act 86-1, 6-23- 1986 Session II of the
                          Connecticut General Assembly (TM Volume 16, page 17).
-    10-20-1992           Creating a Regional Council of Governments (TM Volume
                          19, page 161).
                         
 
TABLE V: WATER
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
     Passed
            Extension of town water system; the major portion of the system will serve the
            developed area of the town south of the Connecticut Turnpike including Giant’s
            Neck, Black Point, Crescent Beach, Niantic Village, Pine Grove and Saunders
            Point and the fringe residential development along Route 156, Roxbury Road and
-    5-27-  Flanders Road. North of the Connecticut Turnpike the system will serve the
     1970   Flanders area, the fringe residential development along Beckwith Highway to a
            point approximately 1,200 feet north of Irvingdell Place and westerly on the
            Boston Post Road to the residential development surrounding the southern end
            of Pattagansett Lake including Upper Pattagansett Road to Filosi Road (TM
            Volume 10, page 252, 277).
     7-8-
-    1972;  Water assessments imposed upon property owners on Chesterfield Road (TM Volume
     1-3-   11, page 110, 133; TM Volume 12, page 295 amended).
     1977
-    9-23-  Water main extension ordinance no. 2; extending Road (TM Volume 11, page 269,
     1973   281)
-    9-23-  Water main extension ordinance no. 3; extending from a point on Chesterfield
     1973   Road (TM Volume 11, page 144, 149).
     1-3-   Water main extension ordinance no. 3; extending in a westerly direction along
-    1977   the Boston Post Road and extending in a southwesterly direction along Sunrise
            Trail (TM Volume 12, page 293).
-    6-26-  Water main extension ordinance no. 4; extending in a northwesterly direction
     1977   along South Drive (TM Volume 12, page 362).
-    9-26-  Water main extension ordinance no. 5; extending in a general southerly
     1977   direction along Lovers Lane (TM Volume 13, page 12).
-    3-22-  Water main extension ordinance no. 6; extending in a general westerly
     1979   direction along Burnap Road (TM Volume 13, page 200).
-    7-20-  Water main extension ordinance no. 7; extending from a point at the
     1979   intersection of Mostowy Road and Chesterfield Road (TM Volume 13, page 246).
-    3-1-   Water assessments in Black Point Beach Club Association area (TM Volume 14,
     1983   page 334).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 8; extending from the termini of the
     7-3-   existing water system at the intersection of West End Avenue and Billow Road
-    1985   and at the intersection of the Great Wight Way and West Lane to and including
            the area in and near the Black Point Beach Club Association and West Lane, and
            a portion of Terrace Avenue (TM Volume 15, page 188).
-    9-6-   Water main extension ordinance no. 9; extending in a westerly direction in and
     1986   along Hope Street (TM Volume 16, page 6).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 10; extending from the terminus of the
-    3-26-  existing water system at or near the intersection of Lover’s Lane and Marion
     1988   Drive running in a southerly direction a distance of 500 feet, more or less,
            to the intersection of Lover’s Lane and Jean Drive (TM Volume 16, page 197).
-    12-5-  Water main extension ordinance no. 11; extending in a general westerly
     1989   direction in and along Boston Post Road (TM Volume 17, page 86).
-    9-7-   Water main extension ordinance no. 12; extending in a general northerly
     1994   direction in and along North Bride Brook Road (TM Volume 20, page 194).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 13; extending in a general westerly
-    3-7-   direction in and along Barone Road for a distance of 390 feet, more or less,
     1996   from the intersection of Indian Rock Road and Barone Road (TM Volume 21, page
            -).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 14; extending in a general southerly
     3-7-   direction from the present terminus of the town’s water system at the
-    1996   intersection of Tanglewood Drive and Overbrook Road, in and along Frog Hollow
            Road, and Red Fox Road and portions of Overbrook Road and Green Valley Lakes
            Road. (TM Volume 21, page -).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 15; extending in a general westerly
-    11-4-  direction in and along the Boston Post Road from the present terminus of
     1999   Waterford’s water main at the Waterford town line for a distance of
            approximately 1,800 feet. (TM Volume 21, page 747).
     eff.   Water main extension ordinance no. 16; extending in a general easterly
-    1-19-  direction in and along Woodrow Drive from the present municipal water main
     2000   located in the North Bride Brook Road for a distance of approximately 425 feet
            (TM Volume 21, page 750).
            Water main extension ordinance no. 17; extending in a general northwesterly
     eff.   direction from the present terminus of the town’s water system at the
-    12-4-  intersection of Liberty Way and West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) in
     2000   and along West Main Street, Capital Drive and Colton Road. (TM Volume 22, page
            56).
           
 
TABLE VI: SEWERS
Editor’s note:
   The complete text of all sewer benefit resolutions are available for review
at the offices of the East Lyme Water and Sewer Commission, located at East
Lyme Town Hall.
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
     Passed
Res. - -    Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for Industrial Park Road extension.
Res. - -    Benefit assessment resolution; Clark’s Hollow Common Interest Community.
-    4-13-  Sewer assessments.
     1991
     8-27-
     1991;  Sanitary sewer benefit resolution;
Res. 3-24-  Phase I through Phase IV. For a complete listing, see TM Volume 18, Pages 229-
     1992   284.
     4-27-
     1993
Res. 2-27-  Sewers at Dodgetown Condominiums. (TM Volume 21, page 207.)
     1996
Res. 11-4-  Benefit assessment resolution; Chapman Woods Common Interest Community.
     1999
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 1; covering all
     11-28- properties on West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) between the intersection
Res. 2000   of Liberty Way and West Main Street and the westerly boundary line of property
            now or formerly owned by Leisure Sports, Inc., and all properties on Capitol
            Drive and Colton Road.
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 2; beginning at
     8-26-  the intersection of Corey Lane and West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) and
Res. 2003   runs in a general northerly direction in and along Corey Lane for a distance of
            330 feet, more or less, as more particularly shown on as-built plans and
            specifications on file with the Town Water and Sewer Commission.
Res. 4-30-  Sewer benefit resolution; Spinnaker Homes, LLC.
     2004
Res. 3-20-  Benefit assessment resolution; Spinnaker Common Interest Community.
     2006
Res. 7-10-  Supplemental benefit assessment resolution; Stonington Estates.
     2006
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 3; begins at the
            intersection of Smith Avenue and Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) and runs in
            a general northerly direction in and along Smith Avenue for a distance of
Res. 10-24- approximately 1,300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Smith Avenue and
     2006   Smith Street; thence running in a generally westerly direction in and along Smith
            Street to the Connecticut Military Department Campground, presently known as
            “Camp Rell”, as more particularly shown on as-built plans and specifications on
            file with the Commission.
Res. 4-23-  Benefit assessment resolution for Sea Spray Condominiums.
     2007
Res. 4-23-  Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on
     2007   8-27-1991.
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 4; bounded
            southerly by the State of Connecticut Military Reservation (presently known as
     10-24- “Camp Rell”), easterly by the Niantic River, northerly by Smith Cove and westerly
Res. 2008   by Smith Cove and includes the land, streets, roads and properties generally
            constituting the territorial limits of the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp- Meeting
            Association, Inc., as more particularly shown on as-built plans and
            specifications on file with the Commission.
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 5; running east to
            west along the Boston Post Road and from the present terminus of the existing
Res. 6-17-  sewer main at or near the Flanders Baptist Church and running westerly for a
     2009   distance of 8,700 feet, more or less to a point easterly of the intersection of
            Boston Post Road and Plum Hill Road, all as more particularly shown on as-built
            plans and specifications on file with the Commission.
Res. - -    Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on
     2016   8-27-1991, as amended 3-24-1992.
Res. - -    Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on
     2016   8-27-1991, as amended 3-24-1992.
Res. - -    Sanitary sewer benefit assessment extension no. 8; Village Crossing and Park
     2016   Place Opt-In Properties.
            Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 8; beginning at
Res. - -    the East Pattagansett/Flanders Interceptor north of Herster Drive and runs
     2016   generally westerly along the Park Place loop to the Village Crossing development
            located on park Place for a distance approximately 1,200 feet.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Connecticut General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CONNECTICUT GENERAL STATUTES
Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites Code Section
Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites Code Section
1-212                  30.20
7-131a                 31.01
7-147p—7-147y        154.05
7-147q                 154.01
7-147r                 154.02
7-148                  90.01
7-148b—7-148f        31.11
7-148c                 31.11
7-148(c)(7)(H)(ii)     110.01
7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv)     150.030
7-148(c)(10)(A)        10.99
7-148d(b)              31.11
7-148e                 31.11
7-148f                 31.11
7-148H                 150.036
7-148s                 30.20
7-148aa                150.037
                       150.035,
7-148gg                150.036,
                       150.037
7-149a                 97.03
7-152b                 72.02
                       150.030,
7-152c                 150.036,
                       153.03
7-152c(e)              150.036
7-152c(g)              150.036
7-170—7-186          114.01
7-194                  110.01
7-239                  52.21
7-257 et seq.          53.022
7-258                  53.002
7-276                  32.15
7-405                  Charter
                       7.3
8-1C                   153.02,
                       155.01
8-2                    150.002
8-8                    97.03
9-167a                 31.05
9-183a                 32.01
9-204b                 31.05
9-333b(b)(9)           35.17
9-333b(b)(11)          35.17
12-48                  34.080
12-53a                 34.004
12-62a                 TSO I
12-81                  34.035,
                       34.050
12-81(7)—(16)        34.021
12-81(19)              34.050
12-81(22)              34.050
12-81(58)              34.020
12-81c(3)              34.065
12-81w                 34.006
12-123                 Charter
                       7.3
12-129                 34.001
12-129n                34.080
12-170d(a)(3)          150.034
12-170aa(b)(2)         34.080
14-1                   90.02
14-80a                 90.07
14-145                 72.02
14-150                 72.02
14-150(b) and (c)      71.02
14-283                 90.02
14-379                 73.01
15-1                   152.03
15-3a(b)               152.20
15-8                   152.99
16-229                 97.03
16-234                 97.03
16-235                 97.03
19a-200 et seq.        53.001
20-330 et seq.         53.044
20-341a et seq.        53.044
21-80a                 31.11
22a-27i                153.02,
                       155.01
22a-27j                153.02,
                       155.01
22a-42 et seq.         153.01
22a-42g                153.03
22a-44                 153.03
22a-73(c)              90.01
22a-74a                90.05
22a-113k—22a-113s    152.01
22a-113k—22a-113t    152.03
22a-113m               152.21
22a-113m—22a-113o    152.21
22a-113p               152.03,
                       152.22
22a-113s               152.03
22a-354a et seq.       31.40
25-54i                 53.070
26-240 et seq.         152.04
26-287                 152.02,
                       152.20
Chapter 28             31.09
29-305                 150.016
29-406                 150.005
Chapter 45, §§ 853—150.003
47a-20                 31.11
47a-23c                31.11
47a-23c(c)(2)          31.11
50-9—50-13           35.01
51-164m                90.99
51-164n                90.99
51-164p(a)             90.99
52-180                 153.03
52-259                 153.03
Chapter 103            50.17
Chapter 103, § 7-255  53.102
Chapter 164, §§ 10-1931.10
148-o(b)               150.030
152c(f)                150.036
Chapter 246, 14-1      90.07
Chapter 299a           113.01
Chapter 444a           152.20
Chapter 492            152.20
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO VI
-        - -         34.005
-        9-26-1932   30.05
-        12-12-1938  111.01
-        10-6-1941   52.01
-        3-5-1945    52.02
-        3-3-1947    31.09
-        9-29-1947   150.004
-        6-7-1951    30.04
-        6-7-1951    150.003
-        8-27-1991   TSO VI
-        - -1992     TSO VI
-        3-24-1992   TSO VI
-        5-26-1992   53.100—
                     53.107
-        4-27-1993   TSO VI
-        6-21-1995   30.01
-        2-27-1996   TSO VI
-        11-4-1999   TSO VI
-        11-28-2000  TSO VI
-        8-26-2003   TSO VI
-        4-30-2004   TSO VI
-        3-20-2006   TSO VI
-        7-10-2006   TSO VI
-        10-24-2006  TSO VI
-        4-23-2007   TSO VI
-        4-23-2007   TSO VI
-        10-24-2008  TSO VI
-        6-17-2009   TSO VI
-        - -2016     TSO VI
-        - -2016     TSO VI
-        - -2016     TSO VI
-        - -2016     TSO VI
-        11-28-2016  TSO VI
                     10.01 -
-        4-17-2019   10.18,
                     10.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed     Code Section
-        - -             TSO V
-        - -             TSO II
-        - -             71.01—
                         71.03
-        - -             73.01,
                         73.99
                         90.01—
-        - -             90.09,
                         90.99
-        - -             114.01
                         150.030—
-        - -             150.040,
                         150.999
-        8-4-1947        130.01,
                         130.99
-        eff. 4-18-1960  TSO IV
-        11-14-1962      52.20
-        1-28-1965       97.01,
                         97.99
-        6-2-1966        96.01
-        6-20-1966       153.01
-        2-7-1968        50.02
-        7-2-1968        31.04
-        2-2-1970        33.01
-        5-2-1970        97.02,
                         97.99
-        5-27-1970       TSO V
-        2-5-1971        70.01,
                         70.99
-        eff. 6-19-1971  96.15,
                         96.99
-        eff. 4-15-1972  150.001
-        7-8-1972        TSO V
-        8-18-1972       TSO V
-        9-23-1973       TSO V
-        9-23-1973       TSO V
-        eff. 1-1-1974   TSO III
-        eff. 1-1-1974   TSO III
-        3-7-1974        TSO II
                         51.25—
-        11-7-1974       51.29,
                         51.99
-        2-6-1975        31.42
-        2-6-1975        52.20
-        4-24-1975       153.01
-        eff. 7-1-1975   TSO III
-        8-26-1975       93.01,
                         93.99
                         51.25—
-        9-21-1975       51.29,
                         51.99
-        9-21-1975       150.070,
                         150.999
-        4-6-1976        34.095—
                         34.099
                         113.01—
-        4-6-1976        113.03,
                         113.99
-        6-24-1976       72.99
-        8-3-1976        35.01
-        9-1-1976        30.03
-        11-18-1976      TSO II
-        1-3-1977        TSO V
-        1-3-1977        TSO V
-        1-3-1977        70.01,
                         70.99
-        eff. 3-15-1977  TSO IV
-        6-26-1977       TSO V
-        7-1-1977        31.04
-        7-23-1977       50.15—
                         50.19
-        9-26-1977       TSO V
-        12-5-1977       30.02
-        12-5-1977       34.021
-        3-28-1978       31.08
-        1-21-1979       50.15—
                         50.19
-        3-22-1979       TSO V
-        3-22-1979       52.04
-        3-22-1979       52.05
-        3-22-1979       52.06
-        6-23-1979       52.21
-        7-20-1979       TSO V
-        8-15-1979       31.06
-        9-23-1979       TSO II
-        12-11-1979      153.01
-        11-23-1980      52.04
-        11-23-1980      52.05
-        11-23-1980      52.06
-        1-24-1981       TSO II
-        1-24-1981       50.15—
                         50.19
                         95.20—
-        6-22-1981       95.31,
                         95.99
                         151.01—
                         151.04,
                         151.15,
                         151.30—
-        6-22-1981       151.35,
                         151.50—
                         151.53,
                         151.65—
                         151.68
-        8-11-1981       34.035
                         95.01—
-        8-11-1981       95.07,
                         95.99
-        9-3-1982        34.004
                         92.01—
-        9-23-1982       92.09,
                         92.99
-        3-1-1983        TSO V
-        8-4-1983        34.002
-        8-4-1983        34.003
                         112.01—
-        9-23-1983       112.07,
                         112.99
-        6-19-1984       151.31
-        4-30-1985       31.41
-        5-15-1985       31.07
-        7-3-1985        TSO V
-        12-1-1985       TSO II
-        5-25-1986       31.41
-        5-25-1986       31.42
                         110.01—
-        8-11-1986       110.04,
                         110.99
-        9-6-1986        TSO V
-        9-24-1986       72.01,
                         72.99
-        11-7-1986       34.020
-        11-8-1986       52.03,
                         52.99
-        4-26-1987       TSO IV
-        10-21-1987      31.02
-        3-26-1988       TSO V
-        4-16-1988       150.055,
                         150.999
-        6-4-1988        153.02,
                         155.01
-        7-25-1988       32.01
-        11-21-1988      51.56
-        12-19-1988      31.06
                         151.01—
                         151.04,
                         151.15,
                         151.30—
-        12-19-1988      151.35,
                         151.50—
                         151.53,
                         151.65—
                         151.68
-        3-30-1989       153.02,
                         155.01
-        12-5-1989       TSO V
-        11-26-1990      150.015
-        12-8-1990       51.40
                         53.001—
                         53.006,
                         53.020—
                         53.023,
                         53.035—
-        3-17-1991       53.049,
                         53.060—
                         53.070,
                         53.085—
                         53.089,
                         53.999
-        4-13-1991       TSO VI
-        4-21-1991       150.002
-        8-25-1992       53.100—
                         53.107
-        eff. 10-20-1992 TSO IV
                         152.01—
                         152.07,
-        5-4-1994        152.20—
                         152.22,
                         152.99
-        9-7-1994        TSO V
-        1-18-1995       33.15,
                         33.16
-        1-18-1995       153.02,
                         155.01
-        3-30-1995       150.015
-        eff. 8-1-1995   31.05
                         51.01—
                         51.05,
-        eff. 8-15-1995  51.07—
                         51.15,
                         51.99
-        eff. 10-5-1995  98.01,
                         98.99
                         51.01—
                         51.05,
-        2-22-1996       51.07—
                         51.15,
                         51.99
-        3-7-1996        TSO V
-        3-7-1996        TSO V
-        4-2-1997        31.04
                         51.01—
                         51.05,
-        eff. 10-15-1997 51.07—
                         51.15,
                         51.99
                         51.01—
                         51.05,
-        3-1-1998        51.07—
                         51.15,
                         51.99
                         53.001—
                         53.006,
                         53.020—
                         53.023,
                         53.035—
-        9-12-1998       53.049,
                         53.060—
                         53.070,
                         53.085—
                         53.089,
                         53.999
-        11-19-1998      93.01,
                         93.99
-        eff. 7-10-1999  94.01,
                         94.02
-        11-4-1999       TSO V
-        eff. 1-19-2000  TSO V
-        2-10-2000       31.26
-        2-10-2000       34.035
-        10-4-2000       31.03
-        eff. 12-4-2000  TSO V
-        1-22-2001       31.02
-        6-15-2001       150.015
-        11-9-2001       153.02,
                         155.01
-        11-27-2001      53.100—
                         53.107
                         91.01—
-        eff. 2-18-2003  91.08,
                         91.99
-        2-23-2003       153.02,
                         155.01
-        6-18-2003       52.03,
                         52.99
-        2-10-2004       153.02,
                         155.01
-        6-1-2004        52.06
-        6-29-2004       50.01
-        11-17-2004      153.02,
                         155.01
-        12-2-2004       31.41
-        12-2-2004       31.42
-        eff. 11-20-2005 31.40
-        eff. 11-20-2005 34.065
-        eff. 11-20-2005 34.080
-        12-21-2005      96.15,
                         96.99
-        eff. 10-1-2006  34.050
-        11-1-2006       53.120
-        5-16-2007       153.02,
                         155.01
-        8-2-2007        35.15—
                         35.18
-        5-15-2008       150.015
-        5-15-2008       153.01
-        5-27-2008       153.03
-        6-19-2008       34.035
-        6-19-2008       153.02,
                         155.01
-        7-1-2008        30.20
-        7-1-2008        31.01
-        8-2-2008        34.001
-        - -2009         53.120
-        5-30-2009       97.03
-        eff. 7-1-2011   97.03
-        eff. 7-1-2011   153.02,
                         155.01
                         112.01—
-        7-1-2011        112.07,
                         112.99
-        10-24-2012      53.120
-        eff. 2-19-2014  154.01—
                         154.05
-        10-29-2014      53.120
-        5-18-2015       150.015
-        eff. 1-30-2016  150.015
-        10-25-2016      53.120
-        eff. 11-15-2016 32.15—
                         32.21
-        4-20-2017       96.15,
                         96.99
-        6-21-2017       31.25
-        11-3-2017       53.120
-        2-21-2018       150.015
-        6-6-2018        150.005
-        6-8-2018        31.08
-        8-2-2018        72.02,
                         72.99
                         152.01 -
                         152.07,
-        9-4-2019        152.20 -
                         152.22,
                         152.99
-        1-6-2020        32.15 -
                         32.21
-        1-7-2020        52.03 -
                         52.06
-        - -             34.006
-        6-3-2020        51.01,
                         51.09
-        2-16-2022       31.55
                         151.01 -
                         151.04,
                         151.15,
                         151.30 -
-        5-31-2022       151.35,
                         151.50 -
                         151.53,
                         151.65 -
                         151.74
                         51.01 -
-        9-7-2022        51.17,
                         51.99
-        4-19-2023       150.015
-        4-19-2023       150.016
-        11-15-2023      31.10
-        2-21-2024       32.15 -
                         32.21
                         112.01 -
-        2-21-2024       112.07,
                         112.99
-        8-20-2024       31.11
-        10-2-2024       31.27
-        3-19-2025       30.20
-        3-19-2025       31.10
-        3-19-2025       150.015
-        4-16-2025       51.17
                        
 
