SALEM, CONNECTICUT
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 7-19-2017
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
On the following pages you will find the ordinances of Salem, Connecticut.
Please remember due to the adoption of the Town Charter, effective January 1,
2005, the Charter supersedes any ordinance or portion thereof which are
inconsistent with the Charter and those ordinances or portions thereof will
have no further force or effect after January 1, 2005.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Continuation of existing law; ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Salem shall be
designated as the Code of Salem, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF SELECTMEN. The governing body of the Town of Salem,
subject to the limitations of the Salem Charter.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      CONN. GEN. STAT. or GENERAL STATUTES. The revision of 1958 of the General
Statutes of the State of Connecticut and all amendments thereto.
      COUNTY. New London County, Connecticut.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in these cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, with right of survivorship, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or
joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street, usually lying on either side
thereof, between the curb and the adjacent property line, intended for the use
of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Connecticut.
      STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other public
thoroughfares in the town and means all that part thereof from the property
line of the premises abutting thereon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, mean any person who
occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN. The Town of Salem, Connecticut.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (F)   If any definition herein conflicts with a definition in the town’s
planning, zoning, inland wetlands, water and sewer or other regulations, the
definition in the regulation shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING LAW; ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are the same as
those of the ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code,
shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
   (B)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Selectmen shall desire to amend any existing chapter
or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Ord.
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-340) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-19
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code, or in any other ordinance, rule or regulation
promulgated by any officer or agency of the town under authority vested in him,
her or it by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or declared to be
unlawful, or the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty, including a referral to
community court, is provided therefor either by this code or state law, the
violation of any provision of this code, or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation of the town continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum statutory penalty for ordinance violations, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-148(c)(10)(A)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
30.01   Protect town employees
   
30.02   Appointment of constables
   
30.03   Election of First Selectman and Selectmen
   
30.04   Gifts to the town
   
30.05   Ethics procedure
§ 30.01 PROTECT TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   The town shall protect and save harmless any officer or employee thereof
from financial loss and expense, including legal fees and expenses, if any,
arising out of any claim, demand, suit or judgment by reason of alleged
negligence or other act resulting in accidental bodily injury to or death of
any person, or in accidental damage to or destruction of property, provided
such officer or employee, at the time of the accident resulting in such injury,
damage or destruction, was acting in the discharge of his or her duties within
the scope of his or her office or employment, or under the direction of any
such officer.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1957)
§ 30.02 APPOINTMENT OF CONSTABLES.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-185, in lieu of election, constables for
the town shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen which makes such
appointments.
(Ord. passed 7-24-1985)
§ 30.03 ELECTION OF FIRST SELECTMAN AND SELECTMEN.
   The following provisions shall apply to the November 1997 regular municipal
election and all subsequent regular municipal elections.
   (A)   At each regular municipal election, the town shall elect a First
Selectman, who shall be town agent, and two other Selectmen. The First
Selectman and two other Selectmen, so elected, shall constitute the Board of
Selectmen.
   (B)   No candidate may be a candidate for both the office of the First
Selectman and that of Selectman by virtue of nomination by a major or minor
party or a nominating petition or registration of a write-in candidacy, or any
combination thereof.
   (C)   Each elector may vote for one candidate for the office of First
Selectman and two candidates for the office of Selectman.
   (D)   Votes cast, including any valid write-in votes, for an unsuccessful
candidate for First Selectman shall not be counted as votes for that candidate
as a member of the Board.
   (E)   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-167a shall apply to the
election of Selectmen, provided that for the purpose of determining minority
representation, the total membership of the Board shall be deemed to include
the First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 5-8-1996)
§ 30.04 GIFTS TO THE TOWN.
   The Board of Selectmen may, by majority vote, accept gifts to the town or
any of its agencies, of money and/or personal property form any person or
entity in conformance with the donor’s directions as to the use of the gift(s),
and in amounts not to exceed $5,000 from any person or entity during any single
fiscal year, upon such terms and conditions as a majority of the Board of
Selectmen may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 30.05 ETHICS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person may file a written ethics concern. In the event that the
ethics concern relates to the conduct of the First Selectman, the Board of
Selectmen will designate an alternate (“designated alternate”).
   (B)   An ethics concern may be submitted in writing or communicated verbally
(if appropriate) to any of the following persons:
      (1)   The First Selectman or designated alternate;
      (2)   Any board chair, department head or supervisor who shall report the
concern to the First Selectman or designated alternate; and
      (3)   Any member of the Board of Selectmen or designated alternate if a
complaint or concern involves the First Selectman personally.
   (C)   All matters associated with an ethics concern shall be processed
confidentially unless specified by this procedure.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a complaint, the First Selectman or designated
alternate shall evaluate the issue raised and determine if the issue raised is
subject to the town ethics policy.
      (1)   If he or she determines that the issue raised in the complaint is
not subject to this policy, the First Selectman or designated alternate shall
notify the complainant and the Board of Selectmen in writing. A record of this
complaint will be maintained in the office of the First Selectman.
      (2)   If he or she determines that the issue raised in the complaint is
subject to this policy, the First Selectman or designated alternate shall:
         (a)   Notify the respondent (subject of the complaint) of the nature
of the issue and the right to submit evidence related to the issue;
         (b)   Notify the complainant and the Board of Selectmen in writing
that an investigation has been initiated; and
         (c)   Initiate an investigation relating to the issue raised by the
complainant.
            1.   Care must be exercised to maintain the confidentiality of the
investigation.
            2.   Investigative resources will be determined by the First
Selectman, designated alternate or the Board of Selectmen.
   (E)   At the next regular meeting of the Board of Selectmen, the First
Selectman shall advise the Board in executive session of the nature of the
alleged ethics concern and the status of any investigation.
   (F)   If, as a result of the investigation, the First Selectman or
designated alternate determines that there is not adequate evidence that an
ethics violation has occurred:
      (1)   All parties shall be so advised confidentially by certified mail of
the reasons therefor; and
      (2)   The Board of Selectmen shall be so advised in executive session at
its next regular meeting.
   (G)   If the First Selectman or designated alternate determines that
adequate evidence exists that an ethics violation has occurred, the Board of
Selectmen shall be so advised in executive session, stating the relevant facts
determined by the investigation. The parties concerned shall be permitted to be
present in order to provide input.
   (H)   The Board of Selectmen shall consider the facts presented and shall
determine whether additional action should be taken, which may include
submission to the State Ethics Board.
      (1)   A majority of votes of the full Board of Selectmen is necessary to
uphold the decision of the First Selectman or designated alternate.
      (2)   If the Board of Selectmen does not concur in the findings of the
First Selectman, the Board shall direct the First Selectman to so notify the
parties concerned, and the matter shall remain confidential.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2007)
CHAPTER 31: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Publication of proposed ordinance
   
31.02   Americans with Disabilities Policy Statement
   
31.03   Fire protection
   
31.04   Emergency responders awards
   
31.05   Reimbursement; emergency response for town civil preparedness forces
Purchasing Policy
   
31.20   Purpose
   
31.21   Purchasing objectives
   
31.22   Purchase orders
   
31.23   Verbal and written quotes
   
31.24   Awarding of contracts
   
31.25   Signing of purchase orders or contracts
   
31.26   Rejection of bids
   
31.27   Regional or state agency bids
   
31.28   Exemption from bids
   
31.29   Professional service contracts
   
31.30   Emergencies
   
31.31   Board of Education
   
31.32   Conflict with Charter or state law
   
31.33   Adoption/effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PUBLICATION OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
   The procedures specified in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-157(b) authorizing
publication of a summary rather than the full text of proposed municipal
ordinances is hereby approved and adopted for future proposed ordinances of the
town.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 31.02 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES POLICY STATEMENT.
   The town is committed to complying with all applicable provisions of the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
It is the town’s policy not to discriminate against any qualified employee or
applicant with regard to any terms or conditions of employment because of such
individual’s disability or perceived disability so long as the employee can
perform the essential functions of the job. Consistent with this policy of
nondiscrimination, the town will provide reasonable accommodations to a
qualified individual with a disability, as defined by the ADA, who has made the
town aware of his or her disability, provided that such accommodation does not
constitute an undue hardship to the town. Employees with a disability who
believe they need a reasonable accommodation to perform the essential functions
of their job should contact the First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2010)
§ 31.03 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-301, the Board of Selectmen of the town is
hereby authorized, in its discretion, to enter into an agreement or agreements
with the Town Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. and the Gardner Lake Fire Company,
Inc. for such services and protection as are commonly provided by fire
departments and/or fire companies. (Such agreement to include, but not be
limited to, financial assistance and use of the fire houses and equipment.)
(Ord. passed 10-14-1992)
§ 31.04 EMERGENCY RESPONDERS AWARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. As prescribed by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81w, this section
authorizes incentives to promote the recruiting and retention of volunteer
firefighters, emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and fire police in the town.
   (B)   Program year. The program year as defined in this section will be May
1 through April 30 of each year.
   (C)   Awards. 
      (1)   The town shall award up to 60 emergency responder awards to
volunteers serving in the two Fire Departments. The qualification criteria will
determine how many awards are earned and how the number of awards is divided
between the two Fire Departments.
      (2)   Awards will be initiated in July of the town fiscal year
immediately following each program year.
      (3)   Volunteer firefighters, EMTs and fire police who meet the
qualification criteria for an annual award shall receive the following.
         (a)   The volunteer members selected for an award will receive an
abatement of up to $1,000 on real estate taxes levied by the town in the next
fiscal year (commencing July 1).
         (b)   No abatement of taxes levied on motor vehicles or personal
property will be allowed for any award recipient.
         (c)   The $1,000 abatement of taxes owed on real estate can in no
instance exceed the amount of tax levied. Thus, for an individual, if only $900
is owed, that is the limit of the abatement. If two qualified recipients share
property and jointly owe real estate taxes, the amount abated will be $2,000,
or less if the tax due is less than $2,000. In no instance can any portion of
the abatement be used for prior or future years.
   (D)   Qualification guidelines and approval.
      (1)   Qualification criteria. Criteria for these awards are outlined in
the town firefighter/EMS/fire police incentive program, approved at the March
3, 2003 Board of Selectmen meeting; revised on April 28, 2006, and most
recently revised at the July 19, 2017 special town meeting to include the
following: “or any individual who is a retired volunteer firefighter, fire
police, emergency medical technician or emergency responder who has reached the
age of 59 and has completed at least 25 years of service as a volunteer
firefighter, fire police, emergency medical technician or emergency responder
in the town.” Oversight and administration of the qualification program is
provided by the Fire Chiefs of the Town Volunteer and Gardner Lake Volunteer
Fire Departments.
      (2)   Review of qualification criteria. The qualification criteria
proposed by the Fire Chiefs to determine award recipients in the next program
year will be shared with the Board of Selectmen at the regular March meeting of
said Board. Upon their review, the Board of Selectmen may require adjustments
to the qualification criteria. Records of the Fire Marshal and KX Dispatch
Center are available to verify sufficient participation to earn awards. The
final criteria will be agreed upon by the Fire Chiefs and the Board of
Selectmen at the regular May meeting of the Board of Selectmen.
      (3)   Recommendations to the Board of Selectmen. The Fire Chiefs will
recommend the names of those who qualify for an award at the end of the most
recently concluded program year (April 30) at the regular May meeting of the
Board of Selectmen. Names of members who qualify (during the previous program
year) for an award shall be submitted in writing. The Board of Selectmen shall
review the Fire Chief recommendations. Upon approval, the Board of Selectmen
shall direct the Tax Collector to apply the appropriate tax abatements for
members who qualified for abatements. Records of abatements shall be maintained
by the Treasurer and the Tax Collector.
(Ord. passed 7-19-2017)
§ 31.05 REIMBURSEMENT; EMERGENCY RESPONSE FOR TOWN CIVIL PREPAREDNESS FORCES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish guidelines and procedures
regarding reimbursement of town agencies and civil preparedness forces serving
during a declared state of emergency over two hours in length. The declaration
of emergency may be ordered by the President, the state’s Governor or the
town’s First Selectman. Town agencies will be reimbursed for labor costs and
material expenses. Civil Preparedness organizations will be reimbursed for
material expenses and compensation for time. (See division (E) below.)
   (B)   Civil preparedness forces are defined as any organized personnel
engaged in carrying out civil preparedness functions in accordance with the
provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 28-1(a) or any regulation or order thereunder.
All the police and fire forces of the state or any political subdivision of the
state or any part of any political subdivision, including all the auxiliaries
of these forces, shall be construed to be a part of the civil preparedness
forces. Ambulance personnel are included as well due to the fact that they are
organized personnel recognized in the town’s local emergency plan of
operations. Town agencies are defined as organized personnel paid by the town
to provide certain services; they include, but are not limited to, Police
Department, Department of Public Works and the like.
   (C)   It is accepted that routine emergencies for volunteer services, i.e.,
fire police, fire, ambulance, average two hours in length. Therefore, any
emergency, as described in division (A) above, over two hours is deemed to be
over and above the regular responsibilities of such forces and should therefore
be compensated for. This compensation is in consideration of the fact that for
events over two hours in length volunteer personnel must lose time from work;
such as, vacation, personal or unpaid time off.
   (D)   Civil preparedness organizations shall be compensated for documented
hours of service. Each chief of services will be responsible for providing an
accurate schedule of personnel and hours worked to the Emergency Management
Director within 24 hours after a declared state of emergency has ended.
   (E)   Civil preparedness organizations shall be compensated at a rate
applicable to the cost of obtaining similar services from a commercial service
rendering such services. The responsibility for obtaining this information lies
with each chief of services. This information will be submitted to the
Emergency Management Director as close to the end of the emergency as is
possible.
   (F)   Town agencies shall be reimbursed for labor costs for the emergency.
Costs for town personnel shall be submitted to the Emergency Management
Director within one week of the emergency. Each agency head will be responsible
for submitting this information.
   (G)   Each agency providing emergency services, both town agencies and civil
preparedness organizations, shall submit to the Emergency Management Director a
written schedule outlining materials used, lost or damaged during the
emergency. Along with this schedule, additional support should be submitted;
for example, purchase orders, paid invoices and the like.
   (H)   Reimbursement of these expenses is allowed, pursuant to Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 22a-451(a), which states (in summary) “any person, firm or corporation
which directly or indirectly causes pollution and contamination...shall be
liable for all coats and expenses incurred in containing, removing or
mitigating such pollution and contamination.”
   (I)   The Emergency Management Director shall submit in writing to the
person, firm or corporation who appears to be most liable in the emergency a
schedule of costs and expenses by department. This invoice shall be submitted
within three weeks of the emergency.
   (J)   In the event that reimbursement cannot be settled within 90 days of
the submission of a formal invoice, the town’s attorney will initiate
proceedings to collect 150% of the billing in addition to reasonable fees.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1992)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 31.20 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this policy is to provide a written guide and uniform standard
of purchasing practices for the town.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.21 PURCHASING OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   To procure materials, supplies, equipment, public improvements and
services at the lowest cost consistent with the quality and service rendered.
   (B)   To conduct purchasing without regard to political affiliation, race,
sex, age, religion, national origin or disability.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.22 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   All purchases over $500 shall be supported by a purchase order prior to
purchase, signed by the issuing department head and the First Selectman and/or
his or her designee. Oral approval may be given in urgent situations but shall
be followed by a written purchase order. Major purchases shall not be divided
into parts to circumvent the intent of this policy.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.23 VERBAL AND WRITTEN QUOTES.
   (A)   An appropriate fee may be charged for a copy of plans and
specifications, said fee or portion thereof to be refunded upon return of the
plans and specifications within the designated period.
   (B)   A bid bond equal to 5% of the bid and a 100% performance bond shall be
posted for all contracts in excess of $25,000, other than commodities, in a
manner acceptable to the First Selectman or her or his designee.
 
$1,000  Individual purchases in amounts from $1,000 to $2,500 shall have quotes
to      from at least two vendors. Written quotes are preferred. Fax and email
$2,500  copies are acceptable
$2,500  Individual purchases in amounts from $2,500 to $10,000 shall have
to      written quotes from at least three vendors. Fax and email copies are
$10,000 acceptable
        Individual purchases in the amounts from $10,000 to $25,000 shall have
        written quotes from at least three qualified vendors. Qualification of
$10,000 venders are determined solely by the First Selectman or his or her
to      designee. Qualifications may include but are not limited to prior
$25,000 experience, substitution of products or services, manufacturer
        preference, or any other qualification that the First Selectman or her
        or his designee deem pertinent
        Individual purchase or contracts expected to exceed $25,000 shall be
$25,000 advertised in a newspaper with regional circulation and at the State
and     Department of Administrative Services website, a minimum of 14 calendar
above   days before the bid or proposal is due. This is to be done by means of a
        formal “Invitation to Bid” or “Request for Proposal.”
CDAS website: https://biznet.ct.gov/AccountMaint/Default.aspx
 
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.24 AWARDING OF CONTRACTS.
   The First Selectman is authorized to award contracts up to $10,000. The
Board of Selectmen is authorized to award contracts over $10,000, subject to
limits set in the Town Charter.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.25 SIGNING OF PURCHASE ORDERS OR CONTRACTS.
   The First Selectman is authorized to sign all contracts approved under the
appropriate procedure stipulated herein. Under an existing contract, any change
order which increases the contract amount shall be subject to prior approval by
the First Selectman.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.26 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The person having the authority to award may reject any and all bids, part
of all bids, to make no award and to make awards in any manner that is most
beneficial to the town.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.27 REGIONAL OR STATE AGENCY BIDS.
   Individual purchases made through or on the basis of regional or state
agency bids shall be considered as having satisfied the requirements of this
policy.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.28 EXEMPTION FROM BIDS.
   An individual purchase may be made or contract awarded for a supply, service
or construction item without a competitive bid when it is determined that there
is only one source for the required supply, service or construction item. Such
determination shall be made after appropriate investigation by the First
Selectman.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.29 PROFESSIONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for professional services (legal, engineering, accounting and the
like) shall not be governed by these regulations, but every effort shall be
made to secure well-qualified professionals at the best terms possible for the
town.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.30 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergency, the First Selectman, or the Board of Selectmen, in the
best interest of the town, may waive the procedures outlined herein. Emergency
situations shall be those in which the operation of a department would be
seriously hampered; or in which life or property may be endangered, or in which
the health and welfare of the general public is threatened.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.31 BOARD OF EDUCATION.
   Separate purchasing policies are established by the Board of Education.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.32 CONFLICT WITH CHARTER OR STATE LAW.
   In the event of any conflict, the Charter of the town and/or the state
statutes shall supersede this policy.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
§ 31.33 ADOPTION/EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This policy is effective August 5, 2009 and may be revised or amended from
time to time by the Board of Selectmen as it deem necessary. This policy shall
remain in effect until amended.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Board for Admission of Electors
   
32.02   Participation in regional planning
   
32.03   Regional Council of Governments
   
32.04   Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission
   
32.05   Cemetery Association
   
32.06   Board of Finance
   
32.07   Civil Preparedness Agency
   
32.08   Recreation Commission
   
32.09   Inland Wetlands and Conservation Commission
   
32.10   Lake Authority for Gardner Lake
   
32.11   Economic Development Commission
   
32.12   Planning and Zoning Commission
§ 32.01 BOARD FOR ADMISSION OF ELECTORS.
   The Board of Admission of Electors shall be constituted of the Registrars of
Voters and the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1971)
§ 32.02 PARTICIPATION IN REGIONAL PLANNING.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 1 of Public Act 613 of the 1959
Session of the General Assembly, the town hereby adopts Public Act 613 of the
General Statutes and joins in the creation of the Regional Planning Agency for
the Southeastern Connecticut Planning Region as defined by the State
Development Commissioner under the provisions of Public Act 448 of the 1959
Session of the General Assembly.
   (B)   The town, having a population of 925 according to the Federal Census
of 1960, shall have two representatives on the Agency.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 2 of Public Act 613 of the 1959 Session of the
General Assembly, the Planning Commission of the town, duly constituted
pursuant to the provisions of the General Statutes, is hereby authorized to
appoint to the Regional Planning Agency one elector of the town for a term of
one year.
      (2)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for a term of two years.
Appointees under this section shall continue to serve after expiration of their
terms until their successors are appointed and take office.
      (3)   Appointees may be reappointed for successive terms. Terms of office
of initial appointees shall commence upon establishment of said Regional
Planning Agency. The Board of Selectmen and the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall appoint electors as representatives to the Regional Planning Agency
within eight days of the passage of this section.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointing body.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1961)
§ 32.03 REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 4-124i through 4-124p,
providing for the formation of the Southeastern Connecticut Regional Council of
Governments and does hereby join such Regional Council of Governments when and
as such Council is duly established in accordance with said statutes upon the
adoption of said statutes by not less than 60% of the eligible municipalities
within the Southeastern Connecticut Planning Region as defined by the Secretary
of the Office of Policy and Management or his or her designee, and upon
certification by the Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management or his or
her designee that a Regional Council of Governments has been duly established.
   (B)   When the Regional Council of Governments is duly established and the
transition period called for in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 4-124-1(b), as amended, has
been completed, the town does hereby rescind the ordinance of January 7, 1961
and any amendments thereto that created the town’s participation in the
Southeastern Connecticut Regional Planning Agency.
(Ord. passed 8-19-1992)
§ 32.04 ROUTE 11 GREENWAY AUTHORITY COMMISSION.
   The legislative body of the town hereby adopts the following section,
entitled “Establishment of a Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission.”
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of subsections (a), (b) and (c) of §
40 of Public Act 00-148, Substitute House Bill No. 5204, being Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 13a-142e, a Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission is hereby established, at
such time as all the Towns of East Lyme, Montville, Salem and Waterford shall
have adopted ordinances consistent with the provision of subsections (b) and
(c) of § 40 of said Public Act.
   (B)   The membership of said Commission shall consist of the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection, or said Commissioner’s designee, the Commissioner of
Transportation, or said Commissioner’s designee, a member and alternate member
from each of the Towns of East Lyme, Montville, Salem and Waterford, appointed
by the First Selectman of each of said towns, and a member and alternate member
of the Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments appointed by said
agency. Each member and alternate member shall serve for a term of two years
and until such member’s successor is appointed and has qualified. Such
appointment shall take effect when the last of the four towns has adopted an
enabling ordinance. An alternate member shall be empowered to vote on said
Commission in the absence of the member for whom such person is an alternate.
The initial terms of members shall commence when the last of the four towns
adopting an enabling ordinance has appointed a member and an alternate member.
Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the balance of the unexpired term. No appointed member
shall receive any compensation for service on said Commission.
      (1)   Said Commission shall elect from its members a chairperson and such
other officers as it deems necessary and shall establish its own rules of
procedure. The Commission shall be an autonomous body within the Department of
Transportation for administrative purposes only. The Commission may employ
experts and such other assistants as it judges necessary and may accept funds
from any source.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the state statutes, any
fluids appropriated to the Commission, or received by the Commission from any
other source, shall be held in custody of the Commission and expended by the
Commission for the purposes set forth in this section.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Environmental Protection and the Commissioner of
Transportation, not later than 60 days after the effective date of the enabling
ordinance adopted by the last of the four towns to adopt such an ordinance,
shall call a meeting of such Commission which shall, within 90 days thereafter:
      (1)   Hold public hearings for the purpose of developing standards for:
         (a)   Defining the initial boundaries of the Route 11 Greenway;
         (b)   Planning the design, construction, maintenance and management of
the Route 11 Greenway trail system and intermodal transportation access system;
         (c)   Identifying and prioritizing lands that shall be added to the
Route 11 Greenway;
         (d)   Recommending land use within the Route 11 Greenway; and
         (e)   Acquiring land and securing conservation easements for the Route
11 Greenway, except that nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit the
acquisition of land within the Route 11 Greenway by a municipality.
      (2)   Establish bylaws by which the Commission shall:
         (a)   Conduct its meetings, including a provision specifying that no
action by the Commission shall be effective except by the concurring vote of at
least four members;
         (b)   Protect and preserve the lands under its custody;
         (c)   Supervise staff;
         (d)   Maintain its records; and
         (e)   Report to the General Assembly, as required under division (D)
below.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section of the state
statutes, the Commission may:
      (1)   Acquire or convey by purchase, gift, lease, devise, exchange or
otherwise, any land or interest therein including, but not limited to,
conservation easements, located wholly or partly in the conservation zone,
provided such acquisition does not utilize funds furnished by the state;
      (2)   The state with or without consideration, provided any funds
received thereof shall not be deemed funds furnished by the state for purposes
of this section; and
      (3)   Contribute or transfer funds to, and enter into, agreements with
land trusts or other conservation organizations, to carry out the purposes of
this act. The Commission shall report to the General Assembly, on or before
February 15, annually, on its activities of the preceding year and on its
finances. The existence of the Commission shall terminate at such time as all
of its member towns have withdrawn or it is abolished by the General Assembly.
(Ord. passed 9-27-2000)
§ 32.05 CEMETERY ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   The operation of the town cemetery shall be governed by a Town
Cemetery Association, which shall be organized as a non-stock corporation in
accordance with the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 19a-296.
   (B)   Incorporation of the Town Cemetery Association shall be accomplished
by five electors of the town who shall be appointed within 60 days by the Board
of Selectmen, and who shall be known as incorporators of the Town Cemetery
Association, and who shall be charged with completing the task of incorporation
within one year of the adoption of this section.
   (C)   Incorporators shall manage the affairs of the cemetery before
incorporation, shall develop and adopt an initial set of bylaws containing, but
not limited to, provisions dealing with fees, maintenance, size and location of
access roads, size and location of cemetery plots, restrictions on lot
ownership, restrictions on grave marker design, and bylaw amendment, and shall
in all respects comply with the requirements of the state statutes regarding
the creation of non-stock corporations.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1980)
§ 32.06 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Selectmen shall, pursuant to the authority provided in
Public Act 75-440 (January Session, 1975), being Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-340a,
appoint three electors and taxpayers of the town as alternate members of the
Town Board of Finance, subject to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-167a
concerning minority representation of political parties.
   (B)   Such alternate members shall, when seated as herein provided, have all
the powers and duties set forth in the state statutes for such Board of Finance
and its members.
   (C)   (1)   The alternate members so appointed shall serve as follows:
         (a)   One alternate member to serve until the second Tuesday next
following the municipal election in November, 1977;
         (b)   One alternate member to serve until the second Tuesday next
following the municipal election in November, 1979; and
         (c)   One alternate member to serve until the second Tuesday next
following the municipal election in November, 1981.
      (2)   Biennially, upon the expiration of said terms of office, the Board
of Selectmen shall appoint an alternate member to serve for a six-year term to
begin on the second Tuesday next following the municipal election. Any vacancy
arising by death, disqualification or resignation of any alternate member of
the Board of Finance shall be filled by appointment by the Board of Selectmen
for the unexpired portion of the term of such alternate member. The Board of
Selectmen may remove an alternate member for cause.
   (D)   If a regular member of the Board of Finance is absent or is
disqualified, such absent or disqualified member shall designate an alternate
to so act. In the event that an absent or disqualified regular member shall
fail or refuse to designate an alternate to so act, the majority of the regular
members of the Board of Finance not absent and not disqualified may designate
an alternate to so act for each absent or disqualified regular member.
   (E)   No alternate member of the Board of Finance shall hold any salaried
town office. The alternate members of the Board of Finance shall be sworn to
the faithful performance of their duties. No alternate member shall receive
compensation for his or her services as such, but the necessary expenses of
such alternate when seated as a member of the Board of Finance, when approved,
shall be paid by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1976)
§ 32.07 CIVIL PREPAREDNESS AGENCY.
   (A)   The town, in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 28-7, hereby
establishes the Town Civil Preparedness Agency, consisting of a four-member
Advisory Council and a Director, appointed by the First Selectman, to serve for
two-year terms concurrent with the term of office of the First Selectman. With
reasonable conformance to applicable federal and state statutes, the Director
shall organize the Agency into such divisions as may be necessary for the
efficient conduct of the business of the Agency,
   (B)   The Agency shall be responsible for the development and maintenance of
plans and programs that may be needed in response to an emergency caused by an
enemy attack or any natural or human-made disaster, subject to the approval,
direction and control of the State Civil Preparedness Director.
   (C)   The Agency is empowered, subject to any budget appropriated, to obtain
equipment and supplies needed to fulfill its responsibilities.
   (D)   In an emergency situation, the First Selectman is in full charge of
all town personnel and equipment and the Director of Civil Preparedness shall
act as his or her advisor and Chief of Staff in directing the town’s emergency
response activities.
   (E)   The First Selectman may declare a State of Emergency for the town if,
in his or her opinion, such a declaration is necessary. He or she shall file
such declaration with the Town Clerk and it will be effective for up to 30 days
unless voided earlier by the First Selectman or action by the Board of
Selectmen.
   (F)   In a disaster situation, the First Selectman is empowered to apply to
the state, and also through the state, to federal agencies for any appropriate
disaster assistance that may be made available.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1980)
§ 32.08 RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Recreation Commission for the town,
pursuant to the authority contained in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148.
   (B)   The Recreation Commission shall consist of nine members to be
appointed by the Board of Selectmen as follows:
      (1)   One to serve until January 1, 1973; one to serve until January 1,
1974; one to serve until January 1, 1976; and one to serve until January 1,
1977; and
      (2)   Annually, upon the expiration of said terms of office, the Board of
Selectmen shall appoint members of said Commission for five-year terms. Any
vacancy arising in the membership of said Commission shall be filled by
appointment by the Board of Selectmen for the unexpired portion of said term.
The Board of Selectmen may remove any member for cause.
   (C)   No more than five of the members of said Commission shall be members
of the same political party.
   (D)   Annually, at the first meeting of said Commission after September 1, a
chairperson and secretary shall be elected by the members from among the
membership of the Commission.
   (E)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings. At all meetings of the
Commission, three members shall constitute a quorum. Special meetings may be
called by the Chairperson or upon written petition of a majority of the members
of the Commission.
   (F)   Said Commission shall keep records of its meetings, file copies of
minutes of all meetings with the Town Clerk within one week of the date of such
meeting, and submit an annual report of its activities to the town.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1990)
§ 32.09 INLAND WETLANDS AND CONSERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Inland Wetlands and Conservation
Commission for the town under the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-131a.
   (B)   Said Commission shall consist of seven members and three alternates to
be appointed by the Board of Selectmen as follows:
      (1)   Three to serve six-year terms until (date to be determined);
      (2)   Two to serve four-year terms until (date to be determined);
      (3)   Two to serve two-year terms until (date to be determined);
      (4)   One alternate to serve a four-year term until (date to be
determined);
      (5)   One alternate to serve a two-year term until (date to be
determined); and
      (6)   Annually, upon expiration of said terms of office, the Board of
Selectmen shall appoint members of said Commission for six-year terms. Any
vacancy arising in the membership of said Commission shall be filled by a
majority vote of the Board of Selectmen and a majority vote of the Inland
Wetlands and Conservation commission members present and voting at a meeting
called for that purpose. The Board of Selectmen may remove any member for
cause.
   (C)   No more than four of the members of said Commission shall be members
of the same political party.
   (D)   Annually, at the first meeting of said Commission after January 1, a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary shall be elected by the members
from among the membership of said Commission.
   (E)   At all meetings of the Commission, four members shall constitute a
quorum. The concurrence of a simple majority of those members present and
voting shall be necessary for the transaction of business.
   (F)   Said Commission shall keep records of its meetings and activities and
file copies of its minutes with the Town Clerk, all as required by the State
Freedom of Information Act, being Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 1-200, et seq., as
amended, and submit an annual report to the town.
   (G)   The present ordinance designating the Town Conservation Commission as
the Commission authorized to promulgate regulations to protect the inland
wetlands and watercourses of the town dated August 29, 1973, is hereby
repealed.
(Ord. passed 3-4-1992)
§ 32.10 LAKE AUTHORITY FOR GARDNER LAKE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-151a, the town, in
conjunction with the towns of Bozrah and Montville, hereby establishes a Lake
Authority for that body of state water within the territorial limits of the
towns of Bozrah, Montville and Salem known as Gardner Lake.
   (B)   At such time as enabling ordinances have been enacted by the
legislative bodies of the towns of Bozrah and Montville, the Board of Selectmen
of the town shall appoint three delegates, who shall be legal voters of the
town, to serve on said Gardner Lake Authority for terms of one year, two years,
respectively, or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The town shall pay a 60% share of the expenses of the Gardner Lake
Authority; provided, however, that the legislative bodies of the towns of
Bozrah and Montville shall agree to and adopt a policy for payment of the
remaining 40% of such expenses; and, provided further, that a budget for all
such expenses to be paid by the town shall be submitted to the First Selectman
annually for inclusion in the general government budget for prior approval by
the Board of Finance and authorized by a town meeting.
   (D)   The Gardner Lake Authority shall act as agent for the town in
cooperating with the State Boating Commission in the enforcement of the boating
laws on Gardner Lake; and, in addition, the said Gardner Lake Authority shall
have the power to:
      (1)   Control and abate algae and aquatic weeds in cooperation with the
State Water Resources Commission under Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-336 et seq.;
      (2)   Study water management, including, but not limited to, water depth
and circulation and make recommendations for actions to its member towns; and
      (3)   Act as agent for member towns with respect to filing applications
for grants and reimbursements with the State Bonding Commission, the Water
Resources Commission and other state agencies in connection with state and
federal programs.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1972; Ord. passed 6-24-1987)
§ 32.11 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The town hereby establishes an Economic Development
Commission:
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-136; and
      (2)   Intending to confer on the Economic Development Commission the
powers and duties as currently enumerated in said statute, and all other powers
and duties which may thereafter be conferred by the state statutes; and
      (2)   Intending to promote and develop the economic resources of the town
and make appropriations therefor in accordance of said state statutes, as
amended.
   (B)   Members.
      (1)   The Economic Development Commission shall consist of five members
and two alternates, all of whom shall be residents of voting age of the town,
who shall be appointed to the said Commission by the Board of Selectmen.
      (2)   Upon adoption of this section, there shall be appointed one member
to serve for a term of one year and until his or her successor shall be
appointed and shall have been qualified; one member to serve for a term of two
years and until his or her successor shall be appointed and shall have been
qualified; one member to serve for a term of three years and until his or her
successor shall be appointed and qualified; one member to serve for a term of
four years and until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified; and
one member and two alternates to serve for a term of five years and until their
successors shall be appointed and qualified. Thereafter, upon expiration of
each of the said original terms each member and alternate shall be appointed to
serve for a term of five years from the date of said expiration and until his
or her successor shall be appointed and qualified. Vacancies, however created,
shall be filled by the Board of Selectmen for the unexpired portion of the term
of the member creating the vacancy.
      (3)   The First Selectman, the Chairperson of the Board of Finance, the
Treasurer, and the Assessor shall serve as members ex-officio of the Economic
Development Commission, without voting rights, and their attendance will not be
a factor determining a quorum. A majority of the voting members of the Economic
Development Commission shall constitute a quorum. Alternates, as available,
shall be appointed by the Chairperson to substitute at any meeting for any
absent voting member. All appointments shall be made consistent with Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-136(a), with terms of office to run from the date of their
appointment or until their successors shall be appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Chairperson and officers. The Economic development Commission shall
annually elect from its voting membership a Chairperson and such other officers
as it shall from time-to-time determine may be necessary.
   (D)   Removal. Any member may be removed by the Board of Selectmen for
cause, and, on request of such matter, after public hearing.
   (E)   Appointing employees. The Economic Development Commission may appoint
and engage employees, agents and consultants as may be necessary for the
discharge of their duties, upon obtaining the approval of the Board of
Selectmen, within the limits of appropriations made therefor.
   (F)   Duties and responsibilities. The Economic Development Commission shall
conduct research into the economic conditions and trends in the town, make
recommendations to appropriate officials and agencies of said town regarding
action to improve its economic condition and development, shall seek to
coordinate the activities of and cooperate with unofficial bodies and
organizations to promote such economic development and may advertise and may
prepare, print and distribute books, charts and pamphlets which, in its
judgment, will further its official purposes.
   (G)   State and federal grants. The Economic Development Commission shall
have the authority to apply for and receive state and federal grants from state
and federal agencies and other sources on behalf of the town.
   (H)   Budget. The Economic Development Commission shall, during January of
each year, submit a budget, for the forthcoming fiscal year, for approval of
the Board of Finance, Board of Selectmen and town meeting.
   (I)   Meetings and reports. Meetings of the Economic Development Commission
shall be held at least six times annually and at such other times as the
Chairperson shall deem necessary. The Economic Development Commission shall
annually prepare and transmit to the town meeting a report of its activities
and of its recommendations for improving the economic conditions and
development of the town, and shall submit to the Board of Selectmen such other
reports as the Board of Selectmen may from time-to-time require.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1986)
§ 32.12 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The town hereby adopts the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat.
Chapter 126, being Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 8-18 to 8-30f, as amended.
      (2)   There is hereby created a Planning Commission, to consist of five
members, who shall be electors of the town holding no salaried town office
position. The First Selectman of the town and the member of the Board of
Selectmen having charge of Public Works shall also be members of the Commission
without voting privileges.
      (3)   The number of members of the Planning and Zoning Commission, their
qualifications, the method of their election and their terms of office shall be
the same as those established for the Planning Commission by Ordinance adopted
October 24, 1959, except that:
         (a)   Effective on March 1, 1977, the number of members of the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall be increased from five to seven members.
         (b)   At the adjourned or special town meeting convened by the Board
of Selectmen and to be held in the month of March 1977, and warned for such
purpose, the legislative body of the town shall choose the two additional
members who shall hold office until the second Tuesday next following the day
of the next town election held after March 1, 1977; and, at the next town
election held after March 1, 1977, there shall be elected successors to the two
additional members who shall be elected: one for a six-year term and one for a
two-year term.
         (c)   At each town election held thereafter, members of the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall be elected for six-year terms to fill vacancies
arising by expiration of terms; and
         (d)   No more than five of the appointed and elected members of the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall be members of the same political party.
      (4)   A special town meeting shall be called by the Selectmen within 30
days of the enactment of this section to elect five members to said Commission
to serve until their successors shall be elected as hereinbefore provided. The
Board of Selectmen shall present a slate of nominees to this meeting, but other
nominations may be made.
      (5)   No more than three of the appointed or elected members of the
Commission shall be members of the same political party.
      (6)   The said Commission shall have duties and powers provided by the
state statutes.
      (7)   Any vacancies in the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be filled
by the Commission for the unexpired portion of the term. Any vacancy in the
Zoning Board of Appeals before expiration of a term shall be filled for the
period until the next town election by the Board of Selectmen, and then by
election for the remainder of any unexpired term.
   (B)   (1)   The section establishing a Planning and Zoning Commission
adopted at town meeting on March 5, 1960 is hereby amended in accordance with
the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1b to provide for the appointment or
election of three alternate members of said Planning and Zoning Commission in
the manner and for the terms hereinafter set forth. Said alternate members
shall be electors of the town, shall not be members of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and shall not hold a salaried town office.
      (2)   At the next town election held after the adoption of this section,
three alternate members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be elected,
one to hold office for two years, one to hold office for four years, and one to
hold office for six years. At each town election held thereafter, alternate
members shall be elected for six-year terms to fill vacancies arising by
expiration of terms.
      (3)   Any vacancy in the office of an alternate member of the Planning
and Zoning Commission arising before expiration of a term shall be filled for
the period until the next town election by appointment by the Selectmen, and
then by election at said town election for the remainder of any unexpired term.
      (4)   No more than two of the alternate members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, whether appointed or elected, shall be members of the same
political party.
      (5)   The Board of selectmen are hereby authorized to appoint three
alternate members of the Planning and Zoning Commission to serve until their
successors shall be elected at the next town election after the adoption of
this section.
(Ord. passed 10-24-1959; Ord. passed 12-27-1972; Ord. passed 1-12-1977)
CHAPTER 33: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Tax exemptions; solar heating or cooling systems; solar energy
electricity-generating systems
Tax Relief for Certain Modified Handicap Accessible Vehicles
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Eligibility
   
33.17   Exemption
   
33.18   Definitions
   
33.19   Application
Tax Relief for the Elderly and Disabled
   
33.30   Enactment
   
33.31   General introduction
   
33.32   Eligibility
   
33.33   Application
   
33.34   Computation of benefits
   
33.35   Administration of program and amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 TAX EXEMPTIONS; SOLAR HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEMS; SOLAR ENERGY
ELECTRICITY-GENERATING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Tax exemptions are authorized for any building, the construction of
which commenced on or after October 1, 1977, which is equipped with a solar
energy heating or cooling system, or any building to which a solar energy
heating or cooling system is added on or after October 1, 1977, to the extent
of the amount by which the assessed valuation of such real property equipped
with such solar heating or cooling system exceeds the assessed valuation of
such real property equipped with the conventional portion of the heating or
cooling system, exclusive of any portion of such system to solar energy.
   (B)   Tax exemptions are authorized for any solar energy electricity
generating system installed for the generation of electricity for private
residential use, provided such installation occurs on or after October 1, 1977.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1998)
TAX RELIEF FOR CERTAIN MODIFIED HANDICAP ACCESSIBLE VEHICLES
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   Individuals who have permanent legal residence in the town pursuant to Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 12-85 as defined by the state’s Attorney General on the assessment
date (normally October 1 of each year), and who individually or jointly own a
motor vehicle for the use of a disabled person as described herein, may receive
a town tax exemption on the amount of taxes assessed on said motor vehicle
provided that the requirements of §§
33.16 through
33.19 are met.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2014)
§ 33.16 ELIGIBILITY.
   Any individual who is a resident with disabilities or parent or guardian of
a person with disabilities and owns a motor vehicle described herein shall be
eligible for exemption of the personal property taxes for one said motor
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2014)
§ 33.17 EXEMPTION.
   The town hereby ordains, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81c, that there
shall be exempt from personal property taxation:
   (A)   Any ambulance-type motor vehicle that is used exclusively for the
purpose of transporting any medically incapacitated individual, except any such
vehicle used to transport any such individual for profit;
   (B)   Any property owned by nonprofit ambulance company; and
   (C)   Any motor vehicle owned by a person with disabilities, or owned by the
parent or guardian of such person, which vehicle is equipped for purposes of
adapting it use to the disability of such person.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2014)
§ 33.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADAPTIVE CONTROL DEVICES. Includes, but shall not be limited to, any
mechanical or electrical devices added to a standard motor vehicle to enable an
individual with mobility restrictions to control the accelerator, foot brake,
turn signals, dimmer switch, steering wheel and/or parking brake.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has been altered, reconfigured or has
undergone mechanical or structural changes that permit a person with a
disability to safely drive such vehicle or ride as a passenger therein. MOTOR
VEHICLE shall include, but shall be limited to, vehicles equipped with hand
controls, hoists, lifts and other adaptive control devices.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2014)
§ 33.19 APPLICATION.
   Applications for benefits under this program shall:
   (A)   Be made on forms provided by the Assessor of the town;
   (B)   Be filed each year with the Assessor of the town at any time between
October 1 and November 1 to obtain a tax exemption for the next fiscal year;
and
   (C)   This program shall be effective 30 days from the date of its passage
and shall be applicable to the assessment year commencing with the grand list
of October 1, 2014 and thereafter until modified or repealed.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2014)
TAX RELIEF FOR THE ELDERLY AND DISABLED
§ 33.30 ENACTMENT.
   The town hereby enacts a tax credit for elderly and totally disabled
homeowners pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129n, as it may be amended from
time to time, for eligible residents of the town, on the terms and conditions
provided herein. This subchapter is enacted for the purpose of assisting
elderly and totally disabled homeowners with a portion of the costs of property
taxation.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
§ 33.31 GENERAL INTRODUCTION.
   Individuals and/or related couples who have permanent legal residence in the
town pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-85 as defined by the state’s Attorney
General on the assessment date (normally October 1), and who individually or
jointly own the home in which he ir she or they reside, may apply for town tax
relief on the amount of taxes assessed on his, her or their home and its
building lot if one or both met the eligibility requirements below and are
granted such relief by the Town Assessor after making timely application for
same.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
§ 33.32 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   An eligible homeowner (or couple) is one who is 65 years of age or
over at the close of the preceding calendar year, or whose spouse, residing
with said person, is 65 years of age or over at the close of the preceding
calendar year, or who is 60 years of age or over and the surviving spouse of a
taxpayer qualified in the town under this subchapter at the time of his or her
death; or an individual homeowner under 65 years of age and eligible in
accordance with applicable federal regulations to receive permanent total
disability benefits under Social Security, being Title II, being 42 U.S.C. §§
401 et seq., and Title XVIII, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1395 et seq., or has not been
engaged in employment covered by Social Security and accordingly has not
qualified for benefits thereunder, but has become qualified for permanent total
disability benefits under any federal, state or local government retirement or
disability plan, including the Railroad Retirement Act any government related
teacher’s retirement plan, in which requirements with respect to qualifications
for such permanent total disability benefits are comparable to such
requirements under Social Security.
   (B)   Who owns real property in the town or who is liable for the payment of
taxes thereon under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-48, and occupies that property as his
or her principal residence, shall be eligible for real property tax relief as
set forth in §
33.33, provided all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Such person has been a resident of the town for a period of one
year prior to the most recent October 1 assessment date, and occupies such
property as his or her principal residence. PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE shall be
defined as that real property occupied as his or her residence for more than
183 days of each calendar year; and
      (2)   Such person has applied for and is eligible for the elderly/
disabled tax relief program available from the state pursuant to Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 12-170aa, as it may be amended from time to time, provided that this
person is eligible for the state program in all respects except that his or her
income exceeds the income limits of the state program, but qualifies in
accordance with division (B) herein.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
§ 33.33 APPLICATION.
   Applications for benefits under this program shall:
   (A)   Be made on forms provided by the Assessor of the town and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the applicant’s most recent federal tax returns or
other documentation of all income for the preceding calendar year; and
   (B)   Be filed each year with the Assessor of the town at any time between
February 1 and May 15 to obtain a tax credit for the next fiscal year.
Applicants will be required to file each and every year with the Town Assessor.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
§ 33.34 COMPUTATION OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   The Assessor of the town shall determine whether each applying
taxpayer is entitled to a tax credit under this program and shall compute the
amount of tax credit to which each qualified taxpayer is entitled and advise
the Tax Collector in what amount to reduce the amount of tax levied against the
taxpayer.
   (B)   The method for computing the credit will follow either divisions (B)
(1) or (B)(2) below, depending on the taxpayer’s participation in the state
program:
      (1)   Circuit breaker participants: qualified taxpayers who also qualify
for tax credits from the state:
         (a)   The local credit shall be equal to 110% of credit granted by the
state, except that the local credit is subject to a minimum local credit of
$300; and
         (b)   However the total of all tax credits (state plus local credits)
shall never exceed 75% of the annual tax levy on the property. If the combined
credits exceed 75%, the local credit will be equal to 75% minus the state
credit.
      (2)   Local-only participants: qualified taxpayers who are eligible for
the state program in all respects except that their total, annual income
exceeds the state income limits by up to $10,000:
         (a)   The local credit per household, regardless of marital status,
shall be the lesser of: 110% of the state program’s credit percentage for
married couples in the highest income bracket, subject to a minimum local
credit of $300; or the maximum local credit will be $500 for local-only
participants; and
         (b)   The total tax credit shall never exceed 75% of the annual tax
levy on the property. If the local credit exceeds 75%, the Assessor will reduce
the local credit to equal 75% of the tax levy on the property. Note: the tax
credit available to an individual who qualifies under the town program only
shall be no more than 10% of the normal tax for a related couple (5% for an
individual homeowner), subject to a minimum credit of $50 and a maximum credit
of $250).
   (C)   If, during a tax year, a qualifying taxpayer dies leaving a spouse who
would also quality under this program, the surviving spouse shall be entitled
to receive the remaining benefits for that tax year.
   (D)   If any person entitled to a tax credit pursuant to this program sells
the property on which the tax credit is granted, no additional tax credit shall
be allowed for his or her interest in the property for any fiscal years
commencing after the date of such sale of the property, and, provided further
that the purchaser of the property shall pay the town a prorated share of the
tax credit the same as provided to the state by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-170aa(b)
(1).
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
§ 33.35 ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Assessor of the town shall determine whether each applying
taxpayer is entitled to a tax credit under this program and shall compute the
amount of tax credit to which each qualified taxpayer is entitled and advise
the Tax Collector in what amount to reduce the amount of tax levied against the
taxpayer.
   (B)   The town hereby waives any lien rights given to it by Conn. Gen. Stat
§ 12-129n.
   (C)   Persons aggrieved by any act or determination of the Assessor under
this program may appeal to the Town Board of Assessment Appeals.
   (D)   The Board of Selectmen, with the approval of the Board of Finance, is
hereby authorized to amend this plan from time to time as allowed by applicable
regulations. However, the Board of Selectmen may not reduce or eliminate
benefits as herein provided, and the Board of Selectmen shall publish any
changes in the same manner as prescribed by law for the publication of
ordinances and that such changes shall become effective 30 days after said
publication.
   (E)   This program shall be effective with the grand list of October 1, 2001
and thereafter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   LANDFILL USE
      
51.   GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND OTHER REFUSE AND RECYCLABLES
CHAPTER 50: LANDFILL USE
Section
   
50.01   General provisions
   
50.02   Permit categories
   
50.03   Permit duration
   
50.04   Permit applications
   
50.05   Enforcement
   
50.06   Fee schedules and additional regulations
§ 50.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   On and after June 1, 1983, access to the town’s municipal landfill for the
purpose of refuse disposal shall be limited to vehicles, which display the
proper landfill use permit. For purposes of this chapter, the term REFUSE shall
include all those categories of items generated within the town, which may
properly be accepted for disposal by the landfill custodian(s). No refuse
generated outside the town will be accepted or permitted for disposal in the
town landfill. (No hazardous material, as defined by the DEEP will be
accepted.)
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 50.02 PERMIT CATEGORIES.
   (A)   Private use. The owner of any vehicle included on the tax list of the
town will be provided a private use permit. A private use permit will permit
the vehicle owner to dispose of refuse generated by non-commercial activities
within the town.
   (B)   Commercial use. The owner of any vehicle included on the tax list of
the town may purchase a commercial use permit. A commercial use permit shall
enable the vehicle owner to dispose of refuse generated, by commercial
activities within the town, including, but not limited to, the activities of
paid refuse haulers and those engaged in the building and construction trades.
   (C)   Temporary use. The owner of any real property within the town will be
provided a temporary use permit. A temporary use permit will enable the owner
of any one vehicle, which is not included on the tax list of the town, to
dispose of refuse generated on the property of the permit applicant.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 50.03 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   A private use permit will be valid for one year from July 1 through
June 30.
   (B)   A commercial use permit will be valid for one year from July 1 through
June 30.
   (C)   A temporary use permit will be valid for such time as may be
determined by the issuing authority.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 50.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all permits shall be made to the Selectmen’s office on
forms approve by the Board of Selectmen. These forms shall contain sufficient
information to enable the Selectmen’s office to determine the applicant’s
eligibility for the permit requested.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 50.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   On or after February 1, 1993, any vehicle which does not display a
proper landfill use permit will be denied access to the municipal landfill.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any
regulations adopted hereunder shall:
      (1)   Pay a fine of $250 for each violations; and
      (2)   Pay and hold the town harmless from any actual damages, including
fines, suffered by the town as a result of such violation(s).
   (C)   Officials and employees of the town shall refuse to permit any vehicle
to deposit refuse in a disposal area maintained by the town if said vehicle
contains, in whole or in part, refuse not authorized to be disposed of in such
area under the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly disposes of refuse containing items
designated as recyclables shall be required to remove the load deposited and
separate recyclables according to the state statutes in effect. The person will
be suspended from the solid waste facility and his or her permit revoked until
the deposited load is separated or removed.
   (E)   The First Selectman or designated representative, prior to allowing
disposal, may inspect or cause to be inspected any vehicle(s) and/or containers
of refuse to verify the source and class of each load of refuse brought to the
town solid waste disposal area.
   (F)   If any permittee, its agent or employee, fails or refuses, upon
request of the First Selectman or his or her designated representative, to
allow the inspection specified in division (E) above, as to any load or
container of refuse, the permittee, its agent or employee shall not be
permitted to dispose of the refuse on the vehicle in the disposal area and
shall be ordered to remove the vehicle from the area immediately.
   (G)   All permittees shall obey all the orders and directions of agents of
the town employed or in charge of town-maintained disposal area and shall
comply with all regulations issued by the Board of Selectmen on the collection
of refuse and disposal thereof in the town disposal areas.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Regulations regarding recycling, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-241b
§ 50.06 FEE SCHEDULES AND ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Selectmen may establish fee schedules and regulations
governing packaging, separation and disposal of the various categories of
refuse accepted in the disposal areas maintained by the town.
   (B)   The Board of Selectmen may make additional regulations consistent with
this chapter and all applicable laws to promote the orderly collection of
refuse and recyclables and disposal thereof in the disposal areas maintained by
the town and for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Each fee schedule and regulation shall become effective upon approval
by the Board of Selectmen and the filing of copies with the Town Clerk and at
the landfill.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND OTHER REFUSE AND RECYCLABLES
Section
   
51.01   Material classified as recyclable
   
51.02   Separation and disposal of items
   
51.03   Set out for collection
   
51.04   Potential hazard
   
51.05   Inspection
   
51.06   Right of refusal
   
51.07   Days and times determined by Board
   
51.08   Agreements with private contractors
   
51.09   Fines; disputes; appeal
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 MATERIAL CLASSIFIED AS RECYCLABLE.
   The following material shall be classified as recyclable, and will be
accepted at the town landfill only if deposited in trailer hoppers or other
containers provided for the purpose of collecting recyclables:
   (A)   Unbroken glass containers and all types of metal cans;
   (B)   Newspapers and magazines;
   (C)   Corrugated cardboard;
   (D)   White office paper (excluding envelopes with plastic windows);
   (E)   Scrap metal;
   (F)   Lead acid storage batteries;
   (G)   Waste oil;
   (H)   Leaves;
   (I)   Plastic food and beverage containers; and
   (J)   Such items as shall be added to the list of recyclable materials
contained in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 446d, being §§ 22a-207 to 22a-256ee, and
the regulations of the State Department of Environmental Protection or as shall
be added by the Board of Selectmen.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.02 SEPARATION AND DISPOSAL OF ITEMS.
   Contractors, firms and individuals will be required to separate their
recyclables in accordance with the categories specified in §
51.01 and shall be required to dispose of their separated recyclables in
buildings, areas or containers designated by the Selectmen or their agent(s)
before proceeding to the landfill proper and before disposing of any other
material at the landfill.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.03 SET OUT FOR COLLECTION.
   All garbage, rubbish, recyclables and other refuse shall be set out for
collection in an orderly and sanitary condition so as not to constitute a
nuisance or otherwise be objectionable.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.04 POTENTIAL HAZARD.
   No person having custody or control of any premises within the town shall
permit or cause any garbage, rubbish, recyclables or other refuse within his or
her control to become a hazard or potential hazard or nuisance of any sort.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INSPECTION.
   Each vehicle entering the landfill will be subject to inspection by the
landfill attendant prior to disposal of any garbage, rubbish, recyclables or
other refuse and all such disposal shall take place as directed by the
attendant.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.06 RIGHT OF REFUSAL.
   In addition to the penalties herein provided, the town or its agent(s)
reserves the right to refuse to allow disposal in the town landfill where the
spirit or letter of this chapter is ignored.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.07 DAYS AND TIMES DETERMINED BY BOARD.
   The landfill will be open to receive garbage, rubbish, recyclables and other
refuse on such days and at such times as shall be determined by the Board of
Selectmen and posted at the landfill by the Selectmen or their agent(s).
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.08 AGREEMENTS WITH PRIVATE CONTRACTORS.
   The Selectmen shall be and are hereby authorized to enter into such
agreements with private contractors as are necessary to provide for the manner
in which recyclables shall be assembled at the landfill site and collected and
removed from the landfill site.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.09 FINES; DISPUTES; APPEAL.
   The Selectmen shall have full discretionary authority to assess fines
pursuant to this chapter and to decide all disputes over the applicability of
this chapter. Any appeal of a decision by the landfill attendant shall be filed
in writing with the office of the First Selectman no later than ten days after
the date of the dispute.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Commercial haulers are subject to civil penalties of $1,000 for a
first violation and $5,000 for each subsequent violation for knowingly mixing
recyclables with solid waste.
   (B)   Commercial establishments are subject to a penalty of $500 for each
such violation.
   (C)   Any other person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a written warning for the first offense and a fine in an amount not
to exceed $50 for each subsequent violation.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1984)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   FIRE LANES
      
71.   SNOW AND ICE ON TOWN ROADS
      
72.   PARKING ON TOWN ROADS DURING WINTER STORMS
CHAPTER 70: FIRE LANES
Section
   
70.01   Fire Marshal; authority to designate fire lanes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 FIRE MARSHAL; AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal of the town shall have the authority to designate
fire lanes, in accordance with the provisions of the State Fire Safety Code,
that the owner(s) of property benefitted by the establishment of fire lanes
shall be required to mark the lanes in a manner acceptable to the Fire Marshal,
and that parking shall be prohibited within designated fire lanes.
   (B)   In addition, any vehicle parked in designated fire lanes, in violation
of this section, may be towed away by the town at the vehicle owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any vehicles are parked in designated fire lanes, the owners of said
vehicles shall forfeit and pay for the use of the town a fine of $25 to be
recovered by an action on this chapter brought in the name of the Treasurer of
the town.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1980)
CHAPTER 71: SNOW AND ICE ON TOWN ROADS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibition of depositing snow or ice
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PROHIBITION OF DEPOSITING SNOW OR ICE.
   No owner of real property within the town shall deposit, or cause or allow
to be deposited, any snow or ice upon any town property or right-of-way in such
a manner as to interfere with proper operation of any storm drainage system, or
upon the traveled portion of any town road. For purposes of this section,
TRAVELED PORTION shall mean that area of any town road from which ice and snow
have been plowed by the town, its employees or agents.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any portion of §
71.01 shall pay a fine of $100 for each violation and shall pay and hold the
town harmless for any actual damages suffered by the town as a result of such
violations.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING ON TOWN ROADS DURING WINTER STORMS
Section
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Declaration of snow emergency
   
72.04   Parking restricted
   
72.05   Vehicle owner
   
72.06   Towing of vehicles; towing and storage charges
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be in the best interest of the public safety,
convenience and welfare of the town to regulate and restrict the parking of
vehicles on town roads during a period of snow emergency, so as not to impede
the transportation and movement of food, fuel, medical care, fire, health,
police protection and other vital facilities of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. As defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1(58) and
(106), as amended.
   OPERATOR. Refers to the operator, if known, of any motor vehicle found to be
in violation of this chapter. If the OPERATOR is not known, it shall be prima
facie evidence that the registered owner is the operator, as in accordance with
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-107.
   PARK or PARKING. Defined in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-297(4) and
shall mean to permit a motor vehicle to remain stationary upon the public
highway, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers or loading
or unloading merchandise or goods, or in obedience to traffic regulations or
traffic signs or signals.
   PARKED VEHICLE. As defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1(70), as amended.
   ROAD. Any approved public road, or street of the Town of Salem.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A period of time as forecasted by a weather service or the
United States Weather Bureau, during which period vehicular and/or pedestrian
traffic is expected to be hazardous or congested due to the elements, and
during which period the parking of vehicles could hinder, delay or obstruct the
safe flow of such traffic and/or the proper cleaning, clearing and making safe
of the public roads of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011)
§ 72.03 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A snow emergency shall be declared by the First Selectman or his or
her designee, either before, during or after a fall of snow, sleet or freezing
rain, when, in his or her judgment, the circumstances warrant determination of
such an emergency in the interest of safety upon the public roads of the town.
   (B)   The First Selectman or his or her designee shall cause public
announcement of such determination of snow emergency prior to the time of
becoming effective, after which time a snow emergency shall be in effect. The
First Selectman or his or her designee shall determine when such emergency no
longer exists and shall make public announcement of the same.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011)
§ 72.04 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful at any time during the period of any declared
snow emergency under provisions of this chapter for the operator of a vehicle
to allow, permit or suffer said vehicle to remain parked on any road in the
town.
   (B)   If the operator is not known, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the registered owner is the operator as in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §
14-107.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 VEHICLE OWNER.
   In any prosecution or proceeding hereunder, the last registered owner,
either by registration plate or vehicle identification number, shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the owner of such vehicle left said vehicle at the
place where such violation occurred.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011)
§ 72.06 TOWING OF VEHICLES; TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be found parked on any town road
during a declared snow emergency, such vehicle may be removed under the
direction of the Director of Public Works by means of towing the same.
   (B)   Such removal shall be at the risk of the owner, and before the owner
or person in charge of such vehicle shall be permitted to remove the same from
the custody of the Director of Public Works, he or she shall furnish evidence
of his or her identity and ownership or right to possession and shall sign a
receipt for said vehicle; and he or she shall pay a reasonable towing charge
and a reasonable storage charge. The town is not responsible for any damage
during the removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2011)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   LIBRARY
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION; LAKES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Handling of cats
   
90.02   Canine control
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 HANDLING OF CATS.
   (A)   The Town Animal Control Officer may take into custody any cat found to
be causing a nuisance, an unsanitary, and/or a dangerous situation unless such
cat can be identified as under the care of its owner.
   (B)   If a cat is determined to be injured, diseased or potentially
dangerous and the owner is unknown, the Town Animal Control Officer may, under
the opinion of a veterinarian, have the animal painlessly put to death by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   If the owner of a cat taken into custody by the Animal Control Officer
is known, the owner will be notified as soon as possible. The Animal Control
Officer will determine, based on the danger or safety concerns of the
situation, whether the cat must be quarantined or in need of evaluation by a
veterinarian. The cost of such quarantine or evaluation to be borne by the
owner.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 90.02 CANINE CONTROL.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any dog shall be required to keep such dog on a
leash or lead while within the confines of public streets, sidewalks, highways,
parks and other public places and grounds within the town.
   (B)   Dogs found roaming at large, in violation of the provisions of this
section, shall be subject to the provision of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-332
relating to impounding and disposition.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition, any owner or keeper who allows his or her dog to roam at
large in violation of the provisions of §
90.02, shall forfeit and pay the town a fine of $25 to be recovered by an
action on §
90.02 brought in the name of the Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
CHAPTER 91: LIBRARY
Section
   
91.01   Management of free public library
§ 91.01 MANAGEMENT OF FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes a free public library to be located within
the town, to be known as the “Salem Free Public Library.”
   (B)   The management of said free public library shall be vested in a Board
of Directors consisting of six members who shall be electors of the town.
   (C)   At the next town election held after the adoption of this section,
there shall be elected to said Board of Directors six members; two of whom
shall hold office for two years, two for four years, and two for six years. At
each town election held thereafter, members shall be elected for six-year terms
to fill vacancies arising by expiration of terms. Vacancies arising before
expiration of terms shall be tilled until the next town election by the
Selectmen. At said next town election, the electors shall vote on filling the
unexpired terms.
   (D)   Within 30 days after the adoption of this section, the Board of
Selectmen shall appoint six members to said Board of Directors to serve until
their successors shall be elected as hereinbefore provided.
   (E)   No more than three of the appointed or elected members of the Board of
Directors shall be members of the same political party.
   (F)   Said Board of Directors shall have and exercise all the powers
conferred upon similar boards of directors of public libraries under the
provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 190, being §§ 11-20 to 11-37, as
presently in force and such amendments thereto as may subsequently be made,
subject to all and the singular limitations therein contained. Said Board of
Directors may make bylaws for its government consistent with the powers
conferred upon it, and shall have the exclusive right to expend all money
appropriated by the town for said library.
   (G)   All of the personal property, and the building, and so much of the
land reasonably required, in the judgment of the Board of Selectmen, for use in
connection with such library, as may be given to the Salem Library,
Incorporated, a private corporation, shall be used and devoted to the purpose
of tree public library herein established.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1962)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Removal of abandoned motor vehicles
   
92.02   Throwing waste material or paper on highways and the like
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Pursuant to authority provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-150a, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer of the town may arrange for removal and disposition of
abandoned, inoperable or unregistered motor vehicles located within the town,
which are either unmoved or in violation of the applicable provisions of the
town zoning regulations for 30 days after:
   (A)   Notice to the owner of the property on which such motor vehicle so
remains requesting that such motor vehicle be removed or brought into
compliance with the town zoning regulations; and
   (B)   Notice in a newspaper having a substantial circulation in the town.
(Ord. passed 3-12-1980)
§ 92.02 THROWING WASTE MATERIAL OR PAPER ON HIGHWAYS AND THE LIKE.
   The throwing or placing of waste material or paper in the highways of the
town or in the areas adjacent thereto is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 8-16-1948) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each violation of §
92.02 shall be punishable by a fine or penalty not exceeding $10.
(Ord. passed 8-16-1948)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION; LAKES
Section
   
93.01   Horsepower of boats on Gardner’s Lake
   
93.02   Motorboats on Mitchell Pond and Horse Pond
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 HORSEPOWER OF BOATS ON GARDNER’S LAKE.
   Any person who operates a boat having a motor or engine of more than seven
horsepower on Gardner’s Lake in the Towns of Salem, Montville and Bozrah shall
be fined not more than $50.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1949)
§ 93.02 MOTORBOATS ON MITCHELL POND AND HORSE POND.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORBOAT. Any vessel fitted with or propelled by machinery, whether or
not such machinery is the principal source of propulsion.
      OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise use a vessel.
      VESSEL. Every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as
a means of transportation on water.
   (B)   Operation of motorboats prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorboat on Mitchell Pond in the town.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorboat on Horse Pond in the town.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to vessels and motorboats
owned by the Department of Environmental Protection or be enforceable against
any employee of said Department while he is engaged in the enforcement of laws
and regulations and the performance of other official duties.
   (D)   Approval and effective date of section. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §
15-136, upon adoption of this section, it shall be submitted to the
Commissioner of Environmental Protection and, if not disapproved by him or her
within 60 days thereafter, shall take effect on April 1, 1974.
(Ord. passed 8-29-1973) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
93.02(B) shall be fined not more than $25.
(Ord. passed 8-29-1973)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   General provisions
   
94.03   Procedure
   
94.04   Road design and construction standards
   
94.05   Drainage design and construction standards
   
94.06   Other improvements
   
94.07   Existing town road alterations
   
94.08   Submission requirements
   
94.09   Validity
   
Appendix A:   Forms and Permits
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
shall apply to the Board of Selectmen for a road construction permit.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A major thoroughfare whose main function is to carry large
volumes of traffic between major points.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose primary function is to carry moderate
traffic volumes between local streets and arterial streets. It may also provide
access to abutting properties.
   FORM 814. A certain document titled: “Department of Transportation: Standard
Specifications for Roads, Bridges and Incidental Construction, Form 814”, as
may be amended from time-to-time.
   ROAD. Includes streets, highways, avenues and lanes laid out and intended as
a vehicular accessway.
   THIS ORDINANCE, THIS CHAPTER or ROAD ORDINANCE. “An Ordinance Concerning the
Construction and Acceptance of Roads in the Town of Salem, Connecticut.” This
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 94.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General. No road or other improvements appurtenant thereto shall be
constructed in the town until a road construction permit has been issued by the
Board of Selectmen. Said permit is required for the construction of:
      (1)   New roads to be accepted by the town;
      (2)   The completion of roads in a subdivision approved by the Town
Planning and Zoning Commission prior to and after the effective date of this
chapter; and
      (3)   The construction or modification of pavement, drainage or other
improvements within or in support of any existing town road or highway.
   (B)   Standards. In addition to the design and construction standards
hereinafter specified, the following shall also be applicable.
      (1)   Approved subdivision. The design and construction standards
applicable to streets in subdivisions approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be the standards
applicable at the time of such approval, provided that such approval is still
in effect.
      (2)   Other streets. In the case of construction within or in support of
an existing town road or highway, or the construction of streets shown on a
subdivision map filed in the office of the Town Clerk prior to adoption of the
town subdivision regulations, the Board of Selectmen may approve other or
lesser design and construction standards as deemed appropriate by the Board of
Selectmen to be consistent with other improved portions of such streets.
      (3)   Alternate standards. The Board of Selectmen may approve alternate
design and construction standards when:
         (a)   Such standards are prepared by a licensed professional engineer;
and
         (b)   The Board of Selectmen determines that such standards will be in
accord with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Inspection. All work subject to a road construction permit shall be
subject to inspection and approval by the Board of Selectmen, or its authorized
agent, at the expense of the applicant. Said Board, or its authorized agent,
shall have free access to the work at all times and shall be deemed authorized
to take material samples, cores and other tests as deemed necessary to
determine compliance with these standards. The Board of Selectmen may require
the applicant, at his or her expense, to have such tests made and certified by
a professional engineer licensed by the state or other parties of its
determination.
   (D)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter that the policies, rules,
procedures, standards and specifications established herein are coordinated
with and support the following:
      (1)   The subdivision regulations of the town, as the same may be amended
from time-to-time, which are hereby incorporated in this document by reference;
and
      (2)   The zoning regulations of the town, as the same may be amended from
time-to-time.
   (E)   Form of conveyances. Conveyances shall describe the land involved and
the privileges of the town in a form acceptable to the Board of Selectmen and
shall be duly executed. Such conveyances shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A copy of the abstract of title;
      (2)   A certificate of title;
      (3)   Waiver of mechanics’ liens in a form acceptable to the Town
Counsel; and
      (4)   A letter signed by the Town Tax Collector certifying that any taxes
due to the town have been paid.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 94.03 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permit application. Application for a road construction permit shall
be made to the Board of Selectmen, in writing, and shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Maps and plans. Three copies of approved plans showing the rights-
of-way for streets and drainage easements and plans showing the construction
details prepared and showing the information required by the town subdivision
regulations and any other requirements as stipulated by the Board of Selectmen;
and
      (2)   Fee. A fee of $100 shall accompany the application.
   (B)   Road construction permit. The road construction permit shall be issued
by the Board of Selectmen in writing, and the Board’s approval of the
construction plans shall be endorsed thereon. Such approval and issuance are
subject to the following:
      (1)   Prior approval. In the case of roads within a subdivision, the
approval of the Town Planning and Zoning Commission of the record subdivision
map; and
      (2)   Inspection fee. Payment to the town of an inspection fee equal to
3.5% of the cost of construction as estimated by the Board of Selectmen for
purposes of the completion bond, or $200, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Notification and inspection. The holder of a road construction permit
shall notify the Board of Selectmen and the Town Engineer of his or her
intention to begin the authorized work at least three days prior to so doing,
which notification shall be in writing and shall include a schedule showing
when each stage of work, as hereinafter specified, is to begin. If, due to
weather conditions or other cause, it is found necessary to stop work for a
period exceeding one week, the permittee shall so notify the Board of Selectmen
in writing, and he shall notify the Board in writing of his or her intention to
resume work at least three days prior to so doing.
      (1)   In addition, the permittee shall notify the Board of Selectmen and
the Town Engineer, in writing at least 48 hours before, each of the following
stages of work are begun:
         (a)   Prior to commencing site clearance and after the construction
work has been staked out;
         (b)   Prior to commencing excavation and grading of streets and
installation of embankments;
         (c)   Prior to commencing installation of drainage and other
utilities;
         (d)   Prior to backfilling structures, drainage pipes, facilities and
other utilities;
         (e)   Prior to placement of the base course on the subgrade of a
street;
         (f)   Prior to commencing construction of the paved surface of a
street; and
         (g)   Prior to commencing construction of any sidewalks or other
appurtenant items.
      (2)   The Board of Selectmen shall have three days in which to inspect
the work in each of the above described stages. No work shall begin on the
succeeding stage of construction until the required inspection has been made
and approved by the Board of Selectmen in writing. The Board of Selectmen may
issue a stop-work order and may suspend or revoke the road construction permit
if, in its judgment, the construction project, or any stage thereof, is not
being carried out in accordance with this chapter and the requirements of this
chapter or, if unforeseen field circumstances are encountered for which the
approved plans are insufficient, the Board shall withdraw such stop-work order
and reinstate the permit when it determines that there is compliance therewith.
   (D)   Petition for acceptance. The petition for acceptance of the road by
the town shall be presented to the Board of Selectmen in writing and shall be
signed by the owner of record. The petition shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Map. A copy of the map on file in the Office of the Town Clerk
showing the right-of-way of the road and any easements. For roads within a
subdivision, a copy of the record subdivision map, approved by the Town
Planning and Zoning Commission, may be substituted for such submission;
      (2)   As-built plans. A copy of the construction plans showing the road
drainage, and any other improvements “as-built.” In lieu of such submission,
the construction plans, updated and certified as correct by a professional
engineer, may be substituted; and
      (3)   Maintenance bond. An executed agreement and bond, approved by the
Board of Selectmen, to guarantee remedy of unforeseen deficiencies in the
construction of the road and other improvements shall be prepared. Said bond
shall remain in force for a period of one year from the date on which the road
is accepted by town meeting. The amount of face value of the bond shall be
estimated by the Board of Selectmen as not less than 5% nor more than 50% of
the current cost of the original improvements. The Board of Selectmen may
require the bond to be held for an additional period of one year when, in the
opinion of the Town Engineer, this is warranted due to unusual construction
circumstances.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984; Ord. passed 9-21-1994)
§ 94.04 ROAD DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The standards hereinafter set forth are minimum standards as
the same are applicable to each road classification as assigned by the Town
Planning and Zoning Commission under the town’s subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Width of right-of-way. Roads shall have the following minimum width of
right-of-way according to their classification, and as necessary for
anticipated traffic capacity, type of traffic, turning movements and
construction requirements: local residential: 50 feet. In the event that the
applicant does not own the land adjoining the right-of-way established for a
road, said right-of-way shall have such extra width or area as is necessary to
accommodate all road construction within the right-of-way without encroachment
on the adjoining land. In lieu of extra width or area, the applicant may obtain
rights to slope on the adjoining land provided that such rights are in a form
approved by the Board of Selectmen.
   (C)   Width of pavement. Roads shall have the following width of pavement
centered between road lines. When curbs are required, the width is that area
lying between the faces of the two curbs.
      (1)   Local residential. Twenty-two feet minimum. (Roads within
subdivisions ate subject to the planning and zoning subdivision regulations.)
      (2)   Turnarounds. Fifty-foot radius. Fifty-two-foot radius when curbed.
   (D)   Grade. The minimum grade for any street shall be 1%. The maximum grade
shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   Local residential: 10%;
      (2)   Turnarounds: 5%; and
      (3)   Arterial and collector streets: 8%.
   (E)   Vertical curves. Vertical curves shall provide a minimum stopping
sight distance of 200 feet on local residential streets. The design speed shall
be subject to the approval of the Board of Selectmen.
   (F)   Intersections. The following standards shall apply to street
intersections.
      (1)   Spacing. No more than two roads shall intersect at one point.
Centerlines of intersections shall be spaced not less than 500 feet apart,
except when conditions justify a variance.
      (2)   Angle of intersection. Roads shall intersect one another at or as
near to a right angle as is practical. No intersection shall be at an angle of
less than 60 degrees and not more than 120 degrees for a distance of at least
100 feet from the line of intersection.
      (3)   Corner lots. At a street intersection, property line corners shall
be rounded by an arc having a minimum radius of 32 feet or more if required by
roadway radii.
      (4)   Approach grades. The approach grades at intersections shall be no
more than 2% for side roads for 100 feet. Side roads at intersectional sight
distances of at least 300 feet for local roads. The driver’s eye shall be
assumed to be 20 feet behind curb line and sight distance shall be in
accordance with the Geometric Design Guide for Local Roads and Streets,
published by the American Association of State Highway Officials.
   (G)   Horizontal alignment. Connecting curves between tangents shall be
provided for all deflection angles in excess of five degrees. Suitable tangents
shall be provided between curves with a minimum tangent distance of 150 feet
between reverse curves:
      (1)   Local residential. One hundred fifty feet (minimum radius as
measured along the roadway centerline); and
      (2)   Arterial and collector streets. Three hundred fifty feet (minimum
radius as measured along the roadway centerline).
   (H)   Construction. Roads shall be constructed in accordance with the
following standards.
      (1)   Survey. A centerline survey of the road shall be run in the field
and suitable construction ties established to all control points. Stations
shall be established at 50-foot intervals and all points of curvature and
points of tangency. A construction stake shall be placed perpendicular, or
radial in the case of curves, at each station on both sides of the road, and
clear of all construction. The construction stake shall be marked with the
station, offset to centerline and cut or fill to profile grade as measured from
the top of the stake. A stake sheet showing the stations, profile grade, stake
offsets, and glades and cuts and fills shall be prepared and presented to the
Board of Selectmen before construction begins. Permanent benchmarks shall be
established and recorded with the Board of Selectmen throughout the length of
the project at 500-foot intervals or as directed by the Board. The datum for
benchmarks shall be town, state or U.S. datum; an assumed datum may be used
only with the written permission of the Board of Selectmen. Changes in
horizontal or vertical alignment of the road from the approved plans shall not
be made except with written permission of the Board of Selectmen. Grade stakes
shall be protected and preserved until the construction work is approved by the
Board of Selectmen.
      (2)   Clearing. The entire area of the right-of-way required to be graded
in accordance with the standard cross-section shall be cleared of trees,
stumps, brush, roots, large rocks, ledge and other unsuitable materials, except
that trees suitable for street trees shall be left standing as directed by the
Board of Selectmen or the Planning and Zoning Commission, in the case of a
subdivision.
      (3)   Subgrade. For the full width of the required pavement, plus two
feet where curbs are used, all loam, organic material, soft clay, spongy
material, boulders, ledge and other unsuitable material shall be removed and
replaced by materials approved by the Board of Selectmen. All fill that is
placed to an elevation of less than three feet above the water table at the
time of filling shall consist of stone, gravel or other free-draining soil
approved by the Board of Selectmen. Where ledge rock is encountered, it shall
be removed to a depth of one foot below subgrade and the area backfilled with
crushed stone or gravel. Embankments shall be constructed of crushed stone,
gravel or the suitable material deposited in successive layers, for the full
width of the embankment The subgrade shall be rolled with a minimum ten-ton
roller or equivalent before placing the base course. All underground drainage
and utilities shall be installed prior to completion of the subgrade for
receiving the base course.
      (4)   Base course. A base course not less than 16 inches (the bottom 12
inches to meet Grade A standards and the top four inches to meet Grade C
standards of State DOT Form 814) in depth and for the full width of pavement
plus two feet where the curbs are used shall be constructed of processed stone
or processed gravel in accordance with Form 814. The base course shall be
rolled with a minimum ten-ton roller and shaped with a cross slope of one-
quarter inch per foot from the centerline. (Standard Proctor tests shall be run
on the base course in accordance with accepted engineering practice unless such
tests are waived by the Board of Selectmen.) Any areas of the base course,
which have become impervious due to concentration of fine materials shall be
scarified and recompacted.
      (5)   Surface course. The paved surface shall have a cross slope of one-
quarter inch per foot from the centerline and shall be constructed of two
courses of bituminous concrete, each one and one-half inches in depth after
compaction to the full required width plus two feet where curbs are used. An
emulsion tack coat is required when three successive days pass between the
laying of the base course and successive courses. Construction methods shall
conform to Form 814. Materials shall conform to Form 814, Bituminous Concrete
Paving Mixtures Binder Course Grading II. The course shall be Class I
Bituminous Concrete.
      (6)   Curbs. Granite, concrete or bituminous concrete lip curbs, or
combinations thereof shall be provided in areas deemed appropriate by the Board
of Selectmen or, in the case of subdivisions, by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Such curbs shall be located on the outer edge of the completed
pavement All curbing shall have a cross section approved by the Board of
Selectmen. Granite curbing will have a base of six inches and a height of 20
inches. The curbing will be set on edge with six inches of exposed face
(smooth) above the finish pavement course. Concrete curbing shall have a base
of eight inches and a total height of 20 inches of which six inches shall be
located above the finished surface course of the street. Bituminous lip curbing
will be laid on top of the binder course, an emulsion tack coat will be used
prior to setting curbing. Place curbing as shown on typical roadway section.
All work and materials for the different types of curbing shall conform to Form
814.
      (7)   Slopes. All earth surfaces of slopes, and areas that have been
disturbed in any way due to grading and construction of the roads, shall be
covered with a minimum of four inches of top soil and suitably seeded or
planted and mulched to prevent soil erosion. The Board of Selectmen may require
the removal or lowering of embankments adjacent to street intersections in
order to assure adequate sight distance at the intersection. No cut or fill
sections beyond the right-of-way shall extend into property outside the
subdivision or property not owned by the applicant, unless appropriate slope
rights/appropriate retaining walls shall be constructed within, the subdivision
to prevent encroachment upon adjoining property, provided these do not obstruct
sight lines.
      (8)   Underdrains. The Board of Selectmen may require the installation of
suitable under drains beneath the street pavement or in the right-of-way where
necessary to protect the stability of the pavement.
      (9)   Guide rails. Suitable guide railing shall be installed along all
roads where there will be a “fill” embankment with a depth of four feet or more
within 20 feet of the edge of the pavement, except that, upon written approval
of the Board of Selectmen, guide rails will not be required where embankment
slopes are no steeper than six to one.
      (10)   Sidewalk ramps. Sidewalk ramps shall be constructed on all new
streets at crosswalks, or on existing streets at crosswalks when either the
curb or sidewalk is reconstructed or repaired.
   (I)   Cross-section. Local residential roads shall be designed with a cross-
section in accordance with the cross-section details that are a part of these
specifications and as stated above.
   (J)   Soils report. When deemed necessary by the Board of Selectmen, a soils
report shall be prepared for any roadway construction by a competent licensed
professional engineer. The content of such report and the qualifications of the
preparer shall be subject to the Board of Selectmen, or its authorizing
agent’s, review and approval.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984; Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 94.05 DRAINAGE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Storm drainage design. Storm drainage for roads shall be planned and
designed in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Pipe and ditches. Sufficient pipe shall be installed to carry
existing watercourses in the street right-of-way and to drain both the proposed
street or streets or extensions thereof or other streets which, based on
topography will be served by the same drainage systems. No open ditches or
channels shall be provided in the street right-of-way except with the express
written permission of the Board of Selectmen, and adequate provision is made to
maintain the standard cross-section, and for protective guide posts or rails as
may be required to insure public safety. Road drainage systems shall be
coordinated with, general drainage requirements for the use and development of
the adjoining land.
      (2)   Design storm. Flows for roadways and roadway storm drains shall be
designed using a minimum 25-year design storm frequency. Flows developed for
drainage areas with no established watercourse shall be based on a 50-year
design storm frequency. Drainage basins with designated watercourses shall use
a design frequency of 50 years for average annual daily stream flows of less
than five c.f.s. and 100 years for average annual daily stream flows greater
than five c.f.s. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to adequately
demonstrate whether a stream flow is less than or greater than five c.f.s.
using stream gauging stations, published government documents and other
acceptable statistical rainfall data as determined by the Town Engineer.
      (3)   Design methods. The Rational Method may be used for drainage areas
of 200 acres or less. For areas greater than 200 acres, the SCS method, FHWA
method or USGS method shall be used as approved by the Board of Selectmen and/
or the Town Engineer.
      (4)   Pipe design. The minimum size of a stormwater pipe shall be 15
inches in diameter. Coefficients used in design for reinforced concrete pipe
shall be N=0.015 and for asphalt-coated corrugated pipe shall be N=0.021. The
minim vim slopes of pipe shall be 0.5%.
      (5)   Pipe size and slope. Pipe size and slope shall be such that the
head on the invert will not exceed two point zero (2.0) diameter at design
storm and this head shall be contained without damage to any adjacent property.
Pipe, except for under drains, shall be laid on straight alignments, both
horizontally and vertically, with manholes and catch basins providing access at
all deflection points or at the junction of two or more lines. The open end of
any pipe shall be provided with an end well, culvert end or other appropriate
device. The minimum cover over the top of the pipe shall be three feet.
Culverts under streets shall extend to the edge of the right-of-way.
      (6)   Spacing of catch basins. Catch basins shall be connected to a
stormwater pipe and shall be provided in sufficient number and suitable
locations to properly drain the surface. Surface water shall not travel on any
street a distance of more than 300 feet unless otherwise approved by the Board
of Selectmen. No surface water shall travel across any intersections. Spacing
and number of basins must be supported by complete gutter flow analysis.
      (7)   Discharge. The discharge of all stormwater shall be into suitable
streams or rivers or into town or state drains or ditches or other town
drainage facilities with adequate capacity to carry the additional water. Where
the discharge shall be into private property adjoining the street, proper
easements and discharge rights shall be secured by the applicant for the town
before approval of the drainage plan. Discharge shall be done in a manner that
protects watercourses and wetlands from pollution and shall not increase flood
hazard due to increase in runoff. Plunge pools and other devices shall be
employed to reduce velocities, as directed by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Drainage construction. Storm drainage shall be constructed in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Pipe. Stormwater pipe shall conform to one of the following
standards.
         (a)   In general, asphalt-coated corrugated metal pipe shall be used
where culvert gradients are in excess of 10% or unsuitable base is encountered,
such as organic soils areas. Said pipe shall conform to Form 814, shall be
minimum 16 gauge and have paved invert.
         (b)   Reinforced concrete pipe shall be Class IV and conform to Form
814.
      (2)   Methods. Prior to laying pipe, the trench shall be excavated to the
required depth, the bottom of which shall be graded to afford a uniformly firm
bearing for the pipe throughout its length. Where rock is encountered, it shall
be excavated to not less than 12 inches below the bottom of the trench and this
depth shall be refilled with crushed stone approved by the Board of Selectmen.
All pipe shall be carefully laid, true to the lines and grades given, hubs
upgrade and with the spigot ends fully entered into adjacent hubs. Preferably,
joints in concrete pipes shall have rubber gaskets; otherwise joints shall be
thoroughly wetted and filled with a portland cement mortar and caulked.
Asphalt-coated corrugated metal pipe shall be carefully joined and firmly
clamped together by approved connecting bands, which shall be properly bolted
in place before any backfill is placed. Backfill will consist of clean well
graded soil free from large stones, frozen lumps, wood or other debris.
Backfill shall be placed in layers of not more than six inches and adequately
compacted. Any suitable material removed in excavating for the trench may be
used as backfill. Fill approximately the same elevation at the same time. Rock
fill or stones larger than two inches shall not be placed closer than two feet
from the pipe on the sides as well as the top.
      (3)   Appurtenances. Catch basins, manholes, drop inlets, end wells and
other appurtenances to the storm drainage system shall be constructed in
accordance with Form 814 and the Connecticut State Highway Department Standard
Sheets.
      (4)   Cleaning. All pipe and drainage structures shall be thoroughly
cleaned prior to acceptance of the road and drainage system by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 94.06 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Special structures. Bridges, box culverts, deep manholes and other
special structures shall be designed and constructed, where required, in
accordance with good engineering practice and Form 814, and as approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Selectmen.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks, where required, shall be a minimum of four feet
in width and, when provided in connection with a road, shall be located within
the street right-of-way lines as shown on the typical cross-section. The
sidewalk shall be constructed in accordance with the following standards as
approved by the Board of Selectmen.
      (1)   Cement concrete sidewalks shall be laid on a four-inch gravel base,
tamped and rolled, and shall be constructed four inches thick having expansion
joints with pre-molded fillers spaced every ten feet and suitable weakened plan
joints.
      (2)   Sidewalks will be ramped at intersections at a one inch vertical to
12-inch horizontal slope to meet State Building Code Requirements for
handicapped access.
   (C)   Driveways. Sidewalks crossing driveways that are subject to heavy
vehicular traffic shall be laid on a gravel base 12 inches thick. Driveways
shall be constructed as per the requirements of the residential driveway
ordinance for the town.
   (D)   Street signs. Street signs shall be installed at all intersections in
locations approved by the Board of Selectmen. Traffic signs shall also be
installed as required by the Board of Selectmen. Such signs shall be of a
design and material approved by the Board of Selectmen.
   (E)   Underground utilities. Electric, telephone lines and facilities in new
streets shall be installed underground unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission has determined that such underground installation is inappropriate
or unfeasible. Wherever possible, such lines and facilities shall be installed
after the street right-of-way has been graded, but prior to installation of the
base course for the pavement
   (F)   Monuments. Monuments shall be provided by the applicant on both sides
of the street right-of-way and shall be set at the beginning and termination of
each street, and at each point of curvature and tangency. Monuments shall be of
stone or reinforced concrete 36 inches in length and four inches square at the
top with across or other measuring feature in the top center. Monuments shall
be set 34 inches in the ground after all project grading is complete. If ledge
is encountered, a brass plug, one-half inch by three inches, shall be set in
the ledge and secured with a Portland cement mortar. In lieu of a brass plug, a
drill hole of one-half inch minimum diameter may be set if the ledge is fully
exposed. The cost of such monuments shall be included in the bond.
   (G)   Fire wells and ponds. All required fire wells, underground water
storage tanks and ponds with drafting basins shall be constructed in accordance
with good engineering practice and designs approved by the Board of Selectmen
or its authorized agent. The location and arrangement of all firefighting
facilities shall be coordinated with the local fire departments.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984; Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 94.07 EXISTING TOWN ROAD ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Excavations, cuts, pills and changes of grade. All excavations, cuts,
fills, changes of grade and other work performed within existing town road
rights-of-way shall conform to the specifications throughout this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall excavate in, fill, cut or change the
grade or cause any excavation, fill, cut or change of grade to be made to any
highway or street maintained by the town without first having obtained a permit
from the First Selectman or the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Bond; insurance required. No permit to excavate, fill or change the
grade of any such highway or street shall be granted to any person until he or
she shall have filed with the First Selectman or Director of Public Works a
surety bond in the amount equal to the cost, as estimated by the Director of
Public Works, of the restoration of any highway or street to as good a
condition as it was before such excavation, fill, cut or change of grade, with
the same surface material, and that he or she will comply with the plan of the
work to be done as filed with and approved by the First Selectman or Director
of Public Works, and also such person shall have given the First Selectman or
Director of Public Works satisfactory evidence of insurance protecting both the
town and the permittee against personal injuries and property damage in an
amount to be determined by the First Selectman or Director of Public Works
depending upon the location, amount of traffic, estimated length of time the
work will require, type of material to be excavated or cut and any other
conditions which might affect the risk involved.
   (D)   Areas included in street or highway. As used herein, highway or street
shall include any portion of the entire width of the right-of-way, including
the traveled portion, and the shoulders of any unimproved or undeveloped
portion of the highway or street.
   (E)   Advanced notice of construction. Under this permit program, the town
shall be provided three days’ advanced notice of the planned start of
construction within town road rights-of way.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 94.08 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Road plan and profile map. A one-inch to 40-foot horizontal scale road
plan, with the corresponding stationed segment of centerline profile, at a
vertical scale of one inch to four feet will be submitted. Such plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state whose
seal, name and registration number should clearly be placed thereon.
      (1)   The horizontal scale plan shall have:
         (a)   Fifty-foot stationing;
         (b)   Curve information (PT, PC, PI);
         (c)   All drainage structures utilizing a sequenced numbering system
consistent with all submitted designs (inverts in, inverts out, top of frame
elevations);
         (d)   Pipes – slope, size and type;
         (e)   Utilities; placement (electric, telephone, cable television,
water and sewer), where applicable;
         (f)   Specific soil erosion control measures;
         (g)   Sidewalk placement;
         (h)   Accurate existing (not to be represented by less than two-foot
intervals) and a proposed finished grading plan;
         (i)   Monumentation;
         (j)   All proposed driveway returns and aprons; and
         (k)   Location of road test pits every 150 feet.
      (2)   The vertical profile shall have:
         (a)   All vertical curve information (Pvt, Pvc, Pvi, high points and
low points);
         (b)   Drainage structures in profile; and
         (c)   Accurate existing and proposed centerline grades and existing
grade at edge of pavement both right and left sides.
      (3)   Drainage report. In the construction and layout of new streets in a
subdivision, adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of surface and
stormwater.
      (4)   The report will include:
         (a)   Rational method or TR-55 of analysis for areas under 200 acres
or TR-20 for areas over 200 acres;
         (b)   Total drainage area delineated on the USGS or equivalent
mapping;
         (c)   Two maps depicting the entire drainage area that will attribute
specific areas of concentration to the appropriate drainage structure; and
         (d)   A gutter flow analysis (storm sewer design analysis) shall be
submitted on state standard forms or equivalent
   (B)   Erosion and sedimentation control plan.
      (1)   A Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan shall contain proper
provisions to adequately control accelerated erosion and sediment and reduce
the danger from stormwater runoff on the proposed site based on the best
available technology. Such principles, methods and practices necessary for
certification are found in the Connecticut Guidelines for Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control (1985), as amended. Alternative principles, methods and
practices may be used with prior approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission
or the Board of Selectmen.
      (2)   Said plan shall contain, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A narrative describing:
            1.   The development, as defined in these regulations;
            2.   The schedule for grading and construction activities:
               a.   Sequence of grading and construction activities;
               b.   Sequence for installation and/or application of soil
erosion and sedimentation control measures, including temporary stabilization;
               c.   Sequence and specifications for final stabilization of the
project site, including all final landscaping; and
               d.   Contingency or emergency plans in case of failed erosion
and sedimentation control systems and installations.
            3.   The design criteria for proposed soil erosion and
sedimentation control measures and stormwater management facilities;
            4.   The construction details for proposed soil erosion and
sedimentation control measures and stormwater management facilities;
            5.   The installation and/or application procedures for proposed
soil and sedimentation control measures and stormwater management facilities;
            6.   The operations and maintenance program for proposed soil
erosion and sedimentation control measures and stormwater management
facilities;
            7.   Identification of a designated site individual responsible for
installation, monitoring and correction of sedimentation control plan
requirements, and authorised to take corrective actions as required to ensure
compliance with certified plans; and
            8.   The character of existing vegetation and the effect the
development will have on the natural vegetation.
         (b)   A site plan map at a sufficient scale to show:
            1.   The location of the proposed development and adjacent
properties;
            2.   The existing and proposed topography, including soil types,
wetlands, watercourses and water bodies;
            3.   The existing structures on the project site, if any;
            4.   The proposed area alterations, including cleared, excavated,
filled or graded areas and proposed structures, utilities, roads and existing,
new or altered property lines;
            5.   The location of and design details for all proposed soil
erosion and sedimentation;
            6.   Control measures and stormwater management facilities;
            7.   The sequence of grading and construction activities;
            8.   The sequence for installation and/or application of soil
erosion and sedimentation control measures;
            9.   The sequence for final stabilization of the development site;
            10.   Existing vegetation patterns and limits and extent of
vegetation clearing beyond grading limits; and
            11.   A certification block entitled “Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Plan certified by vote of the Town Planning and Zoning Commission.”
         (c)   Any other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the
applicant or requested by the Planning and Zoning Commission or its designated
agent.
      (3)   Minimum acceptable standards:
         (a)   Plans for soil erosion and sedimentation control shall be
developed in accordance with these Regulations using the principles as outlined
in Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 of the Connecticut Guidelines for Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control (1985), as amended.
         (b)   The minimum standards for individual measures are those in the
Connecticut Guidelines for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control (1985), as
amended. The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant exceptions, when
requested by the applicant, if technically sound reasons are presented in
writing.
         (c)   The appropriate method from Chapter 9 of the Connecticut
Guidelines for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control (1985), as amended, shall be
used in determining peak flow rates and volumes of runoff, unless an
alternative method is approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 94.09 VALIDITY.
   This chapter shall be governed by the laws of the state. In the event that
any provision or clause of this chapter conflicts with applicable law, such
conflict shall not affect other provisions of this chapter which can be given
effect without the conflicting provisions and to this end the provisions of
this chapter are declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
APPENDIX A: FORMS AND PERMITS

TOWN OF SALEM
APPLICATION FOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION PERMIT
I hereby apply for a permit to construct a road, drainage or make other
improvements in accordance with the design and construction specifications of
the Town of Salem, Connecticut
LOCATION:
________________________________________________________________________
OWNER: ________________________________      PHONE:
_____________________________
ADDRESS: ______________________________      EMAIL:
______________________________
DEVELOPER: ___________________________      PHONE:
______________________________
ADDRESS: ______________________________      EMAIL:
______________________________
GENERAL CONTRACTOR: _______________      PHONE: ______________________________
ADDRESS: ______________________________      EMAIL:
_______________________________
NAME OF SURETY COMPANY:
________________________________________________________
AMOUNT OF SURETY BOND: ________________________________________________________
APPROXIMATE TIME REQUIRED TO COMPLETE WORK: _______________________________
DESIRED STARTING DATE:
___________________________________________________________
ISSUE PERMIT TO:
_________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS: _______________________________      PHONE:
_______________________________
                           EMAIL: _______________________________
Submit two (2) copies of street rights-of-way and any easements for drainage:
MAP TITLE: ______________________________________________________________
ENGINEER: ______________________________________________________________
Before this permit is issued, I agree to furnish the required bonds and any
required inspection fees, as outlined in the DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
of the Town of Salem.
An application fee of $100 is submitted herewith.
__________________________________
Applicant
Town of Salem
APPLICATION FOR EXCAVATION PERMIT
OF AN EXISTING TOWN ROAD
Application is hereby made for a permit to excavate at:
____________________________________________            __________________________
Street address                              Assessor Lot #
For the purpose of
____________________________________________________________________
PROPERTY OWNER:
_________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS: _______________________________      PHONE/EMAIL:
______________________
PERMIT VALID FROM _______________________________   TO
__________________________
Excavation plans shall be submitted with this application or a sketch of the
excavation shall be shown on the back of this application.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Any excavation remaining open overnight shall be properly fenced and lighted.
______________
    ______________________________________________________________
    ______________________________________________________________
Site inspected and approved for excavation:
_______________________________      _____________
                                 Public Works Director            Date
Under the Code of Ordinances for the Town of Salem, a current certificate of
insurance and a surety bond shall be on file in the Public Works Department or
First Selectman’s office before this Excavation Permit can be issued.
The undersigned hereby agrees that if approval is granted to excavate as
requested in this application, that the Town of Salem will be held harmless and
free from any liability for damages caused by reason of such excavation, and
further, that if at any time within one (1) year from the date of this
application’s approval the excavation has not been properly filled and the
street restored to as good a condition as it was before excavation, the Town of
Salem may repair same and charge the expense to the undersigned.
NO EXCAVATION SHALL TAKE PLACE IN REGARDS TO THIS APPLICATION UNTIL THREE (3)
DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF APPROVAL.
Application Date: _____________________      Applicant’s Signature:
_______________________
Company Name: _____________________      Phone/Email:
_____________________________
Address:
___________________________________________________________________________
FINAL INSPECTION: _____________________________________   DATE: _______________
            Public Works Director/First Selectman
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
      
111.   FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
      
112.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
Section
   
110.01   Allowance of operation
§ 110.01 ALLOWANCE OF OPERATION.
   The town voted for allowing the operation of bazaars and raffles, at a
special town meeting, September 14, 1957.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1957)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD SERVICE SANITATION
Section
   
111.01   Definition
    
111.02   License
   
111.03   Issuance of licenses
   
111.04   Establishment of classes and fees
   
111.05   Expiration of permanent licenses
   
111.06   Suspension of licenses
   
111.07   Revocation of licenses
   
111.08   Service of notices
   
111.09   Hearings
   
111.10   Reapplication
   
111.11   Submission of plans
   
111.12   Pre-operational inspection
   
111.13   Examination and condemnation of food
   
111.14   Food service establishments outside the jurisdiction of the town
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT is any place where food that is intended for
individual service and consumption is provided. The term includes any such
place regardless of whether there is a charge for the food. The term does not
include a private home where food is prepared for individual family consumption
and it does not include the location of food vending machines.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.02 LICENSE.
   No person shall operate a food service establishment who does not have a
valid license issued to him or her by the Director of Health, as appointed by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 19a-200. Only a person who complies with the requirements of
this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state shall be entitled to
receive or retain such a license. Licenses are not transferable. A valid
license shall be posted in every food service establishment. Licenses for
temporary food service establishments shall be issued for a period of time not
to exceed 14 consecutive days.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment shall make
written application for a license on forms provided by the Director of Health.
Such application shall include the name and address of each applicant, the
location and type of the proposed food service establishment and the signature
of each applicant. It shall also include the date of the proposed application.
   (B)   Prior to approval of an application for a license, the Director of
Health or his or her authorized agent shall inspect the proposed food service
establishment to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the Public Health Code of the state, Chapter 368a. Department of Public Health
(Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-1 to 19a-134).
   (C)   The Director of Health shall issue a license to the applicant if the
inspection reveals that the proposed food service establishment complies with
the requirements of this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF CLASSES AND FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a non-refundable $10 initial application fee for any
food service license.
   (B)   The following special classes of food service establishments and
annual permit fees are adopted:
      (1)   Food service establishment with a seating capacity of one to 49
persons: $150;
      (2)   Food service establishment with a seating capacity of 50 to 100
persons: 200;
      (3)   Food service establishment with a seating capacity of 101+ persons:
$225;
      (4)   Convenience store, take out service, bakery, grocery store, deli:
$125;
      (5)   Itinerant food vendors and caterers: $80;
      (6)   Seasonal food establishments: $75;
      (7)   Temporary food establishments (maximum of 14 days): $50;
      (8)   Nonprofit social, fraternal and recreational organizations with
permanent kitchen facilities: $50; and
      (9)   Public schools, churches, synagogues and community service
organizations: $1.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.05 EXPIRATION OF PERMANENT LICENSES.
   All licenses shall expire on January 1 and may be renewed for another year
upon application and payment of the annual fee. There will be no administrative
charge for a renewal application. Renewal applications will be routinely
accepted and processed in the month of December.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Director of Health may, without prior warning, notice or hearing,
suspend any license to operate a food service establishment if the license
holder does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, or the Public
Health Code of the state, Chapter 368a. Department of Public Health (Conn. Gen.
Stat. §§ 19a-1 to 19a-134), or if the operation of the establishment does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter or the Public Health Code of the
state, or if the operation of the food service establishment otherwise
constitutes a substantial hazard to public health. Suspension is effective upon
service of the notice as required by §
111.08. When a license is suspended, food service operations shall immediately
cease. Whenever a license is suspended, the license holder shall be afforded an
opportunity for an appeal within ten days of the receipt of the suspension.
   (B)   Whenever a license is suspended or revoked, the license holder or
person in charge shall be notified in writing that the license is, upon service
of the notice immediately suspended, and that an opportunity for an appeal is
provided if a written request for an appeal is filed with the Director of
Health by the license holder within 48 hours. If no request is filed within 48
hours, the suspension becomes final. The Director of Health may end the
suspension at any time if reasons for suspension no longer exist.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The Director of Health may, after providing an opportunity for an appeal,
revoke a license for serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements
of this chapter or the Public Health Code of the state, Chapter 368a.
Department of Public Health (Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-1 to 19a-134), or for
interference with the Director of Health or his or her authorized agent in the
performance of their duties. Prior to revocation, the Director of Health shall
notify the license holder or person in charge, in writing, of the reasons for
which the license is subject to revocation, and that the license shall be
revoked at the end of ten days following service of such notice unless a
request for an appeal is filed with the Director of Health by the license
holder within 48 hours. If no request for an appeal is filed within 48 hours,
the revocation of the license becomes final.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.08 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   A notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the license holder or person in charge or when it is sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the license holder. A copy of any notice shall be filed in the
records of the Director of Health.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.09 HEARINGS.
   The appeals provided for in this chapter shall be conducted by the Director
of Health at a time and place designated by the Director of Health. Based upon
the recorded evidence of such appeal, the Director of Health shall make a final
finding, and may vacate, modify or affirm any notice or order considered in the
appeal. A written report of the appeal decision shall be furnished to the
license holder by the Director of Health.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.10 REAPPLICATION.
   Whenever a suspension or revocation of a license has become final, the
holder of the suspended or revoked license may make written application for
reinstatement of the license or for a new license, as provided for in §
111.03, after the expiration of 60 days. No administrative application fee will
be charged for a requested reinstatement of a suspended license, but an
application fee of $10 will be required when applying to be licensed again
following the loss of a license.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.11 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Whenever a food service establishment is constructed or remodeled, and
whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food service
establishment, properly prepared plans and specifications for such
construction, remodeling or alteration shall be submitted to the Director of
Health or his or her authorized agent for review and approval before
construction, remodeling or alteration is begun. The plans and specifications
shall indicate the proposed layout and the type and model of proposed fixed
equipment and sanitary facilities. The Director of Health or his or her
authorized agent shall approve the plans and specifications if they meet the
requirements of this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state. No food
service establishment shall be constructed, remodeled or altered except in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director of Health or
his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.12 PRE-OPERATIONAL INSPECTION.
   Whenever plans and specifications are required by §
111.11 to be submitted to the Director of Health or his or her authorized
agent, the Director of Health or his or her authorized agent shall inspect the
food service establishment prior to its beginning operation to determine
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and with the requirements
of this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.13 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD.
   Food may be examined or sampled by the Director of Health as often as
necessary for enforcement of this chapter or the Public Health Code of the
state. The Director of Health may, upon written notice to the owner or person
in charge specifying with particularity the reasons therefor, place a hold
order on any food which he or she believes is in violation of the Public Health
Code of the state or any section of this chapter. The Director of Health or his
or her authorized agent shall tag, label or otherwise identify any food subject
to the hold order. No food subject to a hold order shall be used, served or
moved from the establishment. The Director of Health shall permit storage of
the food under conditions specified in the hold order, unless storage is not
possible without risk to the public health, in which case immediate destruction
shall be ordered and accomplished. The holder shall state that a request for
hearing may be filed with the Director of Health within 48 hours and that if no
hearing is requested, the food shall be destroyed. A hearing shall be held if
so requested, and on the basis of evidence produced at that hearing, the hold
order may be vacated or the owner or person in charge of the food may be
directed by written order to denature or destroy such food or to bring it into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or the Public Health Code of the
state.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.14 FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE THE JURISDICTION OF THE TOWN.
   Food from food service establishments outside the jurisdiction of the
Director of Health of the town may be sold within the town if such food service
establishment conforms to the provisions of this chapter or to substantially
equivalent provisions. To determine the extent of compliance with such
provisions, the Director of Health may accept reports from responsible
authorities in other jurisdictions where such food service establishments are
located.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter and/or
the Public Health Code of the state shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. In
addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined from continuing such violations.
Each day upon which such a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1984)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Policy statement
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Operating requirement
   
112.05   Application for license
   
112.06   Standards for issuance of license
    
112.07   Fees
   
112.08   Renewal of license permit
   
112.09   Revocation of license
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Adult-Oriented Business Ordinance for
the Town of Salem.”
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.02 POLICY STATEMENT.
   The town meeting finds:
   (A)   Adult-oriented establishments located in the town require supervision
from the town’s Public Safety and Zoning Enforcement agencies in order to
protect and preserve the health, safety and welfare of the patrons of such
establishments, as well as the health, safety and welfare of the town’s
citizens;
   (B)   Statistics and studies performed by a substantial number of cities and
towns in the United States indicate that:
      (1)   Large numbers of persons, primarily male, frequent such adult-
oriented establishments, especially those which provide closed booths,
cubicles, studios and rooms for the private viewing of so-called adult motion
pictures and/or video tapes and/or live entertainment;
      (2)   Persons under the age of 18 may be attracted to adult-oriented
establishments and seek to enter or loiter about them without the knowledge or
permission of their parents or guardians;
      (3)   Closed booths, cubicles, studios and rooms within adult-oriented
establishments have been used by patrons, clients or customers of such adult-
oriented establishments for the purpose of engaging in certain sexual acts;
      (4)   Male and female prostitutes have been known to frequent such
establishments in order to provide sex for hire to the patrons, clients or
customers of such establishments within such booths, cubicles, studios and
rooms;
      (5)   Doors, curtains, blinds and/or other closures installed in or on
the entrances and/or exits of such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms which
are closed while such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms are in use encourage
patrons using such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms to engage in sexual acts
therein with prostitutes, thereby promoting and encouraging prostitution and
the commission of sexual acts which cause blood, semen and urine to be
deposited on the floors and/or walls of such booths, cubicles, studios and
rooms, which deposits could prove detrimental to the health and safety of other
persons who may come in contact with such deposits; and
      (6)   The reasonable regulation and supervision of such adult-oriented
establishments tends to discourage such sexual acts and prostitution, and
thereby promotes the health, safety and welfare of the patrons, clients and
customers of such establishments.
   (C)   The continued unregulated operation of adult-oriented establishments
including, without limitation, those specifically cited at division (A) above,
is and would be detrimental to the general welfare, health and safety of the
citizens of the town;
   (D)   The Constitution and laws of the State grant to the Town powers,
especially police power, to enact reasonable legislation and measures to
regulate and supervise adult-oriented establishments as hereinafter defined in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare; and
   (E)   It is not the intent of the town meeting, in enacting this chapter, to
deny any person rights to speech protected by the United States and/or State
Constitutions, nor is it the intent of the town meeting to impose any
additional limitations or restrictions on the contents of any communicative
materials, including sexually-oriented films, video tapes, books and/or other
materials. Further, by enacting this chapter, the town meeting does not intend
to deny or restrict the rights of any adult to obtain and/or view any sexually-
oriented materials protected by the United States and/or State Constitutions,
nor does it intend to restrict or deny any constitutionally protected rights
that distributors or exhibitors of such sexually-oriented materials may have to
sell, distribute or exhibit such materials.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Includes any amusement machine that is regularly
used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or related to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas,” as defined below, for observation by patrons.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having any portion of its stock and trade
in books, films, video cassettes, compact discs or magazines and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas.” This definition shall not apply to any
establishment in which such materials are concealed so as not to permit the
observation of “specified sexual activities” and “specified anatomical areas”
by the general public.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition of any motion pictures, video tapes,
live performances, displays or dances of any type, which has as a significant
or substantial portion of such performances any actual or simulated performance
of “specified sexual activities” or exhibition and viewing of “specified
anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building regularly used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” as defined below for observation by patrons
therein.
   ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, without limitation, “adult
bookstores,” “adult motion picture theaters” and commercial establishments
containing one or more “adult amusement machines.” ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT
further means any premises to which the public, patrons or members are invited
or admitted and which are so physically arranged as to provide booths,
cubicles, rooms, studios, compartments or stalls separate from the common areas
of the premises for the purpose of viewing adult entertainment when such
establishment is operated or maintained for a profit, direct or indirect.
   AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Includes any machine which, upon the payment of a charge
or upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disk, may be operated by
the public for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score and whether or not electronically operated.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including independent contractors, who work
in or at or render any services directly related to the operation of an adult-
oriented establishment.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within an adult-oriented
establishment as defined in this section, whether or not a fee is charged or
accepted for entertainment and whether or not entertainment is provided as an
employee or an independent contractor.
   INSPECTOR. An agent of the Director of Health, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, the Building Official, any Police Officer, the Fire Marshal and any
person to whom any of those officials or the Board of Selectmen may delegate
the duty to perform functions under this chapter.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
   OPERATOR. Any person, partnership or corporation operating, conducting or
maintaining an adult-oriented establishment.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals and pubic region;
         (b)   Buttocks; and
         (c)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS and SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Do not include
materials depicted in any medical publications or films, any art or photography
publications which devote at least 25% of the lineage of each issue to articles
and advertisements dealing with subjects of art or photography, in any news
periodical which reports or describes current events and which, from time to
time, publishes photographs of nude or semi-nude persons in connection with the
dissemination of the news, or in publications or films which describe and
report different cultures which, from time to time, publish or show photographs
or depictions of nude or semi-nude persons when describing cultures in which
nudity or semi-nudity is indigenous to the population.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
   TOWN MEETING. The town meeting of the Town of Salem, Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.04 OPERATING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No operator or employee of an adult-oriented establishment shall allow
or permit any minor to enter into such establishment or to loiter upon the
grounds and parking lot of such establishment.
   (B)   Each adult-oriented establishment shall display prominently a sign in
the dimensions of 24 inches by 24 inches outside of, and adjacent to, each
entrance bearing the words “Adult-Oriented Establishment - Persons Under 18 Not
Admitted” in white letters against a red background.
   (C)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be conducted in such a manner
that permits the observation of any material depicting specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas from outside of the building that
houses the adult-oriented establishment.
   (D)   Every adult-oriented establishment doing business in the town on and
after the effective date of this chapter shall be well lighted at all times and
be physically arranged in such a manner that the entire interior portion of the
booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls, wherein adult entertainment is provided,
shall be clearly visible from the common areas of the premises. Visibility into
such booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls shall not be blocked or obscured by
doors, curtains, partitions, drapes or any other obstruction whatsoever. After
the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to install closed
booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls within adult-oriented establishments for the
purpose of viewing adult entertainment.
   (E)   On and after the effective date of this chapter, the operator of each
adult-oriented establishment shall be responsible for and shall provide that
any room or other area used for the purpose of viewing adult entertainment
shall be well lighted and readily accessible at all times and shall be
continuously open to view in its entirety. The premises shall be equipped with
overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to
which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one
footcandle as measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator
and its agents to endure that the illumination described above is maintained at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
   (F)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
or as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to supervise the employee’s
conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such act or omission in the
same manner as if the operator committed the act or caused the omission.
   (G)   An operator shall be responsible for the conduct of all employees
while on the licensed premises, and any act or omission of any employee
constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the
act or emission of the operator for purposes of determining whether the
operator shall be subject to penalties imposed by this chapter.
   (H)   All adult-oriented establishments shall be open to inspection at all
reasonable times by inspectors or such other persons as the town meeting may
designate.
   (I)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted that is less than
500 feet from an area zoned residential.
   (J)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted that is less than
3,000 feet from an existing adult-oriented establishment.
   (K)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted that is less than
2,000 feet from a public park, preexisting school, including a licensed daycare
(whether public or private) or place of worship meaning to include parish
houses and convents.
   (L)   The provisions of divisions (I), (J) and (K) above shall not be deemed
to prohibit any use preexisting the enactment of this chapter. Any preexisting
use which shall be discontinued for a period of 30 days shall thereafter
conform to divisions (I), (J) and (K) above.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the Town Clerk. Seven copies of the application shall
be filed with, and dated by, the Town Clerk, Copies of the application shall be
distributed promptly, by the Town Clerk, to the Town Police Department, the
First Selectman, the Building Official, the Director of Health, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Separate permits
from these and other agencies may be required in addition to the license.)
   (B)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
Town Clerk. An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners or
limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all officers or directors of a
corporate applicant, and all stockholders holding more than 5% of the stock of
a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business, shall furnish the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address, including all aliases;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past ten years;
      (4)   The applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
      (5)   The businesses, occupations or employment of the applicant for ten
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, town, city or state under an adult-oriented establishment license or
similar business license; whether the applicant has ever had such license
revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade
name under which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or
revocation;
      (7)   All criminal statutes, whether federal or state, or town ordinance
violation convictions, forfeiture of bond and pleading of nolo contendre on all
charges, except minor traffic violations;
      (8)   Fingerprints and two portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches of the applicant;
      (9)   The address of the adult oriented establishment to be operated by
the applicant; and
      (10)   If the applicant is a corporation, the applicant shall specify the
name of the corporation, the date and state of the incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent, and the name and address of all shareholders
owning more than 5% of the stock in said corporation and all officers and
directors of the corporation.
   (C)   Within 75 days of receiving an application for a license, the Town
Clerk shall notify the applicant whether the application is granted or denied.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall grant the application upon written
certification from the First Selectman, Salem Police Department, the Building
Official, the Director of Health and the Zoning Enforcement Officer that all
applicable requirements have been met and upon the following circumstances:
         (a)   The required fees have been paid;
         (b)   The applicant conforms in all respects to the provisions of this
chapter;
         (c)   The applicant has not made a material misinterpretation of the
facts in the application; and
         (d)   That neither the applicant, if an individual, nor any person
financially interested, if a corporation, or any of the partners, including
limited partners, nor the holder of any profit interest, nor the manager or
other person principally in charge of the operation of the proposed business
has been convicted of, pleaded nolo contendre or guilty to any felony or to a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
         (e)   The applicant has not had a license, similar to the one issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, issued by another local authority
suspended or revoked for cause within the five-year period immediately
preceding the date of the filing of the application;
         (f)   The proposed business complies with all applicable regulations
of the town Planning and Zoning Commission; and
         (g)   The applicant, manager or other person principally in charge of
the operation of the business is at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall deny the application if all of the
requirements set forth in divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(g) above have not been
met.
   (E)   Whenever an application is denied, the Town Clerk shall advise the
applicant, in writing of the reasons for such action. If the applicant requests
a hearing within ten days of receipt of the notification of denial, a public
hearing shall be held within 30 days thereafter before the Board of Selectmen,
as hereinafter provided.
   (F)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application, or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination regarding said
application, or his or her refusal to submit to cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   To receive a license to operate an adult-oriented establishment, an
applicant must meet the following standards:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual:
         (a)   The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of or pleaded nolo
contendre to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five
years immediately preceding the date of the application; and
         (c)   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter within five years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under this chapter shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
this chapter shall have been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendre to a felony
or crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a
sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five years immediately preceding the
date of the application.
         (c)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
this chapter shall have been found to have previously violated this chapter
within five years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or any other type
of organization where two or more persons have a financial interest:
         (a)   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of or pleaded
nolo contendre to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude,
prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction
within five years immediately preceding the date of the application; and
         (c)   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this chapter within five years immediately preceding the date
of the application.
   (B)   No license shall be issued unless the Police Department has
investigated the applicants’ qualifications to be licensed. The results of that
investigation shall be filed in writing with the Town Clerk no later than 60
days after the date of the application.
§ 112.07 FEES.
   A license fee of $250 shall be submitted with the completed application for
a license. If the application is denied, one-half of the fee shall be returned.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.08 RENEWAL OF LICENSE PERMIT.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate at the
expiration of one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and
must be renewed before operation is allowed in the following year. Any operator
desiring to renew a license shall make application to the Town Clerk. The
application for renewal shall be filed not later than 60 days before the
license expires. The application for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with
and dated by the Town Clerk. A copy of the application for renewal shall be
distributed promptly by the Town Clerk to the Town Police Department and to the
operator. The application for renewal shall be upon a form provided by the Town
Clerk and shall contain such information and data as is required for an
application for a new license.
   (B)   A license renewal fee of $250 shall be submitted with the application
for renewal. In addition to the renewal fee, a late penalty of $100 shall be
assessed against the applicant who files for a renewal less than 60 days before
the license expires. If the application is denied, one-half of the total fees
collected shall be returned.
   (C)   If the Town Police Department is aware of any information bearing on
the operator’s qualifications, that information shall be filed in writing with
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 112.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board of Selectmen shall revoke a license or permit for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given on
any application or material facts were omitted from any application;
      (2)   The operator or any employee of the operator violates any provision
of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the Board of Selectmen
pursuant to this chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first
offense by an operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Board shall find that
the operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not, by the exercise of due diligence, have had such actual or
constructive knowledge;
      (3)   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license or permit;
      (4)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid; or
      (5)   Any intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage is served or
consumed on the premises of the adult-oriented establishment.
   (B)   The Board of Selectmen, before revoking or suspending any license or
permit, shall give the operator at least ten days written notice of the charges
against him or her and the opportunity for a public hearing before the Board
within 30 days after receipt of the notice.
   (C)   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license shall
automatically and immediately revoke the license.
   (D)   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for one year from the date of revocation. No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult-oriented
establishment for six months from the date of revocation of the license.
   (E)   The Board of Selectmen shall give notice to the Town Clerk of any
revocations or suspensions.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[RESERVED]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
151.   BUILDING CODE; FEES
      
152.   FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
      
153.   CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
      
154.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
CHAPTER 150: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
150.01   General provisions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The house numbering system, as shown on a set of maps labeled as
“house numbering maps” and on file in the Office of the Assessor, is hereby
adopted as the house numbering system of the town.
   (B)   Furthermore, to ensure that the house numbering system of the town is
correct and understandable and there is no confusion in street and highway
names, the following streets and highways shall be officially recognized by the
names indicated herein:
      (1)   Route 82 will be known as East Haddam Road to the west of the Four-
Corners and as Norwich Road to the east of the Four Corners;
      (2)   Route 85 will be known as Hartford Road north of the Four Corners
and as New London Road to the south of the Four Corners; and
      (3)   Route 354 will be known as Old Colchester Road.
   (C)   Properties on all streets and highways within the town have been
numbered, regardless of whether or not they are on town accepted roads. This
has been done only for consistency and convenience in the numbering process and
shall not be interpreted as acceptance of any street or highway by the town,
nor as acknowledgment of any particular property as a building lot or
subdivision lot.
   (D)   The Assessor shall utilize the “house numbering maps” to assign
numbers to those buildings, parts of buildings and undeveloped parcels now in
existence and to buildings hereafter erected, and parcels hereafter created
which front on streets and highways in the town, and a record of those number
assignments shall be kept in the office of the Assessor. Notification of the
number assignment shall be made to all property owners or occupants.
   (E)   Each owner or occupant of a numbered building shall affix, in a
conspicuous place, either on the building or on a mailbox or other object on
the property, the number that will identify the address as assigned by the
house numbering system. The numbers must be visible and readable from the
street or highway and shall be no smaller than three inches if displayed on a
building or object set back behind the front building setback line.
   (F)   Each owner or occupant of a numbered building shall be required to
affix the assigned number within 90 days of the receipt of the notice of
assignment of the number. Failure to do so shall be considered a violation of
this section and punishable by §
150.99.
   (G)   Note: whenever a driveway leading to a house or building is off a
common driveway, the owner or occupant of the numbered house/building shall
affix and maintain, in a conspicuous place at the interconnection of the
individual driveway with the common driveway, the number that will identify the
address as that assigned by the house numbering system.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2008)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each owner or occupant of a numbered building shall be required to
affix the assigned number within 90 days of the receipt of the notice of
assignment of the number. Failure to do so shall be considered a violation of
this section and punishable by a fine of not less than $1, nor more than $20
per day for each offense.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2008)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE; FEES
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Building Code adopted
Planning and Zoning Commission; Fees
   
151.15   Purpose
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Fees for application review
   
151.18   Administration
   
151.19   Fees for inspections
   
151.20   Administration
   
151.21   Planning and Zoning Commission fees
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-252, as amended, and as it may in
the future be amended, a certain document, three copies of which have been on
file for over 30 days in the Office of the Town Clerk, being marked and
designated as State Basic Building Code, is hereby adopted as the Building Code
of the town, for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided,
and each and all regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
the State Basic Building Code are hereby referred to and adopted and made a
part hereof as it is previously set out in this section.
(Ord. passed 9-12-1970)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; FEES
§ 151.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a schedule of
reasonable fees for the processing of applications by the Town Planning and
Zoning Commission and the inspection of compliance with permits, as enabled by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1c. This subchapter is necessary as the town has seen many
land use applications which require a consultant’s review and inspection; such
review and inspection are necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety, welfare and such costs are currently borne by the town.
   (B)   This fee is in addition to fees required under other applicable town
regulations. Applications by the town are exempt from this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Salem Planning and Zoning Commission.
   CONSULTANT. May include, but not be limited to: Town Engineer,
Transportation Engineer, Radio-frequency Engineer, Landscape Architect,
Hydrologist, Geologist and the like. CONSULTANT does not include the Town
Planner, Zoning Enforcement Officer, Administrative Assistant, Sanitarian,
Building Inspector, Fire Marshal, Public Works Director or town legal counsel.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.17 FEES FOR APPLICATION REVIEW.
   By a two-thirds vote of the full Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Commission may require the applicant to bear the consultant costs for
applications for site plans (pursuant to § 11A of the town’s zoning
regulations), special exceptions (pursuant to § 11 of the town’s zoning
regulations), amendments to the zoning test, amendments to the zoning map,
subdivisions resulting in five or more additional building lots, and
resubdivisions resulting in five or more additional building lots.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The expenses shall be paid by the applicant on an actual and
reasonable cost basis.
   (B)   The fee shall be determined by the Commission and assessed to the
applicant after the administrative fees are paid.
   (C)   All such applications shall be accompanied by an agreement signed by
the applicant specifically agreeing to pay the aforesaid additional project
review fees as determined by the Commission. Such agreement shall state the
conditions imposed and the obligations of the applicant
   (D)   The applicant shall maintain on deposit with the Commission an amount
of money estimated to be sufficient to cover the said consultant expenses. The
Commission may revise such estimate from time-to-time, and thereupon require
additional sums to be deposited to cover such fees. Said agreement shall be
signed and initial estimated fees shall be deposited prior to the consultant’s
review of the application.
   (E)   No application will be considered complete until such fee or fees have
been paid and such agreement has been submitted.
   (F)   Fees shall be payable in cash, check or money order. Checks or money
orders shall be made payable to the town.
   (G)   Fees shall be placed in a fund named for the application.
   (H)   Upon completion of the consultant’s review and final action on the
application by the Commission, the Commission or its staff shall determine the
costs incurred for the consultant review and refund the excess funds to the
applicant.
   (I)   If an applicant withdraws an application, the applicant shall be
responsible for the consultant review fees incurred up until the date when the
applicant has submitted a written notice of withdrawal to the Commission’s
administrative assistant.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.19 FEES FOR INSPECTIONS.
   Upon approval of an application for site plan (pursuant to § 11A of the
town’s zoning regulations), special exception (pursuant to § 11 of the town’s
zoning regulations), subdivisions resulting in five or more additional building
lots, and resubdivisions resulting in five or more additional building lots, by
two-thirds vote of the entire Commission, the Commission may require the
permittee to pay the costs associated with monitoring compliance with permit
conditions or Commission orders.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.20 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The expenses shall be paid by the permittee on an actual and
reasonable cost basis.
   (B)   The fee shall be determined by the Commission and included in an
agreement signed hy the permittee specifically agreeing to pay the aforesaid
fees. Such agreement shall state the conditions imposed and the obligations of
the permittee. Said agreement shall be signed and such estimated fees shall be
deposited prior to the beginning of construction.
   (C)   The permittee shall maintain on deposit with the Commission an amount
of money estimated to be sufficient to cover the said consultant expenses. The
Commission may revise such estimate from time-to-time, and thereupon require
additional sums to be deposited to cover such fees. Fees shall be payable in
cash, check or money order. Checks or money orders shall be made payable to the
town.
   (D)   Fees shall be placed in a fund named for the project.
   (E)   Upon completion of project construction, the Commission or its staff
shall determine the costs incurred for the consultant review and refund the
excess funds to the permittee.
   (F)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the permittee has
reimbursed said expenses.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2002)
§ 151.21 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1c, the town
adopts the following zoning and subdivision fees:
Application for zoning permit                           
Main building or primary structure                     $50
Accessory structure over 100 square feet               $25
Accessory structure under 100 square feet              No fee
Application for a home occupation                      $50
Application for excavation permit renewal              $200 (new, as of April
                                                       16, 2009)
Application for special exception                      $200
Application for amendment to zoning regulations or     $200
zoning map
Application for construction of a campground (this fee $500 or $5 per proposed
is in addition to that required for a special          site, whichever is
exception)                                             greater
Application for annual campground permit               $100 or $1 per site,
                                                       whichever is greater
Application for permit for sign                        No fee
Public hearing, if required                            $250
                                                       $60 ($50 of this deposit
Deposit for sign under § 13.8 of the town zoning      will be refunded if the
regulations                                            sign is returned within
                                                       seven days after action
                                                       by the Commission)
Application involving site plan review (no additional
fee is required for site plan review when a site plan   
is submitted in connection with an application for a
special exception or zone change)
Where an engineer’s seal is not required on the site $150
plan
Where an engineer’s seal is required on the site plan$250
Application for subdivision                            $200 + $100 per proposed
                                                       lot
                                                       $200 + $100 per proposed
                                                       lot (the fee will be
Application lot resubdivision                          based on the number of
                                                       new lots resulting from
                                                       the resubdivision)
If an applicant cannot submit a digital form map for review by the Commission,
there is an additional fee of $250 per lot for review.
 
   (B)   Any person making an original application for any approval required by
the zoning or subdivision regulations shall pay a fee in accordance Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 22a-27j, in addition to any other fee, which may be required. (June 28,
2006)
   (C)   Fees for applications, certifications, permits, and other zoning
related procedures shall be paid by cash, certified check, personal check or
money order made payable to the town.
   (D)   Fees shall be payable at the time an application is submitted, except
as otherwise provided.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   General provisions
   
152.03   Mobile homes
   
152.04   Requirements
   
152.05   Variances
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies, permit requirements
and application procedures related to land use and development in special flood
hazard areas of the town consistent with the regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program, as published in the Federal Register, Volume 41, No. 207,
October 26, 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., which will make the town
eligible for participation in that program. Said special flood hazard areas
shall be those areas designated by the federal Insurance Administrator and
shown as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) for the town, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk and with the Building Official.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1982)
§ 152.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town meeting hereby authorizes the First Selectman to apply on
behalf of the town to the federal Emergency Management Agency, Division of
Insurance and Mitigation, for participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program, and designates the Building Official as the official responsible for
maintaining information and records relating to the town’s participation in
this program.
   (B)   All official boards and commissions of the town shall take into
account flood and flood related erosion hazards to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions relating to land management and use.
   (C)   The Building official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood (100-year flood) elevation data from federal, state or other
sources. Such information shall be made available to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (D)   Before issuing a permit for new construction within A Zones on the
FHBM or FIRM, the Building Official shall review the permit application to
determine that all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile homes) shall:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Before issuing a permit for new construction or substantial
improvement of residential structures within A Zones on the FHBM or FIRM, the
Building Official shall require that the lowest floor (including the basement)
be elevated to or above the base flood level.
   (F)   (1)   Before issuing a permit for new construction or substantial
improvement of nonresidential structures within A Zones on the FHBM or FIRM,
the Building Official shall require that the structure either:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor area (including the basement) elevated to
or above the base flood level; or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Where such flood proofing is utilized, a registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the flood-proofing methods are
adequate to withstand loads and forces associated with the base flood and a
record of such certification shall be maintained by the Building Official.
   (G)   The Building Official shall:
      (1)   Obtain the elevation of all new or substantially improved
structures within A Zones on the FHBM or FIRM and whether or not such
structures contain a basement;
      (2)   Obtain, if the structure has been flood-proofed, the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level to which the structure was flood-proofed; and
      (3)   Maintain a public record of all such information.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1982)
§ 152.03 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   The Building Official shall require all mobile homes placed within
Zone A on the FHBM or FIRM be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Specific requirements shall be that:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations and
mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring systems be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1982)
§ 152.04 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Building Official shall require that an evacuation plan indicating
alternate vehicular access and escape routes be filed with appropriate Disaster
Preparedness Authorities for mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions
located within Zone A on FHBM or FIRM.
   (B)   The Building Official shall, prior to issuing any permit for
construction or other development located in Zone A on the FHBM or FIRM require
evidence from the applicant for such permit that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334 (Clean Water Act).
(Ord. passed 7-7-1982)
§ 152.05 VARIANCES.
   Variances to the provisions of this chapter may be granted by majority vote
of the Board of Selectmen in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Variances shall be issued only upon:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall be issued only upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   The Board shall notify the applicant, in writing, over the signature
of the Building Official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
   (D)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance; and
      (2)   Report such variance issued in its annual report to the Federal
Insurance Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1982)
CHAPTER 153: CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Procedure
   
153.03   Standards
   
153.04   Waivers
   
153.05   Modifications
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the construction of
residential driveways in the town in order to provide safe and structurally
adequate access to properties from public roads. Driveways that access state
roads must also meet state requirements. All commercial driveways must comply
with the applicable current zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 153.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No person shall construct a new residential driveway or relocate an
existing residential driveway leading onto a public road in the town without
first obtaining a written driveway construction permit from the Director of
Public Works or the First Selectman of the town.
   (B)   No building permit(s) for projects that include construction of
residential driveways shall be issued until a town driveway construction permit
has been issued.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy for projects that include construction of
residential driveways shall be issued until the Director of Public Works or the
First Selectman of the town issues a final approval of the driveway
installation or a bond has been posted in accordance with division (E) below.
   (D)   Application for a driveway construction permit shall be made to the
Director of Public Works or the First Selectman and shall include a sketch of
the lot and a plan showing the proposed location and dimensions of the
residential driveway, public road right-of-way and existing pavement
boundaries. In order to adequately evaluate the safety of the proposed
residential driveway, other information may be required as stipulated by the
Director of Public Works or the First Selectman. The application shall include
a fee of $25.
   (E)   During the months where required materials cannot be procured
(generally November through March), a $2,000 cash or passbook bond shall be
posted until the Director of Public Works or the First Selectman of the town
issues a final approval of the residential driveway installation.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 153.03 STANDARDS.
   (A)   In no case shall a residential driveway grade exceed 5% of the first
30 feet extending in from a public road. No residential driveway shall have a
grade greater than 15% at any point.
   (B)   Residential driveways shall be paved for a minimum of 15 feet from the
edge of a public road into the property, in accordance with “typical treatment
of driveway” detail drawings.
   (C)   All residential driveways shall be a minimum of 24 feet wide at the
edge of the public road and shall taper to a minimum of 12 feet wide at 22 feet
into the property, which shall be cleared of all obstructions for an additional
three feet on either side. Residential driveway width shall not be less than 12
feet throughout its length. Other configurations may be required by the
Director of Public Works or the First Selectman to address special sites.
   (D)   Residential driveways shall intersect public roads at an angle of
approximately 90 degrees, but not less than 60 degrees.
   (E)   Residential driveways shall be accessible to emergency vehicles.
Obstructions shall be cleared throughout the width and length of the driveway
to a height of 12 feet. At no point in a driveway shall the radius of curvature
be less than 50 feet.
   (F)   As a minimum, paved residential driveway cross-sections shall consist
of a compacted six-inch base of bank run gravel that meets all requirements of
CONNDOT gradation A and a two-inch finish course of broken or crushed stone, or
equal.
   (G)   All residential driveways that include sections with grades of 10% or
greater, and all sections adjacent to these sections with grades of 5% or
greater, shall consist of a compacted six-inch base of bank run gravel that
meets all requirements of CONNDOT gradation A, and a two-inch finish course of
class 2 bituminous concrete.
   (H)   A clear line-of-sight distance of 200 feet measured five feet back
from the edge of road pavement shall be provided at the intersection of a
residential driveway and the public road. Greater distances may be required by
the Director of Public Works or the First Selectman.
   (I)   Driveways shall be designed, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works or the First Selectman, to ensure that water does not flow from
the driveway onto the road pavement or from the road pavement onto the
driveway.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 153.04 WAIVERS.
   Applications to waive any of the provisions of this chapter must be
submitted in writing to the First Selectman, who may waive provisions at his or
her sole discretion.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
§ 153.05 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Board of Selectmen may make necessary modifications to the standards in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2002)
CHAPTER 154: TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
Section
Trailer Camps
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Permit required
   
154.04   Regulations
Single-Parked Trailers Located Off the Public Highway
   
154.15   Purpose
   
154.16   Definition
   
154.17   Parking of single trailers
   
154.18   Taxation of single trailers
   
154.19   Exemptions
   
154.20   Inspections
   
154.21   Regulations and appeals
   
154.22   Electricity
   
154.23   Fire protection
   
154.24   Fuel
   
154.25   Permits not transferable
 
   
154.99   Penalty
TRAILER CAMPS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure the protection of the health,
peace and welfare of the residents of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMITTEE. Any person, firm or corporation receiving a permit to conduct or
maintain a trailer camp.
   SEASONAL TRAILER CAMP. A trailer camp used only between the months of May to
October, inclusive.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle, whether designated a trailer coach, mobile home,
camper or otherwise, and whether or not placed on a foundation, which is used
or so constructed as to permit its use as sleeping or living quarters, which is
or may be mounted on wheels, and which is or may be propelled either by its own
power or by another power-driven vehicle to which it may be attached.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any lot or parcel of land which is used or permitted to be
used for the parking of two or more trailers occupied by separate family units.
   TRAILER PLOT. The section of ground in a trailer camp used or designated for
use as a location for a single automobile and trailer, or a single house car,
camper, or tent.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   On or after the effective date of this amendment, no person, firm or
corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate any trailer camp
within the limits of the town, except a seasonal trailer camp, nor establish,
maintain, conduct or operate a seasonal trailer camp without having obtained a
permit therefor from the Town Clerk.
   (A)   Application for such permit shall be made in writing to the Town
Clerk. The applicant shall file with his or her application:
      (1)   A complete plan, drawn to scale, showing the proposed camp, the
location of the trailer plots, and such other details as are hereinafter more
fully described;
      (2)   Proof of ownership of the premises or of a lease or written
permission from the owner thereof;
      (3)   Written approval from the Town Health Officer with a specific
finding that the plan for the proposed trailer camp is in accord with the
sanitary requirements of the State Public Health Code and this chapter, and
written approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission of the town, with a
specific finding that the plan for the proposed trailer camp is in accord with
the plan of development and the zoning regulations of the town and with this
subchapter; and
      (4)   A permit bond of $1,000 to guarantee compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   The permit obtained from the Town Clerk shall be for the calendar
year, or any part thereof.
   (C)   The permittee shall pay the Town Clerk the following amount of money
as the annual fee, or the proper proportionate part thereof.
      (1)   If the area on which such business is to be operated is 15,000
square feet or less: $25.
      (2)   For each additional 5,000 square feet or part thereof on which such
business is to be operated: $3. But the permit fee for a seasonal trailer camp
shall not exceed $50.
      (3)   One dollar of the permit fee is to be retained by the Town Clerk,
balance to be paid to the Town Treasurer.
   (D)   Posting of permit: the permit, which shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, shall at all times be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises at which any trailer camp is operated.
   (E)   Limitations: no trailer camp shall be permitted if any part of the
premises intended for use as part of such camp is within 100 yards of any year-
round residence, church, school or public library.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Trailer plots.
      (1)   Not more than one trailer or tent shall be placed on any trailer
plot.
      (2)   No trailer or tent shall be placed;
         (a)   Within 100 feet from the traveled portion of any public highway;
         (b)   On any plot of less than 2,000 square feet; or
         (c)   Within 15 feet of any other trailer or tent or any building.
      (3)   No cottage, cabin, seasonal dwelling or other buildings shall be
placed on a trailer plot, or elsewhere in a trailer camp, except in conformity
with the zoning regulations, but any such cottage, cabin, seasonal dwelling or
other building in a trailer camp on or before May 25, 1968, shall not be
considered a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Roadways. All trailer plots shall be grouped in blocks abutting roads
and driveways of not less than 15 feet in width, giving easy access to and from
such plots. Such roadways or driveways shall be properly maintained by
permittees so as to prevent ruts, depressions and flying dust.
   (C)   Water supply and sanitation. The provisions of the Public Health Code
of the state concerning sanitation of campgrounds, including trailer camps,
mobile home parks, motels and overnight cabins, are declared applicable to any
trailer park operated under this subchapter and are hereby incorporated in this
part of this subchapter.
   (D)   Grading and drainage. All trailer plots and abutting roads or
driveways shall be kept free from heavy or dense growth of brush or weeds from
any poisonous or obnoxious weeds, and so graded as to insure rapid drainage.
   (E)   Registration of guests. 
      (1)   There shall be kept by the permittee a book register upon which the
owner or person in control of the automobile and trailer or house car, upon
arrival, shall register his or her name and address and all persons using same,
the date of arrival, the state license plate number of the automobile and
trailer, or if a house car, the state license plate number thereon, together
with the name of the state issuing such license.
      (2)   The permittee shall be responsible for entering the departure of
trailers and guests in the book register and for keeping such register in a
legible form so as to indicate at all times the trailer count and population at
the camp to the satisfaction of state and local police and health departments.
Said register shall be available at all times for inspection by representatives
of such police and health departments.
   (F)   Limitation of trailers and population. The permittee shall not admit
any trailer or tent in excess of the number of trailer plots, or any trailer or
tent designed for or used by more than eight persons without written approval
of the Town Health Officer.
   (G)   Taxation. Each person licensed to operate a trailer camp shall,
between October 1 and October 15 of each year, file with the Assessors of the
town a statement, under oath, giving the license number of each trailer and
each motor vehicle parked and registered at said trailer camp on October 1 of
that year. No permittee shall be deemed to be operating other than a seasonal
trailer park because of the parking of trailers between the months of November
to April inclusive, provided such trailers remain unoccupied and unused during
such period.
   (H)   Posting of ordinance. Each permittee operating a trailer camp shall
cause a legible copy of this subchapter to be posted and kept posted at all
times in a conspicuous place at such trailer camp.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969) Penalty, see §
154.99
SINGLE-PARKED TRAILERS LOCATED OFF THE PUBLIC HIGHWAY
§ 154.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the health, sanitation and
welfare of the town, to reduce fire hazards, to mitigate congestion and to
promote equitable distribution of the burden of supporting town services as
between occupants of trailers and of permanent dwellings.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.16 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, the word TRAILER shall be deemed to be any
vehicle, whether designated a trailer coach, mobile home, camper or otherwise,
and whether or not placed on a foundation which is used, or so constructed as
to permit its use, as sleeping or living quarters, which is or may be mounted
on wheels and which is or may be propelled either by its own power or by
another power-driven vehicle to which it may be attached.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.17 PARKING OF SINGLE TRAILERS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this amendment, no person, firm or
corporation shall park a trailer, or permit a trailer to be parked, or occupy a
parked trailer, off the public highways within the limits of the town without
having obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Such trailer permit shall be issued in the name of the town by the
Enforcement Officer of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   The owner of the trailer and the owner of the land on which the
trailer is to be parked, if different therefrom, shall apply to the Enforcement
Officer of the Planning and Zoning Commission for such trailer permit through a
written application.
      (1)   Such application shall be accepted by the Enforcement Officer only
when made in conjunction, with an application for a zoning building permit for
a detached dwelling, in accordance with the zoning regulations of the Planning
and Zoning Commission or when made for a renewal of a trailer permit granted
prior to the effective date of this amendment.
      (2)   Such application shall set forth the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner of the trailer and the owner of
the land on which the trailer is to be parked;
         (b)   Name and address of the proposed occupant of the trailer, if not
the applicant, and his or her relationship to the applicant or applicants;
         (c)   Description of the trailer including make, model, serial number
and motor vehicle registration number, if any;
         (d)   Description of the plot of land upon which the applicant intends
to park such trailer including the former owner of the land, its location and
area;
         (e)   The water supply provided or to be provided;
         (f)   The sewage disposal system provided or to be provided; and
         (g)   The number of persons to use the water supply and sewage
disposal system.
   (D)   Such application shall be filed in the Office of the Town Clerk for
processing together with a deposit of the permit fee, which, upon the
disapproval of the application shall be returned to the applicant.
   (E)   The Enforcement Officer shall approve or disapprove such application
within 30 days after the date of filing.
   (F)   No application shall be approved and no trailer permit issued unless
all requirements for a zoning building permit are met with respect to the
trailer.
   (G)   If the Enforcement Officer shall approve the application, he or she
shall issue a permit.
   (H)   The fee for any trailer permit or the renewal thereof, including the
renewal of a permit issued prior to the effective date of this amendment, shall
be $200, but an owner-occupant of a trailer who has paid property taxes to the
town during the 12 months next before his or her application for a permit or
renewal thereof under this section, or who is entitled to a tax exemption,
shall have the fee remitted to the extent of such taxes paid or exempted, and
the Selectmen may abate the fee of any person whose taxes they may, by law,
abate.
   (I)   All trailer permits issued prior to the effective date of this
amendment shall expire as of such date. Renewal of such permits shall be valid
for one year and they may be renewed from year to year in case of continuous
ownership of a trailer or replacement thereof, provided no permit shall be
renewed for a trailer whose enclosed living space has been added to or expanded
during the previous year.
   (J)   All trailer permits issued subsequent to the effective date of this
amendment shall expire one year after date of issue. Renewal of such permits,
whether upon their expiration or subsequently, shall be valid for only six
months and only one such renewal shall be granted except that upon completion,
to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer, of 60% of the dwelling for
which a building permit was issued in conjunction with the trailer permit, one
additional renewal for six months without additional fee shall be granted.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.18 TAXATION OF SINGLE TRAILERS.
   Any single trailer licensed for parking as provided in §
154.17 shall be assessed for taxation purposes as part of the real estate of
the plot owner.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a trailer used as an
office at the site of a building under construction, nor to an unoccupied
trailer, nor to a trailer parked in a licensed seasonal trailer camp, nor to a
trailer parked by a transient visitor of a resident of the town for not more
than 30 days, nor to an owner-occupant of a trailer parked in the town on or
before December 1, 1959, whether occupying the trailer in its original or a
subsequent trailer space, or occupying a replacement thereof on the original
trailer space, if such replacement is made by the owner-occupant within 30 days
of sale.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.20 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Officer or his or her deputy and the Fire Marshal or his or her
deputy shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or
public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this subchapter or of regulations promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.21 REGULATIONS AND APPEALS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby authorized to incorporate any
of the provisions of this subchapter in the zoning regulations and to adopt
such additional zoning regulations as may be necessary and proper for their
enforcement; provided that, such additional regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this subchapter. Appeals from any action or
failure to act on the part of the Enforcement Officer or of the Planning and
Zoning Commission may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals in the same
manner as appeals under the zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.22 ELECTRICITY.
   If a trailer uses electricity, any permit is granted on the condition that
the installation shall comply with the National Electrical Code of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters and that all electrical outlets outside the trailer
shall be weatherproof.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Every single trailer space shall be kept free of flammable material at all
times and shall be equipped with one or more portable fire extinguishers
maintained in good repair for use in fighting fires. Fires shall be made in
stoves or other equipment designated for that purpose and in incinerators when
otherwise permissible.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 FUEL.
   Liquefied petroleum gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at any
trailer space unless the containers are properly connected by copper or other
suitable metallic tubing. Liquefied petroleum cylinders shall be securely
fastened in place and adequately protected from the weather. No cylinder
containing liquefied petroleum gas shall be located in any trailer nor within
five feet of the door thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable. Every person holding such
permit shall, within five days of selling, transferring or otherwise disposing
of a trailer, file a written notice thereof with the Town Clerk designating the
name and address of the transferee of the trailer.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate, or take part or assist in, any violation
of any provision of §§
154.01 through
154.04 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $100 for each offense,
and each day such violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
154.15 through
154.25 or any provision thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $5, and each day such violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such hereunder. In
addition to such penalties, the Enforcement Officer, with the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be authorized to revoke or suspend any
license whenever the licensee has violated any provision of §§
154.15 through
154.25 or the regulations thereunder. The Enforcement Officer, with the
approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission, may on such conditions as may
be just, restore any license when the violation is remedied and compliance
resumed.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1969)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   LAND USE
TABLE I: LAND USE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        1-11-1984   Discontinues rights to Governor’s Road
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Connecticut General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CONNECTICUT GENERAL STATUTES
Conn. Gen. Stat. Reference Code Section
Conn. Gen. Stat. Reference Code Section
1-200 et seq.              32.09
4-124i through 4-124p      32.03
4-124-1(b)                 32.03
7-131a                     32.09
7-136                      32.11
7-136(a)                   32.11
7-148                      32.08
7-148(c)(10)(A)            10.99
7-151a                     32.10
7-157(b)                   31.01
7-301                      31.03
7-340a                     32.06
8-1b                       32.12
8-1c                       151.15,
                           151.21
8-18 to 8-30f              32.12
9-167a                     30.03,
                           32.06
9-185                      30.02
11-20 to 11-37             91.01
12-48                      33.32
12-81c                     33.17
12-81w                     31.04
12-85                      33.15,
                           33.31
12-129n                    33.30
12-170aa                   33.32
12-170aa(b)(1)             33.34
13a-142e                   32.04
14-1(58)                   72.02
14-1(70)                   72.02
14-1(106)                  72.02
14-107                     72.02,
                           72.04
14-150a                    92.01
14-297(4)                  72.02
15-136                     93.02
                           111.03,
19a-1 to 19a-134           111.06,
                           111.07
19a-200                    111.02
19a-296                    32.05
22-332                     90.02
22a-27j                    151.21
22a-207 to 22a-256ee       51.01
22a-241b                   50.05
22a-336 et seq.            32.10
22a-451(a)                 31.05
28-1(a)                    31.05
28-7                       32.07
29-252                     151.01
Chapter 126                32.12
Chapter 190                91.01
Chapter 446d               51.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-16-1948   92.02,
                     92.99
-        7-21-1949   93.0
-        3-2-1957    30.01
-        9-14-1957   110.01
-        10-24-1959  32.12
-        1-7-1961    32.02
-        3-3-1962    91.01
                     154.01 through
-        5-3-1969    154.04,
                     154.99
                     154.15 through
-        5-3-1969    154.25,
                     154.99
-        9-12-1970   151.01
-        3-13-1971   32.01
-        10-2-1972   32.10
-        12-27-1972  32.12
-        8-29-1973   93.02,
                     93.99
-        1-28-1976   32.06
-        1-12-1977   32.12
-        3-12-1980   32.05
-        3-12-1980   32.07
-        3-12-1980   70.01,
                     70.99
-        3-12-1980   92.01
-        7-7-1982    152.01 through
                     152.05
-        1-11-1984   TSO, Table I
-        1-11-1984   90.02,
                     90.99
                     94.01 through
-        1-11-1984   94.09,
                     Appendix A
                     111.01 through
-        1-11-1984   111.14,
                     111.99
                     51.01 through
-        12-19-1984  51.09,
                     51.99
-        7-24-1985   30.02
-        5-7-1986    32.11
-        6-24-1987   32.10
-        12-12-1990  32.08
-        3-4-1992    32.09
-        8-19-1992   32.03
-        10-14-1992  31.03
-        10-14-1992  31.05
-        9-21-1994   30.04
-        9-21-1994   31.01
-        9-21-1994   50.01 through
                     50.06
-        9-21-1994   71.01,
                     71.99
-        9-21-1994   94.03
                     112.01 through
-        2-29-1996   112.05,
                     112.07 through
                     112.09
-        5-8-1996    30.03
-        5-4-1998    90.01
-        9-16-1998   33.01
-        9-27-2000   32.04
-        5-1-2002    151.15 through
                     151.21
-        9-18-2002   94.04,
                     94.06
-        9-18-2002   153.01 through
                     153.05
-        7-12-2007   30.05
-        2-14-2008   150.01,
                     150.99
-        10-1-2008   33.30 through
                     33.35
-        4-16-2009   151.21
-        8-4-2009    31.20 through
                     31.33
-        9-30-2010   31.02
-        11-17-2011  72.01 through
                     72.06
-        9-3-2014    33.15 through
                     33.19
-        7-19-2017   31.04
                    
 
