CITY OF WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT
CODE OF ORDINANCES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a4f1263a25bd2fbb8ca63bf61bac3bf6090acad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 31, 2023
 
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT
Paul K. Pernerewski, Jr.
Mayor
Michael J. Dalton
City Clerk
Angela R. Juliani
Corporation Counsel
CHARTER
Editor's note:
   The Charter of the City of Waterbury is not set out in this code. Copies of
the Charter are available for inspection at Office of the City Clerk. The
Charter is, however, adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out
in full.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   CITY STANDARDS
         
12.   CIVIL ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Continuation of existing law; ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Waterbury
shall be designated as the Code of Waterbury and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town and City of
Waterbury, Connecticut.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      CONN. GEN. STAT. or GENERAL STATUTES. The revision of 1958 of the General
Statutes of the State of Connecticut and all amendments thereto.
      COUNTY. New Haven County, Connecticut.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, with right of survivorship, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or
joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street, usually lying on either side
thereof, between the curb and the adjacent property line, intended for the use
of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Connecticut.
      STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other public
thoroughfares in the city and means all that part thereof from the property
line of the premises abutting thereon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, mean any person who
occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN. The Town and City of Waterbury, Connecticut.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD .
(1967 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING LAW; ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are the same as
those of the ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code,
shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(1967 Code, § 1-3)
   (B)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Aldermen shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-340) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-19
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1967 and subsequently amended, the 1967
code section number shall be indicated in the history by "(1967 Code,
§      )."
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code, or in any other ordinance, rule or regulation
promulgated by any officer or agency of the city under authority vested in him
or it by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or
the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to
be unlawful, and no specific penalty, including a referral to community court,
is provided therefor either by this code or state law, the violation of any
provision of this code, or any other ordinance, rule or regulation shall be
punished by a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation of the city continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8) (Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum statutory penalty for ordinance violations, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-148(c)(10)(A)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The seal of the city shall be as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a4f1263a25bd2fbb8ca63bf61bac3bf6090acad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
(1967 Code, § 1-9)
CHAPTER 12: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
12.01   Citations and appeal authorized
   
12.02   Citation appeal procedure
   
12.03   Motor vehicle registration
§ 12.01 CITATION AND APPEAL AUTHORIZED.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(10), the city may enforce violations
of the City of Waterbury Zoning Regulations and this code of ordinances by the
issuance of a citation. Each citation shall be issued by a police officer or
designated municipal employee who shall issue a written warning providing
notice of the specific violation before issuing the citation. Such citation may
be appealed through the citation appeal procedure established in §
12.02.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015; Ord. passed 8-16-2021)
§ 12.02 CITATION APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicability. Unless otherwise expressly provided within this code,
this section shall apply upon the issuance of a citation for violation of any
provision of this code or the City of Waterbury Zoning Regulations.
   (B)   Appointment of citation hearing officers. The Mayor shall appoint one
or more citation hearing officers, other than police officers or employees or
other persons who issue citations, to conduct hearings authorized by this
section.
   (C)   Notice of violation. Within 12 months from the expiration of the
period for the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees for
citations issued under any provision of this code or zoning regulations adopted
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148, the city shall send notice to the person
cited. The notice shall inform the person cited:
      (1)   Of the allegations against him, and the amount of the fines,
penalties, costs or fees due;
      (2)   That he may contest his liability before a citation hearing officer
by delivering in person or by mail written notice within ten days of the date
thereof;
      (3)   That if he does not demand such a hearing, an assessment and
judgment shall be entered against him; and
      (4)   That the judgment may issue without further notice.
   (D)   Admission of liability. If the person or entity who is sent notice
pursuant to division (C) of this section wishes to admit liability for any
alleged violation, he may, without requesting a hearing, pay the full amount of
the fines, penalties, costs or fees admitted to in person or by mail to an
official designated by the city. Such payment shall be inadmissible in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of the person making
the payment. Any person who does not deliver or mail written demand for a
hearing within ten days of the date of the first notice provided for in
division (C) above shall be deemed to have admitted liability, and the
designated municipal official shall certify the person or entity’s failure to
respond to the citation hearing officer. The citation hearing officer shall
thereupon enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees as set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, and shall follow the procedures set forth in division (G)
of this section.
   (E)   Right to hearing; notice; timing of hearing. Any person who requests a
hearing shall be given written notice of the date, time and place for the
hearing. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days
from the date of the mailing of notice, provided the citation hearing officer
shall grant upon good cause shown any reasonable request by any interested
party for postponement or continuance.
   (F)   Hearing procedure. An original or certified copy of the initial notice
of violation issued by the issuing official or police officer shall be filed
and retained by the municipality, and shall be deemed to be a business record
and evidence of the facts contained therein. The presence of the issuing
official or police officer shall be required at the hearing if such person so
requests. A person wishing to contest his liability shall appear at the hearing
and may present evidence in his behalf. A designated municipal official, other
than the hearing officer, may present evidence on behalf of the municipality.
If such person fails to appear, the hearing officer may enter an assessment by
default against him upon a finding of proper notice and liability under the
applicable statutes or ordinances. The citation hearing officer may accept from
such person copies of police reports, investigatory and citation reports, and
other official documents by mail and may determine thereby that the appearance
of such person is unnecessary. The citation hearing officer shall conduct the
hearing in the order and form and with such methods of proof as he deems fair
and appropriate. The rules regarding the admissibility of evidence shall not be
strictly applied, but all testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
The citation hearing officer shall announce his decision at the end of the
hearing. If the citation hearing officer determines that the person is not
liable, he shall dismiss the matter and enter his determination in writing
accordingly. If the citation hearing officer determines that the person is
liable for the violation, he shall forthwith enter and assess the fines,
penalties, costs or fees against such person as set forth in the schedule of
fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (G)   Notice of assessment; filing in Superior Court; effect. If such
assessment is not paid on the date of its entry, the citation hearing officer
shall send by first class mail a notice of the assessment to the person found
liable and shall file, not less than 30 days or more than 12 months after such
mailing, a certified copy of the notice of assessment with the clerk of the
Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury together with an entry
fee of $8. The certified copy of the notice of assessment shall constitute a
record of assessment. Within such 12 month period, assessments against the same
person may be accrued and filed as one record of assessment. The clerk shall
enter judgment, in the amount of such record of assessment and court costs of
$8, against such person in favor of the municipality. Notwithstanding any
provisions of the Conn. Gen. Stat., the hearing officer’s assessment, when
entered as a judgment, shall have the effect of a civil money judgment and a
levy of execution on such judgment may issue without further notice to such
person.
   (H)   Right to judicial review. A person against whom an assessment has been
entered pursuant to this section is entitled to judicial review by way of
appeal. An appeal shall be instituted within 30 days of the mailing of notice
of such assessment by filing a petition to reopen assessment, together with an
entry fee in an amount equal to the entry fee for a small claims case, at the
Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury, which shall entitle such
person to a hearing in accordance with the rules of the judges of the Superior
Court.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015; Ord. passed 8-16-2021)
§ 12.03 MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   Any person who violates Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-12(a) shall be subject to a
civil fine of $250. Such fine shall be suspended for any first time violator
who presents proof of registration for such motor vehicle subsequent to the
violation but prior to the imposition of a fine.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2021)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER CITY ENTITIES
         
32.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
         
33.   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
34.   CITY POLICY
         
35.   PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
         
36.   RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
         
37.   HUMAN RESOURCES, MERIT SELECTION AND CIVIL SERVICE
         
38.   CENTRALIZED PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
         
39.   ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
         
40.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
         
41.   BUDGET DELIBERATIONS OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Oath of office
   
30.02   When reports due after referral
   
30.03   Municipal employees' right to join union
   
30.04   Grievances
   
30.05   Certain salary charges not to be paid
   
30.06   Marking vehicles and equipment
   
30.07   Appointment of constables
   
30.08   Residence requirements for employees of unclassified service
Conflicts of Interest
   
30.20   Interest in contracts, transactions and the like to be reported
   
30.21   Interested party prohibited from voting, participating
   
30.22   Violations and penalties
Charter reference:
   Board of Aldermen to investigate departments, officers and employees, see
Charter § 3A-1(a)
   Civil service, see Charter § 6B-4
   Elections, see Charter § 2B
   Mayor, see Charter Ch. 4
   Offices and officers generally, see Charter §§ 2A-2, 2A-3, 2B-2, 2B-3, 3A-2,
6A-3 and 11E-1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Each member of the Board of Aldermen and every officer of the city or
of any board thereof shall, before entering upon the duties of their several
offices, make oath before some competent authority in the form following:
"You                          , having been chosen                    of the
City of Waterbury, do solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Connecticut so long as
you continue a citizen thereof; that you are not subject to any of the
disqualifications from holding said office enumerated in the Charter of the
city, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of said office to the
best of your skill and ability. So help you God."
(1967 Code, § 2-1)
   (B)   Each member of the Police Department of the City of Waterbury shall,
before entering upon the duties of his office, make oath before some competent
authority in the form following:
      “I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and the State of Connecticut; that I will abide by and enforce the law
without prejudice or regard for personal feelings or benefit; and that I will
conduct myself in accordance with the Waterbury Police Department Code of
Conduct and general orders and will maintain the highest level of integrity in
both my professional and personal life and will never act in a manner which
brings discredit to me or the Waterbury Police Department.”
   (C)   A certificate of the oath required by division (A) above under the
hand of the authority administering it shall be lodged and kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk and recorded in the city records.
(1967 Code, § 2-2) (Ord. passed 3-15-2004)
Charter reference:
   Oath of office, see Charter § 2B-3
Statutory reference:
   Forms of oaths, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-25
   Oaths of Assessors, Board of Assessment Appeals and Tax Collectors, see
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-105
§ 30.02 WHEN REPORTS DUE AFTER REFERRAL.
   All petitions, resolutions or other matters referred by the Board of
Aldermen to any of the standing boards of commissioners, or any committees,
shall be reported back to the Board of Aldermen within 30 days from the date on
which they are so referred.
(1967 Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.03 MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES' RIGHT TO JOIN UNION.
   (A)   All municipal employees shall have the right to form or join
organizations of their own choosing, for the purpose of their mutual aid and
benefit.
(1967 Code, § 2-4)
   (B)   No city official or his representative, and no city board or member
thereof, shall interfere with, restrain or coerce municipal employees in the
exercise of the rights guaranteed in division (A) above. No city official or
his representative, and no city board or member thereof, shall contribute
financial support to any organization.
(1967 Code, § 2-5)
   (C)   No employee shall be punished, disciplined or discriminated against,
nor shall his status, position, salary advancement or any other rights be
affected, in any way, by reason of his membership in any organization or his
lawful activities therein.
(1967 Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.04 GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   All departmental administrative heads shall formulate and establish in
their respective departments or agencies, effective machinery whereby
grievances, complaints, problems or suggestions may be presented by the
organizations or their duly authorized representatives in accordance with civil
service regulations.
(1967 Code, § 2-7)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the right to intervene in any dispute between any
employee organization and any department of the city if he deems it desirable
or necessary in the interest of the city.
(1967 Code, § 2-8)
§ 30.05 CERTAIN SALARY CHARGES NOT TO BE PAID.
   No amount shall be paid chargeable to the regular salary appropriation of
any department or officer of the city which will render the remaining balance
of the regular salary appropriation insufficient for the remainder of any
fiscal year on a pro rata basis.
(1967 Code, § 2-9)
Charter reference:
   Salaries for certain officers, see Charter § 3A-2
§ 30.06 MARKING VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All city owned trucks and passenger cars, except those used by the
detective department and regular fire fighting apparatus, shall be marked as
follows:
      "City of Waterbury" in letters at least two inches in height, and
directly under, the name of the department using the same in letters at least
one inch in height, and directly under the name of the department a number to
be supplied by the Director of Finance at least two inches in height. All
markings shall be painted with either red or yellow paint and shall be placed
on the outside of the front doors of the equipment.
   (B)   All other equipment such as compressors, steam shovels, snow removers,
tractors, tool boxes and the like shall be marked in same form as to name,
department, number and color of paint. The position of placing the marking
shall be in the most conspicuous place on the equipment.
(1967 Code, § 2-10)
   (C)   The marking of vehicles and equipment shall be exposed to public view
at all times and never covered or concealed to hide the identity of the
property.
(1967 Code, § 2-11)
   (D)   Violation of any part of this section by any official or employee
shall subject him to dismissal in accordance with civil service regulations.
(1967 Code, § 2-12)
§ 30.07 APPOINTMENT OF CONSTABLES.
   Constables shall be nominated and appointed in the city in the following
manner: During the period between October 1 and December 1 of each odd numbered
year, the town committee of each major political party in the town, as defined
in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-190, shall nominate at a meeting called for that
purpose, by a majority vote of those members of the town committee present and
voting, four enrolled electors for the office of constable. The secretary of
any town committee shall forthwith certify the names of the nominees to the
Mayor by certified mail, return receipt requested. If, for any reason, the town
committee of any major political party shall fail to nominate four nominees for
the office of constable, as herein provided, prior to the December 1 date, then
the town chairperson of any major political party shall forward and certify to
the Mayor within the first five days of December the names of four enrolled
electors of that party as the nominees of that party for the office of
constable. Any certification of nominees by the town chairperson shall be
mailed to the Mayor by certified mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt
of this certification from the secretary of the town committee or from the town
chairperson, as aforesaid, the Mayor shall, between December 6 and 15 of the
same year, make the appointments, pursuant to the provisions of P.A. 73-655, by
written notification to the City Clerk and to each of the nominees.
(1967 Code, § 2-12.1) (Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 30.08 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (A) Any person hired, subsequent to January 1, 2003, by the city to the
positions of Corporation Counsel or Chief of Staff to the Mayor must become a
bona fide resident of the city within six months of the date he begins working
for the city and shall remain a bona fide resident during the entire term of
his employment.
   (B)   A BONA FIDE RESIDENT for the purpose of this section, is a person
having permanent domicile within the city, which domicile has not been adopted
with the intention of again taking up or claiming a previous residence acquired
outside of the city limits.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to make certain that the
persons listed in division (A) above comply with this section.
      (2)   The hiring of any person covered in this section after January 1,
2003 who fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall be void and
the person shall be dismissed by the Mayor.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor shall keep records of the addresses of the newly hired
persons covered by this section.
      (2)   These records shall be open to inspection by the public.
(1967 Code, § 2-12.2) (Ord. passed 11-24-1975; Ord. passed 12-9-2002)
Charter reference:
   Classified and unclassified service, see Charter § 6B-4
Editor's note:
   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 10-155f supersede and negate any
provisions of §
30.08(C), as being applicable to Waterbury teachers.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 30.20 INTEREST IN CONTRACTS, TRANSACTIONS AND THE LIKE TO BE REPORTED.
   Any member or employee of any municipal board or agency and any official,
officer or employee of the city who has a financial interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract, transaction or decision of any board, agency,
department or commission, to which the city is a party and which is not an
interest which is shared in common by the public as a whole, shall disclose
that interest to the board or agency or to the Board of Aldermen who shall
record the disclosure upon the official record of its meetings.
(1967 Code, § 2-70) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971)
Cross-reference:
   For Charter provisions as to conflict of interest, see Charter § 6B-3
§ 30.21 INTERESTED PARTY PROHIBITED FROM VOTING, PARTICIPATING.
   Any member or employee of any municipal board or agency and any official,
officer or employee of the city who has a financial interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract, transaction or decision of any board, agency,
department or commission, to which the city is a party and which is not an
interest which is shared in common by the public as a whole, shall refrain from
voting upon, participating in or awarding the contract, transaction or decision
in his capacity as a member or employee of any municipal board or agency, or in
his capacity as an official, officer or employee of the city.
(1967 Code, § 2-71) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971)
§ 30.22 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of this subchapter by any member or employee of any municipal
board or agency or by any official, officer or employee of the city shall be
grounds for his removal. Violation of this subchapter with the knowledge,
express or implied, of any person or corporation participating in such
contract, transaction or decision shall render the same voidable by the Board
of Aldermen.
(1967 Code, § 2-72) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER CITY ENTITIES
Section
Advisory Boards and Commissions
   
31.001   Human Services Commission
   
31.002   Arts and Tourism Commission
   
31.003   Environmental Control Commission
   
31.004   Human Rights Commission
   
31.005   Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission
   
31.006   Litter Control and Beautification Commission
   
31.007   Waterbury Development Agency
   
31.008   Board of Directors of the Waterbury Housing Assistance Program, Inc.
   
31.009   Freedom of Information Advisory Board
   
31.010   Fair Rent Commission
Public Health
   
31.020   Board of Commissioners of Public Health
   
31.021   Membership
   
31.022   Organization of Board of Commissioners of Public Health
   
31.023   Powers
Board of Police Commissioners
   
31.040   Board of Police Commissioners
   
31.041   Membership
   
31.042   Organization of Board of Police Commissioners
   
31.043   Powers
Board of Fire Commissioners
   
31.060   Board of Fire Commissioners
   
31.061   Membership
   
31.062   Organization of Board of Fire Commissioners
   
31.063   Powers
Board of Park Commissioners
   
31.080   Board of Park Commissioners
   
31.081   Membership
   
31.082   Organization of Board of Park Commissioners
   
31.083   Powers
City Plan Commission
   
31.100   City Plan Commission
   
31.101   Membership
   
31.102   Organization of City Plan Commission
   
31.103   Powers
Zoning Commission
   
31.120   Zoning Commission
   
31.121   Membership
   
31.122   Organization of Zoning Commission
   
31.123   Duties of Zoning Commission
Board of Commissioners of Public Works
   
31.140   Board of Commissioners of Public Works
   
31.141   Membership
   
31.142   Organization of the Board of Commissioners of Public Works
   
31.143   Duties of Board of Commissioners of Public Works
Office of Housing and Neighborhood Development
   
31.160   Housing and Neighborhood Development Board
   
31.161   Membership
   
31.162   Organization of Housing and Neighborhood Development Board
   
31.163   Powers and duties of Housing Board
   
31.164   Office of Housing and Neighborhood Development
   
31.165   Powers and duties of the Office
   
31.166   Director
Board of Assessment Appeals
   
31.180   Board of Assessment Appeals
   
31.181   Membership
   
31.182   Powers and duties
Retirement Board
   
31.200   Retirement Board
Building Code Board of Appeals
   
31.215   Building Code Board of Appeals
   
31.216   Membership
   
31.217   Powers and duties
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
31.230   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
31.231   Membership
   
31.232   Powers and duties
Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments
   
31.235   Creation of Naugatuck Valley Regional Council of Governments
   
31.236   Transitional provision; certification by the Secretary of the Office
of Policy and Management; transitional Executive Committee and transitional
period
   
31.237   Membership in the Naugatuck Valley Regional Council of Governments
   
31.238   Powers and duties of the Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments
   
31.239   Representative to the Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments
   
31.240   The Council of Governments of the Central Naugatuck Valley; successor
association
Economic Development; Revitalization
   
31.250   Reserved
   
31.251   Regional Economic Development Commission
   
31.252   Walnut-Orange-Walsh Neighborhood Revitalization Zone
Waterbury Development Corporation
   
31.265   Board of Directors; members; composition; appointment and term
   
31.266   Bylaws
   
31.267   Chief executive officer
   
31.268   Conduct of business
   
31.269   Designations of authority
   
31.270   Termination of authority granted by prior designations
Municipal and Regional Development Projects
   
31.280   Preamble
   
31.281   Appointment
Changes in Meeting Schedules
   
31.285   Vote to change date or time of regular meetings or appointive boards
and commissions
   
31.286   Procedures for changing dates and times of regular meetings of
appointive boards and commissions
Board of Aldermen
   
31.290   Voting districts for election to Board of Aldermen
Department of Engineering
   
31.300   Department of Engineering
   
31.301   Powers and duties
   
31.302   City Engineer
Cross-reference:
   Buildings, see
Ch. 150
   Enterprise zone, see
Ch. 152
   Housing Code, see
Ch. 154
   Inland wetlands and watercourses, see
Ch. 155
   Pension and retirement system, see
Ch. 35
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 158
   Zoning, see
Ch. 159
ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.001 HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Human Services Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Human Services Commission shall consist of seven
members, no more than four of whom shall be members of the same political
party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen, for a term
corresponding to the member's immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Human Services Commission. During July 2004, and
January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Commission shall select from
among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the second Tuesday
of the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall determine the areas of need within the city
for persons with disabilities and shall make recommendations to the Board of
Aldermen and the Mayor for the purpose of correcting deficiencies in the city
which prevent persons with disabilities from functioning fully as citizens of
this community and shall join with others to create conditions under which all
persons with disabilities can:
         (a)   Experience presence and participation in their community;
         (b)   Maximize opportunities to make choices in the pursuit of a
personal future; and
         (c)   Enjoy good relationships with all members of the community with
the proper respect and dignity.
      (2)   The Commission shall study the conditions and needs of elderly
persons in the community, in relation to housing, economics, employment,
health, recreational needs and other matters. It shall analyze the services for
the aged provided in the community, both by public and private agencies, and
shall make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding the development
of such programs and the integration of the same with the services available by
the state.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.002 ARTS AND TOURISM COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be an Arts and Tourism Commission.
   (A)   Membership; recommendations. The Arts and Tourism Commission shall
consist of seven members, no more than four of whom shall be members of the
same political party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen,
for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Arts and Tourism Commission. During July 2004, and
January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Commission shall select from
among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the second Wednesday
of the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Duties of the Commission. The Commission shall have the powers,
purposes, responsibilities and duties to take the steps necessary or proper for
the encouragement of those activities which will enrich the cultural life of
the city and contribute to the advancement of the several arts and sciences,
including, but not limited to, the encouragement of the arts, the provision of
adequate facilities for their proper function, and the provision of financial
support of cultural activities within the community.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.003 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be an Environmental Control Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Environmental Control Commission shall consist of
seven members, no more than four of whom shall be members of the same political
party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen who shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term
as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years. The Aldermanic members shall be appointed as set forth above.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Environmental Control Commission. During July
2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Commission shall
select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the fourth Thursday
of the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Duties of the Commission. The Commission shall have the following
powers, purposes, responsibilities and duties:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor and the public on matters affecting preservation,
development and use of natural and man-made features and conditions of the city
insofar as the beauty, quality, ecologic integrity and other environmental
factors are concerned, and in the case of man's activities and developments,
with regard to any major threats posed to environmental quality, so as to
enhance the long range value of the environment to the people of the city;
      (2)   Develop and conduct a program of public information in the
community which shall be designed to foster increased understanding of the
nature of environmental problems and issues and support their solutions;
      (3)   Conduct studies, surveys and inventories of the natural and man-
made features within the city and other studies and surveys as may be necessary
to carry out the general purposes of the Commission;
      (4)   Advise on the use of all open places in public or private ownership
within the municipality, including, but not limited to, natural and artificial
landmarks, glacial and other geomorphic or physiographic features; streams and
their floodplains; swamps. Marshlands and other wetlands; unique communities;
scenic and other open areas of natural or ecological value; and of the
ownership, present use and proposed use of the open areas so as to provide a
base of information for recommendations by the Commission for their
preservation or use;
      (5)   Represent the city at such hearings as may involve the environment
of the city;
      (6)   Coordinate, assist and unify the efforts of private groups,
institutions, individuals and city agencies as they relate to the environment
of the city;
      (7)   Liaison and communicate with public and private agencies whose
programs and activities have an impact on the environment or which can be of
assistance to the Commission;
      (8)   Obtain and maintain maps, reports, books and other publications to
support the necessary research of the Commission;
      (9)   Apply for grants and gifts, devises, bequests of both real and
personal property on behalf of the city as may relate to the environment of the
city;
      (10)   Carry out such duties as may be assigned from time to time by the
Mayor;
      (11)   Utilize the services of volunteers and, within available
appropriations, make all necessary purchases;
      (12)   Educate the public as to the sources, types and measures of urban
pollution and correction thereof and other hazards to the urban environment;
      (13)   Submit an annual report to the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen not
later that February 15 of each year, concerning the activities and work of the
Commission and from time to time, submit such reports and recommendations as
may be necessary to fulfill the purposes of this part;
      (14)   Work with the appropriate agencies or departments of other
municipalities in the state for the purpose of mutual assistance or
coordination of educational activities;
      (15)   Adopt its own bylaws for the conduct of its business in accordance
with the foregoing; and
      (16)   All other rights, powers and interest necessary for the completion
of the Commission's duties.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.004 HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Human Rights Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Human Rights Commission shall consist of nine members,
no more than five of whom shall be members of the same political party. One
member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term as an
Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint four members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
four members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years. The Aldermanic members shall be appointed as set forth above.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Human Rights Commission. During July 2004, and
January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Commission shall select from
among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the first Wednesday
of the month at 6:30 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Five members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public; participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Powers. The powers of the Commission shall include:
      (1)   To implement the policy of §§
93.01 through
93.04 of this code, as amended from time to time, by receiving and
investigating complaints of discrimination, initiating its own investigations
of discrimination, mediating complaints, holding hearings, presenting findings
to the Mayor and/or government agencies as the state Commission on Human Rights
and Opportunities in accordance with the general statutes;
      (2)   To work cooperatively with federal, state and city agencies in
developing materials, workshops, public presentations and other educational
resources designed to eliminate prejudice, intolerance, bigotry and
discrimination, and to enlist the cooperation the various racial, religious and
ethnic groups, civic and community organizations and other groups to further
the intent of and purposes of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time;
      (3)   The Commission shall discuss human rights problem areas with the
Mayor and make recommendations necessary to protect the human rights of all
citizens and employees of the city;
      (4)   The Commission shall request of the Mayor, department heads and
Superintendent of Schools, such information and support as is reasonable so
that it may be properly informed;
      (5)   The Commission may review and comment on all matters pertaining to
the human rights of citizens. They may examine and scrutinize and comment on
department budgets including the School Department budget;
      (6)   The Commission shall, when appropriate, request the assistance of
the staff and commissions of the city engaged in related work;
      (7)   The Commission shall receive aid, advice and opinions from the
Corporation Counsel and the Legal Department. The Commission may be represented
in court by attorneys financed by the city in an amount not to exceed the line-
item budget;
      (8)   The Commission and the Mayor, together or separately, shall report
to the Board of Aldermen and the Board of Education in writing from time to
time, as to their work. These written reports may properly contain suggestions
and recommendations to further the aims of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time;
      (9)   The Commission may issue such publications and results of
investigations and research as in the Commission's judgment will tend to
promote good will and to minimize or eliminate discrimination;
      (10)   The Commission shall enlist the cooperation of racial, ethnic,
civic, fraternal, benevolent, private and public agencies, and labor
organizations, in eliminating discrimination and promoting better relations
between all sectors of the community by inter-group relationships;
      (11)   The Commission shall encourage community participation in policy
making relevant to housing, education, public safety, employment, community
development and all other areas that touch on the lives of citizens of the city
and institute and conduct educational programs to encourage equal rights and
opportunities to all persons, regardless of their race or political or
religious opinions or affiliations;
      (12)   The Commission may seek and accept grants, gifts or benefits to
help finance its activities; and
      (13)   The Commission may request and utilize the services, facilities
and support of all municipal departments and agencies, unless prohibited by
law.
   (F)   Exercise of authority. The Commission shall exercise its authority
through the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To receive and investigate complaints and to initiate its own
investigations of violations of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time. All complaints filed must be under oath;
      (2)   To attempt by mediation to resolve any violation or discrimination
complaint over which it has jurisdiction and to recommend to all appropriate
government agencies such actions as it feels will resolve any complaint;
      (3)   With respect to complaints not resolved by mediation, to hold
hearings in the course of investigations of unlawful violations with the power
to subpoena witnesses, compel attendance, to administer oaths, to serve written
interrogatories, take testimony of any person under oath, and require the
production of any evidence and/or answers relating to any matter in question or
under investigation before the Commission. At any hearing before the Commission
or any committee thereof, a witness shall have the right to be advised and
represented by counsel present during any hearing. All witnesses shall receive
reasonable written notice. The respondent in a complaint shall have the right
to testify and to present and cross-examine witnesses. These powers enumerated
in this division may be exercised only on a case-by-case basis by an
affirmative vote of five of the seven Commission members, and in compliance
with the general law stipulations; and
      (4)   After hearing, to make the following dispositions.
         (a)   If, upon all the evidence, the Commission shall find that a
respondent has not engaged in any unlawful practice or violation of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time, the Commission shall state its findings of
fact in writing and shall issue and cause to be served on the complainant an
order dismissing the complaint as to the respondent.
         (b)   If upon all the evidence, the Commission shall find that a
respondent has engaged in any unlawful practice in violation of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time, the Commission shall state its findings of
fact in writing and shall forthwith impose one or more of the following
actions:
            1.   Issue a cease and desist order if a finding is made that a
respondent, who has engaged in any unlawful practice in violation of §§
93.01 through
93.04, as amended from time to time, or in violation of a conciliation
agreement, is a city contractor or subcontractor performing under municipally
funded or assisted contracts, the Mayor shall cause the contract or
subcontracts to be immediately reviewed, and may suspend or revoke the
contract, or contracts, or otherwise employ all available means to bring the
contractor or subcontractor into immediate compliance; and/or
            2.   If a finding is made that a respondent, who has engaged in a
discriminatory practice or violation of conciliation agreement, is a licensee,
who has obtained a license to operate from the city or any agency thereof, the
Mayor shall cause the license to be immediately reviewed, and may suspend or
revoke the license, or otherwise employ all available means to bring the
licensee into immediate compliance.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by a finding of the Commission is entitled
to reconsideration upon written summary and transcripts by the full Commission.
Written request for a hearing must be filed within seven days of the
Commission's written report. Upon receipt of a request for reconsideration, the
Commission shall notify all interested parties who shall have seven days to
submit any documents, report or summary to the Commission. The full Commission
shall meet in executive session to review the complaint, summaries, written
reports, transcripts, documents or other material, within 60 days of the
receipt of the request for reconsideration. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Commission may appeal to the Connecticut Human Rights
Commission in accordance with the general statutes. If the respondent does not
comply with the order of the Commission, the Commission, after exhausting all
possible means, shall:
            1.   File a criminal complaint against the respondent in the
Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury or in the superior court
for the judicial district in which the respondent resides, seeking fines as set
forth for each violation in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code;
            2.   File a complaint against the respondent in superior court
seeking injunctive relief, including a temporary restraining order; or
            3.   File a complaint against the respondent in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction seeking the award to the complainant of damages,
expenses, punitive damages and other relief as appropriate.
         (d)   A certified copy of any report, finding or order of the
Commission may be admitted as evidence in any court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   The Commission may issue such publications and results of
investigations and research as in the Commission's judgment will tend to
promote good will and to minimize or eliminate discrimination.
   (G)   Appropriations. The Board of Aldermen may make appropriations to the
Commission to provide the staff, funds, equipment and accommodations necessary
for the Commission's work. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of
gifts, grants and benefits, shall be within the amounts so appropriated.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004; Ord. passed 12-6-2004; Ord. passed 3-9-2009; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013)
§ 31.005 INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSE COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be an Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission shall
consist of five members, no more than three of whom shall be members of the
same political party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen
appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term
as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint two members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
two members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration of
their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of four
years. The Aldermanic members shall be appointed as set forth above.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission. During
July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Commission
shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it may
desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Plan Office shall act as the
secretary and record keeper for the Commission and shall forward a copy of all
goings on of the Commission to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the first Wednesday
of the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Three members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than three members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Objectives and purposes. The objectives and purposes of the Commission
are those set forth in the general statutes, as well as those powers and duties
set forth in §
155.01 of this code.
   (F)   Successor in interest. The Commission, as reconstituted by this
chapter, shall replace the previously constituted Commission.
(1967 Code, §§ 20-12—20-14) (Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.006 LITTER CONTROL AND BEAUTIFICATION COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Litter Control and Beautification Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Litter Control and Beautification Commission shall
consist of seven members, no more than four of whom shall be members of the
same political party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen who
shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's
immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years. The Aldermanic member shall be appointed as set forth above.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Litter Control and Beautification Commission.
During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Commission shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers
as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the second Thursday
of the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order
regularly made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Duties. The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The Commission shall work in conjunction with liaisons representing
and appointed by the following city boards or departments: Board of
Commissioners of Public Works, Police Department, Board of Park Commissioners,
Board of Commissioners of Public Health, Street Department, Traffic Engineering
Department and the Board of Aldermen. In addition, the Greater Waterbury
Chamber of Commerce, the Neighborhood Council and the Community Court for the
Judicial District of Waterbury shall each be invited to provide a liaison to
the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall be responsible for coordinating litter and
graffiti prevention and control, including oversight and enforcement, as set
forth under the Littering and Graffiti Ordinances of this code and in
accordance with the general statutes. The Commission shall serve as the focal
point of all litter removal and other city beautification projects; ensure
recognition is given to individuals and organizations who perform outstanding
contributions toward city beautification; sponsor a city-wide anti-litter
education program; recommend changes to the city ordinances regarding litter
and graffiti prevention and control; maintain contact with civic groups and the
city administration regarding city beautification projects. In addition, the
Commission shall receive public input and complaints with respect to litter and
graffiti.
      (3)   The Commission shall work with city officials in order to formulate
enforcement measures, including, but not limited to, the issuance of citations
in accordance with the general statutes.
      (4)   The Commission may request and utilize the services, facilities and
support of all municipal departments, including Corporation Counsel, unless
prohibited by law.
   (F)   Appropriations. The Board of Aldermen may make appropriations to the
Commission to provide the staff, funds, equipment and accommodations necessary
for the Commission's work. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of
gifts, shall be within the amounts so appropriated.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.007 WATERBURY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Waterbury Development Agency.
   (A)   Membership. The Waterbury Development Agency shall consist of five
members, no more than three of whom shall be members of the same political
party. Each person appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint one member whose term shall expire on December 31, 2004, one
member whose term shall expire on December 31, 2005, one member whose term
shall expire on December 31, 2006, one member whose term shall expire on
December 31, 2007 and one member whose term shall expire on December 31, 2008.
At the expiration of their respective terms, their successors shall be
appointed for a term of five years. The Aldermanic members shall be appointed
as set forth above.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Development Agency. During July 2004, and January
of each year thereafter, the Agency shall select from among its members a
chair, vice-chair, and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a
secretary to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The
Secretary shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Agency shall meet on the third Thursday of
the month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Agency except pursuant to an order regularly
made at a meeting of the Agency.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Three members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than three members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the Connecticut Freedom of Information Act or
any successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly
scheduled public meeting the Agency shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for
public speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Agency shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for
the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Agency is designated:
      (1)   The economic development commission for the city, and as such shall
possess, utilize and discharge all powers and duties granted unto it in
accordance with the general statutes; and
      (2)   The redevelopment agency of the city in accordance with the general
statutes pursuant to, as amended from time to time, and as such shall possess,
utilize and discharge all powers and duties granted unto it, pursuant to the
general statutes.
   (F)   Successor in interest. The Waterbury Development Agency, as
reconstituted by this chapter:
      (1)   Shall replace the previously constituted WDA;
      (2)   Shall succeed to any and all right, title and interest, which the
previously constituted WDA may have in and to any contracts and/or property,
real or personal, tangible or intangible; and
      (3)   Shall further succeed to any and all liabilities which the
previously constituted WDA may possess, known or unknown, actual or contingent,
relative to the administration, supervision, implementation and/or control of
the city's Enterprise Zone.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.008 BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE WATERBURY HOUSING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM, INC.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city there
shall be a Board of Directors of the Waterbury Housing Assistance Program, Inc.
   (A)   Membership, appointments and term of office. Waterbury Housing
Assistance Program, Inc., is hereby designated to assume the duties and
responsibilities of the housing partnership. The Board of Directors of the
Waterbury Housing Assistance Program, Inc., shall consist of 14 members, no
more than eight of whom shall be members of the same political party. The Mayor
of the City of Waterbury shall serve as one of the 14 members and his term as a
member of such Board shall be coterminous with his term as Mayor. Any
individual appointed to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the
Waterbury Housing Assistance Program, Inc. prior to the adoption of this
section shall continue to serve in such capacity until his successor has been
appointed by the Mayor pursuant to this section.
      (1)   Appointments. The Mayor shall appoint the 13 remaining members of
the Board during the calendar year in which this section was first adopted and
in accordance with the requirements identified in divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(k) below.
         (a)   Aldermanic representatives. One member shall be a member of the
Board of Aldermen appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to said
member's immediate term as an Alderman.
         (b)   City Plan Commission. One member shall be a member of the City
Plan Commission of the City of Waterbury appointed by the Mayor for a term
corresponding to said member's immediate term on said commission.
         (c)   Zoning Commission. One member shall be a member of the Zoning
Commission of the City of Waterbury appointed by the Mayor for a term
corresponding to said member's immediate term on said commission.
         (d)   Inland Wetlands Commission. One member shall be a member of the
Inland Wetlands Commission of the City of Waterbury appointed by the Mayor for
a term corresponding to said member's immediate term on said commission.
         (e)   Waterbury Housing Authority. One member shall be a
representative of the Waterbury Housing Authority whose term shall expire on
December 31, 2009.
         (f)   Waterbury Development Corporation, or its successor
organization, acting as the city's community development agency. One member
shall be a representative of the Waterbury Development Corporation, acting in
the capacity of the city's community development agency, or a representative of
any successor organization acting in such capacity at the time of the
appointment made hereunder, whose term shall expire on December 31, 2010.
         (g)   Local business community. Two members shall be representatives
of the local business community, one whose term shall expire on December 31,
2009 and the other whose term shall expire on December 31,2010.
         (h)   Public interest groups. Two members shall be representatives of
the public interest groups, one whose term shall expire on December 31, 2009
and the other whose term shall expire on December 31, 2010.
         (i)   Local urban planning professional. One member shall be a local
urban planning professional whose term shall expire on December 31, 2009.
         (j)   Local land use professional. One member shall be a local land
use professional whose term shall expire on December 31, 2009.
         (k)   Local housing professional. One member shall be a local housing
professional whose term shall expire on December 31, 2009.
      (2)   Term of office. The term expiration dates identified in divisions
(A)(1)(e) through (A)(1)(k) above shall apply only to the terms of the
appointees appointed by the Mayor during the calendar year in which this
section was first adopted, thereafter, their successors shall serve terms of
four years each beginning on the day following the original expiration date
identified in divisions (A)(1)(e) through (A)(1)(k) above.
   (B)   Organization of the Board of Directors of the Waterbury Housing
Assistance Program, Inc. Prior to the year 2010, and during January of 2010,
and during January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Board shall
select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Board shall appoint a secretary
to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. Said secretary
shall forward copies of all goings on of said Board to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the fourth Wednesday of
the month, at 5:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly
made at a meeting of said Board.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Eight members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than eight members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the Connecticut Freedom of Information Act or
any successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly
scheduled public meeting the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for
public speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for
the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Board shall include
the following:
      (1)   To examine and identify housing needs and opportunities in the
community and to work with the community, the Department of Economic and
Community Development and other state agencies to solve housing problems faced
by the community and develop ways to increase the supply and availability of
affordable housing in the community;
      (2)   To explore the availability of any state, municipal or other land
that is suitable for the development of affordable housing in the community;
      (3)   To review applicable zoning regulations to determine whether such
regulations restrict the development of affordable housing in the community and
to identify any necessary changes to such regulations;
      (4)   To establish priorities and develop a long-range plan to meet
identified housing needs in the community consistent with regional housing
needs and to establish procedures for the development of a written proposal to
achieve such priorities in accordance with said plan;
      (5)   To start an activity, development or project designed to create
additional affordable housing;
      (6)   To serve as the city's reviewing and authorization board of all
housing projects utilizing or planning to utilize local, state, federal or
other funds which may, from time to time, become available for the purpose of
providing affordable housing. Such projects will be reviewed for compliance
with the municipal plan of development and its affordable housing component.
   (D)   Aldermanic approval required. No person shall have the right to expend
any public funds of the city in carrying out any activities hereunder without
the prior and specific approval by the Board of Aldermen nor shall any person
have the right to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise, without
the prior and specific approval of the Board of Aldermen.
   (E)   Successor in interest. The Board, as reconstituted by this chapter,
shall replace the previously constituted Board.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2009)
§ 31.009 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Freedom of Information Advisory Board.
   (A)   Membership. The Freedom of Information Advisory Board shall consist of
seven members, no more than four of whom shall be members of the same political
party. One member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen, for a term
corresponding to the member's immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Organization of the Freedom of Information Advisory Board. During July
2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the Board shall select
from among its members a chair and such other officers as it may desire.
      (1)   Secretary and record keeping. The Board shall appoint a secretary
to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The Secretary
shall forward copies of all goings on of the Board to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the third Thursday of the
month at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any
authority to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly
made at a meeting of the Commission.
      (4)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
      (6)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for
the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Freedom of Information Advisory Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
         (a)   To act as a liaison to the State Freedom of Information
Commission for educational purposes and the members of the Board shall keep
current of the requirements of the State Freedom of Information Act, as
interpreted by the State Freedom of Information Commission, and courts, and any
other laws, rulings and materials related to the Act;
         (b)   To provide information and education to municipal officials and
employees, and all other persons seeking information or education, concerning
the State Freedom of Information Act, its interpretation by the State Freedom
of Information Commission and courts, and any other laws, rulings and materials
related to the Act;
         (c)   To facilitate the dissemination to municipal officers and
employees, and all other persons, of any materials provided to the Board by the
State Freedom of Information Commission;
         (d)   To make recommendations to municipal officials concerning the
application and implementation of the State Freedom of Information Act;
         (e)   To provide interested persons with information concerning the
filing of complaints with the State Freedom of Information Commission; and
         (f)   To make recommendations concerning proposed changes to the
general statutes relating to freedom of information.
      (2)   In addition, the Freedom of Information Advisory Board may attempt
to facilitate the resolution of freedom of information disputes with agencies,
but shall not impede in any way a person's right to a speedy appeal to the
State Freedom of Information Commission or a speedy determination of an appeal
by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.010 FAIR RENT COMMISSION.
   In accordance with§ 7-148b Conn. Gen. Stat. and the provisions of § 6D-1 of
the charter of the city, there shall be a Fair Rent Commission.
   (A)   Membership. The Fair Rent Commission shall consist of five members, no
more than three of whom shall be members of the same political party. One
member shall be a member of the Board of Aldermen appointed by the Mayor for a
term corresponding to the member's immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. Within 60 days of the effective date of
this section, the Mayor shall appoint two members whose terms shall expire on
December 31, 2024, and two members whose terms shall expire on December 31,
2026. At the expiration of their respective terms, their successors shall be
appointed for a term of four years. The Aldermanic member shall be appointed as
set forth above.
   (C)   Chair. At its initial meeting, and January of each even-numbered year
thereafter, and at any other time at which a vacancy shall arise in the
position of Chair of the Commission, the Mayor shall appoint one member to
serve as the Chair of the Commission.
   (D)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as the
secretary and record keeper for the Commission.
   (E)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet not less than twice per
month pursuant to a schedule to be set by the Commission.
   (F)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order regularly made
at a meeting of the Commission.
   (G)   Quorum and voting requirements. Three members shall constitute a
quorum and a concurrent vote of no fewer than three members shall be necessary
for the transaction of business.
   (H)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public, and shall provide for public speaking.
   (I)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the foregoing.
   (J)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall perform the functions, and
shall have the powers and duties, set forth in the general statutes governing
fair rent commissions as those statutes may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2023)
PUBLIC HEALTH
§ 31.020 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-2 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Commissioners of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.021 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Commissioners of Public Health shall consist of seven members,
no more than four of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Requirements. No more than four members shall be physicians, dentists
or pharmacists licensed to practice in the state.
   (B)   Alderrnanic representative. One member shall be a member of the Board
of Aldermen, appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's
immediate term as an Alderman.
   (C)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (D)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.022 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board of Commissioners shall select from among its members a chair and such
other officers as it may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The Health Department shall act as the
secretary and record keeper for the Board and shall forward copies of all
goings on of the Board to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the first Thursday of the
month at 4:00 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.023 POWERS.
   The Board shall such powers as set forth in the general statutes and the
Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.040 BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-5 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Police Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.041 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall consist of seven members, no more
than four of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. One member shall be a member of the Board
of Aldermen, appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to said member's
immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.042 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it
may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as the
secretary and record keeper for the Board.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the second Tuesday of the
month at 5:30 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.043 POWERS.
   The Board shall such powers as set forth in the general statutes, the
Charter of the city and this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.060 BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-6 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Fire Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.061 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Fire Commissioners shall consist of seven members, no more than
four of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. One member shall be a member of the Board
of Aldermen, appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's
immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.062 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF FIRE COMMISSIONERS.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it
may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as the
secretary and record keeper for the Board.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the fourth Thursday of the
month at 5:30 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.063 POWERS.
   The Board shall such powers as set forth in the general statutes, the
Charter of the city and this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.080 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-3 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Park Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.081 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall consist of seven members, no more than
four of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. One member shall be a member of the Board
of Aldermen, appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's
immediate term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.082 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it
may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The Commission shall appoint a secretary
to be responsible for all correspondence and record keeping. The Secretary
shall forward copies of all goings on of the Commission to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the first Tuesday of the
month at 6:00 p.m. or such other day and time as the chair may determine, in
consultation with the City Clerk.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation.
      (1)   All meetings, except executive sessions, as defined in the State
Freedom of Information Act or any successor thereto, shall be public.
      (2)   At the start of each regularly scheduled public meeting the Board
shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public speaking, with a minimum of
three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004; Ord. passed 4-12-2005)
§ 31.083 POWERS.
   The Board shall such powers as set forth in the general statutes, the
Charter of the city and this code of ordinances, including, but not limited to,
Chapter 98.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
CITY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.100 CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-4 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a City Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.101 MEMBERSHIP.
   The City Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, constituted as
follows: A member of the Board of Aldermen, and six electors of the city, no
more than four of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. The member of the Board of Aldermen shall
be appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate
term as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.102 ORGANIZATION OF CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Commission shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers
as it may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Plan Department shall act as
secretary and record keeper for the Commission and shall forward copies of all
goings on of the Commission to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the second Wednesday of
the month at 5:30 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order regularly made
at a meeting of the Commission.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.103 POWERS.
   The Commission shall have all the powers and duties of a planning commission
as set forth in the state general statutes, as they may be amended from time to
time. The City Plan Commission shall also have all of the powers and duties
given to it under the Charter of the city, as it may be amended from time to
time, including, but not limited to, § 6C-4 thereof,
Chapter 158 of the code of ordinances, as well as those powers and duties of
the City Plan Commission set forth in the city's zoning regulations, as it may
be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, § 7.4 thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004; Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 31.120 ZONING COMMISSION.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-7 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Zoning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.121 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Zoning Commission shall consist of seven members, no more than four of
whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. A member of the Board of Aldermen shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term
as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.122 ORGANIZATION OF ZONING COMMISSION.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Commission shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers
as it may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as secretary
and record keeper for the Commission.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Commission shall meet on the fourth Wednesday of
the month at 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Commission except pursuant to an order regularly made
at a meeting of the Commission.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Commission shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Commission shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws
for the conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.123 DUTIES OF ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Zoning Commission of the City of Waterbury shall have all of the powers
and duties of a zoning commission as set forth in the state general statutes,
as they may be amended from time to time. The Zoning Commission shall also have
all of the powers and duties given to it under the Charter of the city, as it
may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, § 6C-
7 thereof, as well as those powers and duties of the Zoning Commission set
forth in the city's zoning regulations, as it may be amended from time to time,
including, but not limited to, § 7.3 thereof. In exercising the powers, the
Commission shall:
   (A)   Conduct public hearing(s) on all proposed zone changes pursuant to the
general statutes;
   (B)   Hear all requests for zone changes and shall have the power to amend
the zoning regulations of the city;
   (C)   Refer to the City Plan Commission all requests for zone changes for
its recommendation prior to the public hearing:
      (1)   Any action by the Commission, which concurs with the recommendation
of the City Plan Commission shall be by a simple majority of the entire
Commission;
      (2)   If the Commission approves the proposed change, which has been
disapproved by the City Plan Commission, then the approval shall require five
or more votes of the Zoning Commission; and
      (3)   If the City Plan Commission approves the proposed zone change and
if a protest is filed at the public hearing before the Commission that there is
opposition to the proposed zone change of 20% or more of the area lots included
in the zone change or of the lots within 500 feet in all directions of the
property included in the zone change, then the Commission shall not approve the
zone change, except by five or more votes.
   (D)   Transmit to the Board of Aldermen, for its knowledge and information,
a report of each petition granted or denied.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004; Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.140 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-9 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Commissioners of Public Works, which Board of
Commissioners of Public Works shall concurrently serve as members of the Water
Pollution Control Authority as set forth in § 52.35 of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.141 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Commissioners shall consist of seven members, no more than four
of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. A member of the Board of Aldermen shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term
as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.142 ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board of Commissioners shall select from among its members a chair and such
other officers as it may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as secretary
and record keeper for the Board.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the fourth Tuesday of the
month at 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation.
      (1)   All meetings, except executive sessions, as defined in the State
Freedom of Information Act or any successor thereto, shall be public.
      (2)   At the start of each regularly scheduled public meeting, the
Commissioners shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public speaking, with a
minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.143 DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To make such rules and regulations as shall be deemed necessary for
its government;
   (B)   To certify all bills and allowances and claims due to contractors of
public works;
   (C)   To have the care, management and administration of the water system,
water works, mains and pumps, pipes, reservoirs, dams, hydrants, public and
private, and all matters and things connected therewith and to manage, direct
and control the building, operating and repair of the water system and of all
additions thereto;
   (D)   To have the management, control and care of all streets, avenues,
highways, alleys, bridges and public grounds, other than parks and parkways, of
the city, and the opening, grading, improving, building, repairing, cleaning,
sprinkling and lighting of the same, and to prescribe the terms and manner of
opening and excavating the same for any purpose;
   (E)   To have charge of the construction, repair, cleaning and general care
of all sewers, drains, culverts, sluiceways, catch basins and manholes, of the
constructions, protection, repair, furnishing, cleaning, heating, lighting and
general care of all public buildings and structures, except such as are by
express terms under control of some other officer or department, and of making
and preserving all surveys, maps, plans, drawings and estimates relating to all
works under the charge of the department;
   (F)   To have the superintendence of all public lands, structures and works
within the city not above enumerated, except as may be otherwise expressly
provided;
   (G)   To regulate, control and direct the location, erection and removal of
poles in the streets for communication wires, electric lights and other
purposes;
   (H)   To fix the location and to control and direct the laying of street
railway tracks;
   (I)   (1)   To fix and regulate the place and manner of laying down and
taking up all pipes, conduits and things in, over or under the streets and
other public places in the city and to cause all orders of the Board of
Aldermen concerning any of the foregoing subjects to be executed; and
      (2)   All powers and duties conferred upon and vested in the selectmen of
towns by the general statutes relative to fences are conferred upon and vested
in the Board;
   (J)   Such other powers conferred by the code of ordinances, including, but
not limited to, Title V and
Chapter 99, of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
OFFICE OF HOUSING AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT
§ 31.160 HOUSING AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT BOARD.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Housing and Neighborhood Development Board, referred to
hereafter as the "Housing Board".
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.161 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall consist of seven members, no more than four of whom shall be
members of the same political party.
   (A)   Aldermanic representative. A member of the Board of Aldermen shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term corresponding to the member's immediate term
as an Alderman.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.162 ORGANIZATION OF HOUSING AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT BOARD.
   During July 2004, and January of each even-numbered year thereafter, the
Board shall select from among its members a chair and such other officers as it
may desire.
   (A)   Secretary and record keeping. The Office of Community Development
shall act as secretary and record keeper for the Board and shall forward copies
of all goings on of the Board to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Meeting schedule. The Board shall meet on the second Thursday of the
month at 5:30 p.m.
   (C)   Authority and actions of members. No member shall have any authority
to act on behalf of the Board except pursuant to an order regularly made at a
meeting of the Board.
   (D)   Quorum and voting requirements. Four members shall constitute a quorum
and a concurrent vote of no fewer than four members shall be necessary for the
transaction of business.
   (E)   Public meetings and public participation. All meetings, except
executive sessions, as defined in the State Freedom of Information Act or any
successor thereto, shall be public. At the start of each regularly scheduled
public meeting, the Board shall allot a minimum of 15 minutes for public
speaking, with a minimum of three minutes per speaker.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Board shall have the power to adopt its own bylaws for the
conduct of its business in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.163 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HOUSING BOARD.
   (A)   The Housing Board is designated as the city's Urban Homesteading
Agency and Housing Site Development Agency, both in accordance with the general
statutes and shall exercise all the powers and duties conferred by the general
statutes on such agencies.
   (B)   The Housing Board shall be empowered to act in accordance with the
general statutes and in conformity with the Charter of the city and this code
of ordinances. In addition to its powers and duties under the general statutes,
the Housing Board shall provide the following functions and perform the
following duties:
      (1)   To provide long-range planning in policy formulation and program
evaluation for the housing office;
      (2)   To review and comment to the Director on annual budget
recommendations prepared by office staff;
      (3)   To approve the acquisition of real property by eminent domain in
accordance with state and local law;
      (4)   To review, modify and approve all plans, including any amendments
thereto, required to be prepared and approved by the provisions of the general
statutes by the Housing Board when it serves as any of the agencies listed
above, and all other plans as may be referred for approval by the Director of
the Housing Office; and
      (5)   To file, in the month of February of each year, a report of its
activities of the preceding year with the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Successor in interest. The Waterbury Development Agency, as
reconstituted by this chapter:
      (1)   Shall succeed to any and all right, title and interest, which the
previously constituted OHND may have in and to any contracts and/or property,
real or personal, tangible or intangible; and
      (2)   Shall further succeed to any and all liabilities which the
previously constituted OHND may possess, known or unknown, actual or
contingent, relative to the operation as the Housing Site Development Agency
and the Community Development Agency of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.164 OFFICE OF HOUSING AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT.
   There is established the Office of Housing and Neighborhood Development,
hereafter referred to as the "Housing Office".
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.165 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE OFFICE.
   The Housing Office is authorized to engage in services related to the
conservation and production of housing, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Planning, financing, technical assistance and other assistance in site
assembly to promote the development of single-family, multi-family and elderly
housing in the city;
   (B)   Rehabilitation financing and technical assistance services to promote
conservation of the city's neighborhoods, housing stock and neighborhood
commercial districts;
   (C)   Planning, technical and financial assistance, training and information
services to build the capacity of neighborhood organizations to participate in
neighborhood revitalization activities; and
   (D)   Technical assistance and training programs to increase the
effectiveness of housing management.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.166 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Director of the Housing Office, who shall
serve at the Mayor's pleasure.
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for administration of the Housing
Office, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Personnel selection, supervision, management and development;
      (2)   Budget development and administration;
      (3)   Program planning, policy and execution;
      (4)   Oversight of office operations and procedures;
      (5)   Other related administrative and managerial functions;
      (6)   Staff support to the Housing and Neighborhood Development Board
established under this subchapter and any other city entities regarding housing
developments and grants; and
      (7)   All other powers and duties of housing office not expressly
required by the general statutes or ordinance to be exercised by the Housing
and Neighborhood Development Board established under this subchapter.
   (C)   The Director may appoint, with the approval of the Mayor, employees
and staff, hire consultants, and purchase supplies, services and construction
necessary for the discharge of the office's duties, within the limits of
available appropriations.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
BOARD OF ASSESSMENT APPEALS
§ 31.180 BOARD OF ASSESSMENT APPEALS.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-8 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Board of Assessment Appeals.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.181 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Assessment Appeals shall consist of three members, none of whom
shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint one member whose term shall expire on December 31, 2004, one
member whose term shall expire on December 31, 2005, and one member whose term
shall expire on December 31, 2006. At the expiration of their respective terms,
their successors shall be appointed for a term of four years.
   (B)   Additional appointments. Additional members may be appointed in any
assessment year, or any other time allowed by the general statutes.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as secretary
and record keeper for the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.182 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall meet and exercise its powers and duties, as set forth in the
applicable provisions of the general statutes specifying the powers and duties
of boards of assessment appeals as such laws may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
RETIREMENT BOARD
§ 31.200 RETIREMENT BOARD.
   In accordance with the provisions of the § 6C-10 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Retirement Board. The Board shall be constituted as recodified
in
Chapter 35 of this code.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.215 BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Building Code Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.216 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Building Code Board of Appeals shall consist of five members, no more
than three of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Requirements. The members shall meet the requirements set forth in the
general statutes.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint two members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2005, and
three members whose terms shall expire on December 31, 2007. At the expiration
of their respective terms, their successors shall be appointed for a term of
four years.
   (C)   No compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as secretary
and record keeper for the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.217 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall meet and exercise its powers and duties as set forth in the
general statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.230 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 6D-1 of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.231 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five members, no more than
three of whom shall be of the same political party, and three alternate
members, none of whom shall be members of the same political party.
   (A)   Requirements. The members shall meet the requirements set forth in the
general statutes.
   (B)   Appointments; term of office. No later than July 1, 2004, the Mayor
shall appoint two members and one alternate whose terms shall expire on
December 31, 2005, and three members and two alternate whose terms shall expire
on December 31, 2007. At the expiration of their respective terms, their
successors shall be appointed for a term of four years.
   (C)   Compensation. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for any necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties within the limitations of appropriations.
   (D)   Secretary and record keeping. The City Clerk shall act as secrets and
record keeper for the Board.
   (E)   Meetings. The Board shall meet on the third Wednesday of every month
at 6:30 p.m.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.232 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have all the powers and duties of a zoning board of appeals
as set forth in the state general statutes as they may be amended from time to
time. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall also have all of the powers and duties
given to it under the Charter of the city, as it may be amended from time to
time, as well as those powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals set
forth in the city's zoning regulations, as it may be amended from time to time,
including, but not limited to, § 7.2 thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004; Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
NAUGATUCK VALLEY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS
§ 31.235 CREATION OF NAUGATUCK VALLEY REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   The city hereby joins with such municipalities of the Naugatuck Valley
Planning Region, as designated by the Secretary of the Office of Policy and
Management of the State of Connecticut, to create a regional council of
governments to be known as the Naugatuck Valley Regional Council of Governments
by adopting the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 4-124i through 4-124p.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 31.236 TRANSITIONAL PROVISION; CERTIFICATION BY THE SECRETARY OF THE OFFICE
OF POLICY AND MANAGEMENT; TRANSITIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND TRANSITIONAL
PERIOD.
   (A)   Upon certification by the Secretary of said Office of Policy and
Management that at least 60% of the municipalities in the planning region have
adopted ordinances creating a regional council of government, as required by
the Connecticut General Statutes, the Naugatuck Valley Regional Council of
Governments shall be established.
   (B)   Upon such certification, the Transitional Period shall commence. Said
Transitional Period shall conclude on 31 December 2014 at 11:59:59 p.m. During
such period, the city shall participate on the Transitional Executive Committee
for the purposes set forth in the Connecticut General Statutes. The Mayor shall
be a member of the Transitional Executive Committee. In the absence of the
Mayor, the legislative body of the city shall appoint an elected official to
serve as a member. The Mayor may send a representative in his or her stead;
however, such representative shall not be a member of said executive committee.
   (C)   This section shall expire at the conclusion of the Transitional Period
and thereafter be void and of no force and effect.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 31.237 MEMBERSHIP IN THE NAUGATUCK VALLEY REGIONAL COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   On and after 1 January 2015, the city shall be a member of the Naugatuck
Valley Council of Governments.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 31.238 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE NAUGATUCK VALLEY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   The Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments shall have such powers,
purposes, rights, duties and responsibilities as shall be set forth in the
Connecticut General Statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 31.239 REPRESENTATIVE TO THE NAUGATUCK VALLEY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENT.
   The Mayor shall be the representative of the city to the council of
governments. In the absence of the Mayor, the legislative body of the city
shall appoint an elected official to serve as a member. The Mayor may send an
alternate in his or her stead; however, such alternate shall be entitled to
such rights as may be established by the council of governments. The city shall
be entitled to one vote in the affairs of the council of governments.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
§ 31.240 THE COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS OF THE CENTRAL NAUGATUCK VALLEY; SUCCESSOR
ASSOCIATION.
   The city shall remain a member of Council of Governments for the Central
Naugatuck Valley as it continues to operate and wind down as a council of
elected officials until December 31, 2014. The city shall also participate with
the current members of council of elected officials in an unincorporated
association of such municipalities in order to wind down the affairs and assets
of the Council of Governments of the Central Naugatuck Valley, that are either
not assigned to and/or integrated within the operations of Naugatuck Valley
Council of Governments.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2014)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; REVITALIZATION
§ 31.250 RESERVED.
§ 31.251 REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to the provisions of the general statutes, hereby
joins with the Town of Wolcott in the formation of a Regional Economic
Development Commission, whose area of jurisdiction shall be coterminous with
the area of this city and the area of the Town of Wolcott, and whose membership
shall be determined jointly by the Waterbury Economic Development Commission
and the Wolcott Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   The Regional Economic Development Commission shall have the same
duties and authorities, in respect to its area of jurisdiction, as a municipal
commission has in respect to the municipality. The city may annually
appropriate to the Commission a sum which, in addition to any amount
appropriated to its municipal commission, will not exceed one-twentieth of one
percent of its last completed grand list of taxable property.
   (C)   The members of the Regional Economic Development Commission from the
city shall receive no compensation for their services as such, but shall be
reimbursed for their necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 31.252 WALNUT-ORANGE-WALSH NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. In accordance with the general statutes, the city is desirous
of establishing neighborhood revitalization zones for the development by
neighborhood groups of a collaborative process for federal, state and local
governments to revitalize neighborhoods where there is a significant number of
deteriorated property and property that has been foreclosed, is abandoned,
blighted or is substandard or poses a hazard to public safety.
   (B)   Creation. There is created, in accordance with the general statutes,
the Walnut-Orange-Walsh Neighborhood Revitalization Zone Committee of the
Walnut-Orange-Walsh Neighborhood.
   (C)   Composition; membership.
      (1)   The membership of the Committee shall comply with the requirements
of the general statutes and the bylaws of the Walnut-Orange-Walsh
Revitalization Zone Committee as originally adopted, and as hereafter may be
properly amended.
      (2)   The following shall be members in accordance with the bylaws of the
Committee:
         (a)   The chairpersons and co-chairpersons of each issue group, chosen
pursuant to Article VI of the Committee's bylaws;
         (b)   A municipal official appointed by the Mayor to serve as a voting
member; and
         (c)   The remaining members shall be chosen by the Neighborhood
Revitalization Zone Committee pursuant to divisions (C)(3), (4) and (5) of this
section, after which the Neighborhood Revitalization Zone Committee shall have
no less that ten and no more than 40 members.
      (3)   The membership shall reflect the composition of the Walnut-Orange-
Walsh neighborhood and shall include, but not be limited to, tenants, property
owners, communications organizations and representatives of businesses located
in the neighborhood. A majority of the members shall be residents of the
neighborhood.
      (4)   Subject to the provisions of division (C)(2) above, the
Neighborhood Revitalization Zone Committee may add members or replace any
members who have resigned or been removed, so long as the membership continues
in conformity herewith. If some constituencies within the neighborhood are
initially inadequately represented on the Committee, the Committee shall make
affirmative efforts to recruit them onto the Committee.
      (5)   Committee members shall serve until the first Neighborhood
Revitalization Zone Committee meeting of each calendar year. At such meeting,
the Committee shall choose members for another one-year term. Committee members
may be re-elected to additional terms on the Committee.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Committee shall exercise, in accordance with
the general statutes, all of the powers and duties conferred on such
Neighborhood Revitalization Committee.
   (E)   Annual report. The Committee shall submit a report on implementation
of the Strategic Plan to the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen and the Secretary
of the Office of Policy and Management at intervals of six months in the first
year after adoption of this section and annually thereafter.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
WATERBURY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 31.265 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; MEMBERS; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   (A)   The WDC shall be under the control of a board of directors ("Board")
consisting of 23 members as follows: The Mayor of the City of Waterbury or his
designee; two Aldermen appointed by the President of the Board of Aldermen,
neither of whom shall be of the same political party; the Chairperson of the
Chamber of Commerce of Greater Waterbury or his designee; the President of the
Chamber of Commerce of Greater Waterbury or his designee; one member of New
Opportunities, Inc, ("NO, Inc.") appointed by NO, Inc.; two representatives of
the Waterbury business community appointed by the Mayor; four members of the
various neighborhood groups appointed by the Mayor, of the four available
appointments two shall be made from a list of four nominees, comprised of two
nominees for each of the two available appointments, submitted by the Waterbury
Neighborhood Council, the two remaining appointments, of the four available
appointments, shall be made from a list of nominees being comprised of names of
individuals who are members of a neighborhood group not belonging to the
Waterbury Neighborhood Council and whose name was included amongst at least two
names submitted by the neighborhood group of which they are a member; one
member of the Waterbury Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People (the "NAACP") nominated by the NAACP, by way of submission of
two names for such position, and appointed by the Mayor; one member of Main
Street Waterbury appointed by the Mayor by way of submission of two names for
such position; and nine members at large, four appointed by the Mayor and five
appointed by the Waterbury Chamber of Commerce, respectively.
   (B)   Board members must either reside in, directly or indirectly own
property in, be employed by or be a member of a board of directors of a company
with an office in, or possess other significant ties to, the City of Waterbury.
   (C)   The Mayor, the Chairperson of the Waterbury Chamber of Commerce and
the President of the Waterbury Chamber of Commerce shall each serve for as long
as they hold their respective positions. The aldermanic members shall serve for
a period consistent with an aldermanic term and, if re-elected, may be
reappointed or replaced by the President of the Board of Aldermen at the end of
such term in his discretion. All other Board members shall, commencing on
January 1, 2006, serve for a term of two years, subject to any removal
provisions as may be provided by any bylaws established in accordance herewith.
Initial appointments to the Board made upon passage of this section shall be
interim appointments, said interim terms to expire, in all cases, on December
31, 2005. Board members shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and have qualified.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled without undue delay in the
same manner and by the same appointing authority that made the original
appointment, to serve for the unexpired portion of the term. Should any such
appointing authority for any reason cease to exist, the Board, by a majority
vote of its entire membership, shall designate a similarly purposed or
otherwise relevant entity as a replacement appoinling authority. Any Board
member appointed by the defunct appointing authority shall complete his term on
the Board and any replacement appointing authority shall only appoint Board
members at the beginning of the new appointment cycle, unless a vacancy within
the purview of its appointing authority sooner occurs.
   (E)   Board members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed
for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
within the limitations of appropriations.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.266 BYLAWS.
   (A)   The WDC shall establish bylaws providing for the method of selecting
various officers of the Board deemed necessary and advisable and delineating
their individual powers and obligations. The bylaws shall address where and how
often the Board shall meet and any other appropriate matters allowed by law.
The bylaws shall specifically provide that the chairman shall have a vote on
all issues before the Board and may further vote a second time for purposes of
breaking a tie vote.
   (B)   The WDC bylaws shall furthur provide that, under appropriate
circumstances, the WDC shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify
its Board members, officers, employees and agents, from and against any and all
liabilities, expenses and other matters as are, without limitation, referred to
in, or covered by, the Connecticut Revised Nonstock Corporation Act, as it may
be amended, supplemented or replaced, from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.267 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   The WDC shall hire a Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO") who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board and who shall be the principal
administrative officer of the WDC. The CEO shall be responsible for the day-to-
day operation of the WDC and shall see that all actions of the Board are
carried into effect.
   (B)   The CEO shall be knowledgeable regarding municipal economic
development and housing matters and shall be hired upon specifications and
qualifications set by the Board.
   (C)   The CEO shall, subject to the by-laws of the WDC, hire employees,
staff and consultants, and purchase good and services and construction
necessary for the discharge of the duties of his office and the WDC as the CEO
deems necessary and/or advisable within the limits of any sums appropriated for
those purposes.
   (D)   The CEO shall report monthly to the Board on the conduct and
management of the affairs of the WDC and shall also perform such other duties
as are usual and customary to this office.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.268 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The WDC shall keep and maintain a regular place of business within the
city, which shall be open for business on a customary business schedule.
   (B)   The WDC shall, at all times, comply and comport itself in accordance
with all applicable laws and regulations, as such may be amended, supplemented
or replaced.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.269 DESIGNATIONS OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The WDC is hereby designated as the city's:
      (1)   Development Agency, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-188, in
addition to Naugatuck Valley Regional Development Corporation;
      (2)   Implementing Agency, pursuant to Conn Gen. Stat. § 32-224, in
addition to Naugatuck Valley Regional Development Corporation;
      (3)   Housing Site Development Agency, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-
216b; and
      (4)   Community Development Agency, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-169b
(c).
   (B)   Further, the WDC is authorized and empowered to administer, supervise,
implement and control the city's:
      (1)   Enterprise Zone, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 32-70 et seq. and
§§ 152.02 et seq. of the city code; and
      (2)   Information Technology Zone (the "ITZ"), pursuant to Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 12-65b.
   (C)   Other projects.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 38 of the code of ordinances of the city, whenever requested by the
Mayor and approved by resolution of the Board of Aldermen, on a project-by-
project basis, the WDC is hereby designated, appointed and authorized to act on
behalf of the city in the capacity of general contractor, project manager,
construction manager, design builder, owner's representative and/or in such
other similar development or construction capacity or capacities as may be
designated by the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen, for purposes of city-funded
construction and/or rehabilitation projects, thereby enabling the city to
utilize the WDC's expertise in project design, development and/or management,
without the requirement or necessity of a bid.
      (2)   Further, when requested by the Mayor and approved by resolutions of
the Board of Aldermen and the Waterbury Board of Education, on a project-by-
project basis, the WDC is hereby designated, appointed and authorized and may
perform in the same capacity or capacities as set forth above for any city
school construction and/or rehabilitation project.
      (3)   In any such project as set forth herein, the WDC shall only be
allowed to collect and the city shall only be required to pay for the
reasonable administrative and out-of pocket costs and expenses of the WDC's
services, without the addition or inclusion of any profit. The WDC shall
divulge the total estimated amount of such administrative costs and expenses
for each such project to the Mayor, the Board of Aldermen and, when
appropriate, the Waterbury Board of Education before such designation,
appointment and/or approval is made. In furtherance of the disclosure, the WDC
shall retain and make all of its books and records available for inspection by
the city or its designee, before and throughout the project and for such period
of time after its completion as shall be reasonably required to enable the city
to comply with any federal, state and/or local law, ordinance or regulation
regarding the auditing of the project.
      (4)   Any procurement, (as such term is defined in §
38.002 of the code of ordinances of the city) by the WDC in connection with
work authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance with the
Centralized Procurement System Ordinance of the city (
Chapter 38 of the code of ordinances of the city) and be performed by or under
the direction and supervision of the city's Director of Purchasing, in his sole
discretion.
   (D)   In accordance with such designations, appointments and authorizations,
the WDC shall possess, utilize, exercise and discharge all powers and duties
granted to it pursuant to the delineated and associated provisions of the state
general statutes and/or the Charter and ordinances of the city, as such may be
amended, supplemented or replaced, from time to time, in the best interests of
the city.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.270 TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY GRANTED BY PRIOR DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Naugatuck Valley Development Corporation (NVDC).
      (1)   Any and all authority previously granted by the Board of Aldermen
to the Naugatuck Valley Development Corporation authorizing it to develop and
administer the Information Technology Zone pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-
65b is hereby terminated upon the effective date of this section, except that
this section shall not terminate or amend, and the NVDC shall retain, such
authority that it requires to continue and/or complete any outstanding city
projects or functions that the Board of Aldermen shall by resolution designate
for continuation and/or completion by the NVDC.
      (2)   Any such city projects or functions presently under NVDC control
not so designated for continuation and/or completion by the NVDC shall be
undertaken and completed by the WDC. In furtherance hereof, the WDC shall
succeed to any and all right, title and interest which the NVDC may have in and
to any contract and/or property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and
shall further succeed to any and all liabilities which the NVDC may possess,
known or unknown, actual or contingent, which are not the result of negligence
or error or omission on the part of the NVDC, related to city projects or
functions not so designated for continuation or completion by the NVDC.
   (B)   Office of Housing and Neighborhood Development (OHND).
      (1)   Any and all authority previously granted by the Board of Aldermen
to the Office of Housing and Neighborhood Development designating it to act on
behalf of the city as the Housing Site Development Agency pursuant to Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 8-216b and the Community Development Agency pursuant to Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 8-169b(c) is hereby terminated upon the effective date of this section.
      (2)   The WDC shall succeed to any and all right, title and interest,
which the OHND may have in and to any contracts and/or property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, and shall further succeed to any and all
liabilities which the OHND may possess, known or unknown, actual or contingent,
relative to OHND's operation as the Housing Site Development Agency and the
Community Development Agency of the city.
      (3)   Any and all authority previously granted by the Board of Aldermen
to OHND designating it to act on behalf of the city as the Urban Homesteading
Agency pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 8-l69q et seq., is hereby terminated
upon the effective date of this section, and the authority is hereby
transferred to the Waterbury Development Agency (the "WDA") along with any and
all right, title and interest which the OHND may have in and to any contracts
and/or property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and shall further
succeed to any and all liabilities which the OHND may possess, known or
unknown, actual or contingent, relative to its role as the city's Urban
Homesteading Agency.
   (C)   Waterbury Development Agency (WDA).
      (1)   Any and all authority previously granted by the Board of Aldermen
to the Waterbury Development Agency or its Executive Director authorizing it
and/or him to administer, supervise, implement and/or control the city's
Enterprise Zone pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 32-70 et seq. and City Code §§
152.02 et seq. is hereby terminated upon the effective date of this section.
      (2)   The WDC shall succeed to any and all right, title and interest,
which the WDA may have in and to any contracts and/or property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, and shall further succeed to any and all
liabilities which the WDA may possess, known or unknown, actual or contingent,
relative to the WDA's administration, supervision, implementation and/or
control of the city's Enterprise Zone.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
MUNICIPAL AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
§ 31.280 PREAMBLE.
   The city recognizes that there are enormous advantages to utilizing an
organization to oversee projects having a regional impact, to market on a
regional basis, and to apply for state funding on specific projects in
collaboration with one or more other municipalities. To that end, the city and
the Borough of Naugatuck have agreed to utilize Naugatuck Valley Regional
Development Corporation ("NVRDC"), a Connecticut non-stock corporation, for
regional marketing, project management and funding applications and for any
other matter permitted by law. WDC will continue to serve those city functions
prescribed under City Code §§
31.265 et. seq.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.281 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   NVRDC is hereby designated as the city's:
      (1)   Development Agency, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-188, in
addition to WDC; and
      (2)   Implementing Agency, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 32-224, in
addition to WDC.
   (B)   Other NVRDC projects.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 38 of the code of ordinances of the city, whenever requested by the
Mayor and approved by resolution of the Board of Aldermen, on a project-by-
project basis, the NVRDC is hereby designated, appointed and authorized to act
on behalf of the city in the capacity of general contractor, project manager,
construction manager, design builder, owner's representative and/or in such
other similar development or construction capacity or capacities as may be
designated by the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen, for purposes of city-funded
construction and/or rehabilitation projects, thereby enabling the city to
utilize the NVRDC's expertise in project design, development and/or management,
without the requirement or necessity of a bid. In furtherance of the foregoing,
and prior to any particular action being taken by the Mayor or the Board of
Aldermen pursuant to this division (B), the Mayor shall have the authority to
designate NVRDC as the city's agent to review, plan and conduct a feasibility
analysis of potential projects on an ongoing basis.
      (2)   In any such project as set forth herein, the NVRDC shall only be
allowed to collect and the city shall only be required to pay for the
reasonable administrative and out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the NVRDC's
services, without the addition or inclusion of any profit. The NVRDC shall
divulge the total estimated amount of such administrative costs and expenses
for each such project to the Mayor, and the Board of Aldermen before such
designation, appointment and/or approval is made. In furtherance of the
disclosure, the NVRDC shall retain and make all of its books and records
available for inspection by the city or its designee, before and throughout the
project and for such period of time after its completion as shall be reasonably
required to enable the city to comply with any federal, state and/or local law,
ordinance or regulation regarding the auditing of the project.
      (3)   Any procurement, (as such term is defined in §
38.002 of the code of ordinances of the city) by the NVRDC in connection with
work authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance with the
Centralized Procurement System Ordinance of the city (
Chapter 38 of the code of ordinances of the city) and be performed by or under
the direction and supervision of the city's Director of Purchasing, in his sole
discretion.
   (C)   In accordance with such designations, appointments and authorizations,
the NVRDC shall possess, utilize, exercise and discharge all powers and duties
granted to it pursuant to the delineated and associated provisions of the state
general statutes and/or the Charter and ordinances of the city, as such may be
amended, supplemented or replaced, from time to time, in the best interests of
the city.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2019)
CHANGES IN MEETING SCHEDULES
§ 31.285 VOTE TO CHANGE DATE OR TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS OR APPOINTIVE BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS.
   Any other provision of this subchapter notwithstanding, any board or
commission established and empowered hereunder may, by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present at any properly called and noticed meeting
thereof, elect to change the date or time, or both, of its regular meetings.
Any change of the date of, or of the time of, any regular meeting of any board
or commission adopted pursuant to this section shall become effective, if at
all, only after compliance with the procedures set forth in §
31.286 below.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2009)
§ 31.286 PROCEDURES FOR CHANGING DATES AND TIMES OF REGULAR MEETINGS OF
APPOINTIVE BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Any board or commission which, pursuant to §
31.285 above, votes to change the date or time of its regular meeting shall
continue to hold its regular meetings on the date, and at the time, scheduled
for such regular meetings prior to said vote having been taken until the
following has occurred:
   (A)   The clerk of the board or commission in question has been instructed
by the board or commission to send written notice of the vote to change the
date or time of its meeting to the City Clerk and the clerk of said board or
commission has in fact sent such written notice; and
   (B)   The City Clerk determines that the change of date or time anticipated
by said vote will not create any conflict, nor result in circumstance that, in
the City Clerk's opinion, will:
      (1)   Violate any other applicable law, regulation, ordinance, policy or
procedure provided that the City Clerk will make this determination only after
consultation with the City's Corporation Counsel; or
      (2)   Prevent the subject board's or commission's clerk from being able
to fulfill their obligations as clerk for such board or commission due to
competing obligations to act in that capacity for any other city board or
commission; or
      (3)   Unduly burden the city's ability to provide adequate meeting space
on the date, or at the time, anticipated by said vote; or
      (4)   Unreasonably interfere with the ability of the either public, city
staff or city representatives to participate in the meetings of the subject
board or commission due to the likelihood that either the public or said city
staff or representatives may desire to, or may be required to, participate in
meetings of other city boards or commissions taking place at or about the same
time as that to which the subject board or commission seeks to reschedule its
meeting; or
      (5)   Be adverse to the best interests of the city; and
   (C)   The City Clerk sends written notice to the subject board or commission
that he has made the determinations set forth in division (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above and that he, therefore, has no objection to the change of date or time
anticipated by the vote; and
   (D)   The City Clerk causes notice of the change of date or time anticipated
by the vote to be published for two consecutive days, at least ten days prior
to the first of the regular meetings to be held on the date or time anticipated
by the vote, in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2009)
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
§ 31.290 VOTING DISTRICTS FOR ELECTION TO BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   Pursuant to Charter § 3A-1(b), commencing with the regular election on
November 3, 2015, and for all future elections which may be held for election
to the Board of Aldermen, unless and until otherwise required by law, the five
voting districts for such election shall be as set forth on a certain map
entitled “Official City of Waterbury 2015 Aldermanic Districting Map prepared
by Dr. Peter Morrison, as adopted on March 9, 2015", which map shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the offices of the Town Clerk and the
Registrars of Voters. The district map was adopted by the Board of Aldermen on
March 9, 2015, after consideration of the recommendations of the District
Reapportionment Commission pursuant to Charter § 3A-1(b)(2).
(Ord. passed 4-20-2015)
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING
§ 31.300 DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
   The Bureau of Engineering shall hereinafter be the Department of
Engineering.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021)
§ 31.301 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Department of Engineering shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Developing long range capital improvement plans and budgets;
   (B)   Designing, managing, and inspecting construction projects;
   (C)   Maintaining maps and records of the city’s infrastructure;
   (D)   Conducting land surveying duties;
   (E)   Issuing street opening permits;
   (F)   Assigning house numbers;
   (G)   Approving and inspecting building permits in regard to impacts on the
city’s infrastructure;
   (H)   Reviewing, approving, and inspecting public and private improvements
for land development projects;
   (I)   Operating and maintaining the city traffic signal system and
maintaining road striping and traffic signs;
   (J)   Addressing citizen concerns with regard to engineering and/or
infrastructure issues;
   (K)   Marking out “Call Before You Dig” for storm sewers and providing
services to all other city departments as requested;
   (L)   Managing the city’s stormwater management plan;
   (M)   Engaging in procurement consistent with this code;
   (N)   Developing annual departmental operating budgets;
   (O)   Advising various boards and commissions; and
   (P)   Such other powers and duties as were conferred upon the Bureau of
Engineering prior to the effective date of this section.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021)
§ 31.302 CITY ENGINEER.
   The head of the Department of Engineering shall be the City Engineer, who
shall hereinafter be a department head as that term is used in the Charter and
this code.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Disposition of premium paid for bonds
   
32.02   Sinking funds
   
32.03   Writing off certain receivables
Taxes
   
32.15   Rate bill; warrant for collection
   
32.16   Abatement of taxes for low and moderate income housing
   
32.17   Payment of motor vehicle taxes and other tax bills under $50
   
32.18   Property tax exemptions for solar energy systems
   
32.19   Exemption of real and personal property acquired by certain tax-exempt
institutions
   
32.20   Notice to pay taxes
   
32.21   Specific penalties regarding the failure to pay taxes
   
32.22   Tax Collector function
   
32.23   Demand and levy for the collection of taxes
   
32.24   Legal actions pertaining to real estate taxes
   
32.25   Fees and costs payable to the city in legal actions pertaining to the
collection of taxes
   
32.26   Joint administration of the Enterprise Fund collections pertaining to
water and sewer services
   
32.27   Applicability of Chapters 38 and 39 of the Code of Ordinances to the
procurement and ethical standards applicable to marshals, constables, special
constables, collection agencies and other vendors pertaining to the collection
of taxes
   
32.28   Urban Rehabilitation Home Ownership Program tax deferral
   
32.29   Tax exemptions for co-generation systems
   
32.30   Property tax exemption; Gold Star parents and spouses
Budget and Finance Procedures
   
32.40   Limitations pertaining to budget transfers
Charter reference:
   Financial departments and agencies, see Charter Ch. 7, Part C
   Fiscal provisions generally, see Charter Chs. 9 and 10
   Powers of Board of Aldermen related to finances, see Charter § 3A-2
   Taxation, see Charter Ch. 1, Part B, § 2A-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DISPOSITION OF PREMIUM PAID FOR BONDS.
   The premium received on the sale of city bonds shall be transferred to the
fund which will meet the debt service payments on the particular issue. The
premium shall be amortized over the life of the issue in the proportion of each
annual interest payment to the gross total of the interest cost on the issue.
Accrued interest received on the sale of the bonds shall be applied to the
first interest payment falling due on the bonds.
(1967 Code, § 2-13)
Charter reference:
   Appropriations and bond issues, see Charter Chs. 9 and 10
§ 32.02 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   A sinking fund is hereby established for the purpose of retiring and
cancelling the outstanding paving bonds of the city. The treasurer of the
Sinking Fund shall be appointed by the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners. All
money hitherto appropriated and which shall hereafter be appropriated for the
aforesaid purpose shall be deposited with the treasurer of the Fund. The
treasurer shall, before entering upon his duties, give bonds for the faithful
performance of his duties to the city, to the satisfaction of the Board of
Finance, in the amount as that Board may from time to time determine.
   (B)   A Sinking Fund is hereby established for the purpose of retiring and
cancelling the outstanding street improvement bonds of the city. The treasurer
of the Sinking Fund shall be appointed by the Board of Sinking Fund
Commissioners. All money hitherto appropriated and which shall hereafter be
appropriated for the aforesaid purpose shall be deposited with the treasurer of
the Fund. The treasurer shall, before entering upon his duties, give bonds for
the faithful performance of his duties to the city, to the satisfaction of the
Board of Finance, in the amount as that Board may, from time to time,
determine.
(1967 Code, § 2-14)
§ 32.03 WRITING OFF CERTAIN RECEIVABLES.
   (A)   Tax receivables; the municipal suspense tax book.
      (1)   The Collector of Taxes shall deliver to the Board of Aldermen, at
least once in each year, a report pertaining to the Municipal Suspense Tax Book
including such information required by the general statutes.
      (2)   In accordance with the requirements of the general statutes, the
Collector shall certify that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, each tax
contained in the report has not been paid and is uncollectible. Thereafter, the
uncollectible tax shall be transferred to the Suspense Tax Book. Transfer to
the Suspense Tax Book shall not be construed as an abatement of any tax so
transferred and said taxes may be collected as permitted by the general
statutes.
   (B)   Other receivables. The Director of Finance, in consultation with the
City Auditor, shall establish standards for transferring uncollectible
receivables from the balance sheet of the city, with the exception of taxes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
TAXES
§ 32.15 RATE BILL; WARRANT FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Whenever any tax has been laid, the Mayor shall prepare and sign a
proper rate bill therefor.
(1967 Code, § 2-15)
   (B)   The Mayor shall cause the rate bill with a proper warrant for the
collection of the tax to be delivered to the Tax Collector.
(1967 Code, § 2-16)
   (C)   In accordance with the general statutes, the Collector shall issue a
warrant for the collection of any sums due on the rate bills; however, failure
to send out any such bill or statement shall not invalidate the tax.
   (D)   The Collector may permit collection of taxes by credit card in
accordance with the requirements of the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
Charter reference:
   Rate bill, see Charter § 7C-1(m)
Statutory reference:
   Rate bills, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 12-123 and 12-180
§ 32.16 ABATEMENT OF TAXES FOR LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING. Housing, the construction or
rehabilitation of which is aided or assisted in any way by any federal or state
statute, which housing is subject to regulation or supervision of rents,
charges or sale prices and methods of operation by a governmental agency under
a regulatory agreement or other instrument which restricts occupancy of the
housing to persons or families whose incomes do not exceed prescribed limits.
      OWNER. A person, partnership, joint venture or corporation who or which
has executed, or will execute, a regulatory agreement or other instrument with
a governmental agency, either federal, state or local, which limits occupancy
of the low and moderate income housing owned or to be owned by the person,
partnership, joint venture or corporation to persons or families whose incomes
do not exceed prescribed limits.
   (B)   Contract for abatement. The Mayor may enter into contracts for the
city with owners of low and moderate income housing, granting abatement, in
whole or in part, of the taxes on the real estate used for the low and moderate
income housing, subject to and dependent upon the terms of divisions (C) and
(D) of this section. The amount of the abatement shall be established in each
contract, giving due consideration to the purposes to which the money
equivalent of the taxes so abated is to be applied. Each contract shall require
that the owner apply the money equivalent of the taxes so abated to one or more
of the following specified purposes:
      (1)   To reduce rents below the levels which would be achieved in the
absence of abatement;
      (2)   To effect occupancy of housing by persons and families of varying
income levels, within limits determined by the Connecticut Commissioner of
Economic and Community Development by regulation; and
      (3)   To provide necessary related facilities or services in housing.
   (C)   Term of abatement.
      (1)   The abatement shall become effective on the date specified in the
contract between the city and an owner of low and moderate income housing.
      (2)   The abatement shall terminate at any time when the property for
which tax abatement has been granted is not used solely for low and moderate
income housing or is not used for the purposes stated in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-
215, as amended; and provided further, that the continuation for the abatement
shall be conditioned upon the continuation of state reimbursement to the city
for the abatement. The abatement authorized herein shall be granted only for
low and moderate income housing upon which construction or rehabilitation
commenced after July 1, 1967.
   (D)   State assistance. The Mayor shall execute on behalf of the city
contracts with the state for financial assistance by the state in the form of
reimbursement for the tax abatement granted to an owner of low and moderate
income housing in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-216, as amended.
(1967 Code, § 2-16.1) (Ord. passed 9-3-1969; Ord. passed 11-17-1969; Ord.
passed 8-20-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of taxes for low and moderate income housing, see Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 8-215
§ 32.17 PAYMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE TAXES AND OTHER TAX BILLS UNDER $50.
   All motor vehicle taxes under $200 shall be paid in one installment. All
other tax bills under $50 shall be paid in one installment.
(1967 Code, § 2-16.2) (Ord. passed 12-21-1970; Ord. passed 3-19-1990)
Charter reference:
   Payment of taxes, see Charter §§ 1B-2, 1B-3
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to adopt this section, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 12-144, 12-
144a
§ 32.18 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Authorized. To any building or addition to a building in the city, the
construction of which is commenced on or after October 1, 1976, and before
October 1, 2006, which is equipped with a solar energy heating or cooling
system, a property tax exemption shall apply to the extent of the amount by
which the assessed valuation of the real property equipped with the solar
heating or cooling system exceeds the assessed valuation of the real property
equipped with the conventional portion of the heating or cooling system,
exclusive of any portion of the system related to solar energy; provided, this
exemption shall only apply to the first 15 assessment years following
construction of the building or addition.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this division, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM means equipment, including
windmills and waterwheels, which provides for the collection, transfer, storage
and use of incident solar energy for water heating, space heating or cooling
which, absent solar energy system would require a conventional energy resource,
such as petroleum products, natural gas or electricity, and which meets
standards established by regulation by the Commissioner of Planning and Energy
Policy.
   (C)   Filing of claim. Any person who desires to claim the exemption
provided in this section shall file with the Assessor, within 30 days following
the annual assessment date, October 1, written application claiming the
exemption on a form as prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. Failure to file the
application in the manner and form within the time limit prescribed shall
constitute a waiver of the right to the exemption for the assessment year.
(1967 Code, § 2-16.3) (Ord. passed 4-27-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to adopt this section, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(56)
§ 32.19 EXEMPTION OF REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT
INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81b, the property tax exemption
authorized by any of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(7) to (16), inclusive, shall be
effective as of the date of acquisition of the property to which the exemption
applies. When a qualifying organization has paid a tax for a period subsequent
to the date of acquisition of the property or when the tax-exempt organization
has reimbursed the prior owner for taxes paid by the prior owner for a period
subsequent to the date of acquisition of the property, the organization may
apply for reimbursement of the payments. The exemption shall be applied to the
October 1, 1996 Grand List and all subsequent Grand List years.
   (B)   The application must be made to the Tax Collector for the city and
must be in the form of a written request sent certified mail, return receipt
requested, or on any form prescribed by the Tax Collector for the city. With
regard to requests relating to the October 1, 1996 Grand List, the application
must be made not later than three months following the effective date of this
section. With regard to requests relating to the October 1, 1997 Grand List and
all subsequent Grand List years, application must be made not later than the
first day of October next following the date of acquisition by the qualifying
corporation. If the application requests reimbursement for taxes paid by the
prior owner for a period subsequent to the date of acquisition for which the
qualifying corporation reimbursed the owner on transfer of title to the
property, the application must contain all documentation supporting the claim
of reimbursement, including copies of checks and/or statements evidencing the
amount reimbursed by the qualifying corporation upon transfer of title. Upon
application by a qualifying corporation in strict conformity with provisions
set forth herein, the Tax Collector for the city is authorized and directed to
reimburse the tax exempt organization for all such payments made by it for a
period subsequent to the date of acquisition of the property.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998; Ord. passed 1-13-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Local tax-exempt institutions, see §
152.06
§ 32.20 NOTICE TO PAY TAXES.
   The Collector shall provide notice and charge interest in accordance with
the requirement of the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.21 SPECIFIC PENALTIES REGARDING THE FAILURE TO PAY TAXES.
   The city may revoke municipal and district health department permits and
withhold municipal payments for the failure to pay certain taxes in accordance
with the requirements of the general statutes. Furthermore, no building permits
shall be issued as set forth in the zoning regulations of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.22 TAX COLLECTOR FUNCTION.
   (A)   In accordance with § 7C-1(m) of the Charter of the city, the Director
of Finance is responsible for the supervision of the collection of taxes. The
Director shall appoint a subordinate employee to assume the functions of the
Tax Collector as set forth in the general statutes, the Charter and these
ordinances.
   (B)   Upon designation the Tax Collector and any deputies or Acting
Collectors shall be sworn in, in accordance with the general statutes.
   (C)   Where the term COLLECTOR or TAX COLLECTOR is used in this code, it
shall refer to the subordinate employee appointed by the Director of Finance in
accordance with the Charter of the city.
   (D)   In order to facilitate the collection process the Tax Collector may
utilize the services of other departments of the city and/or obtain the
services of vendors who provide collection services in accordance with the
general statutes, Charter and the code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.23 DEMAND AND LEVY FOR THE COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   Upon the failure of any person to pay any tax, the Collector shall make such
personal demand and levy for the collection of taxes as permitted by the
general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.24 LEGAL ACTIONS PERTAINING TO REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Method of selling real estate for taxes. The Collector may proceed
with the sale of real estate for taxes, in conformity with the methods set
forth in the general statutes by auction in order to collect the taxes,
interest, fees and other charges permitted by the general statutes. In the
event there is no bidder or the amount bid is insufficient to pay the amount
due, the Collector may prepare a deed to the city, as set forth in the general
statutes.
      (1)   Notice. Notice of the sale, including the amount due and any
applicable rules for the conduct of the auction shall be promulgated in
accordance with the requirements of the general statutes.
      (2)   Assistance. The Collector or the city may retain the services of
auctioneers, clerks, marshals and other persons to assist the collector in the
conduct of the sale and the cost of such persons paid for their services shall
be added to the taxes due from the delinquent taxpayer, in accordance with the
general statutes.
      (3)   Execution of deed: notice regarding expiration of the redemption
period. The Collector shall execute a deed ("Collector's deed") in the name of
the purchaser or the city to be held by the Town Clerk unrecorded for the
period of time set forth in the general statutes. Within the time period and in
the manner set forth in the general statutes, the Collector shall publish
general notice and provide specific notice to the delinquent taxpayer and each
mortgagee, lien holder and encumbrancer whose interest in the property is
affected by the sale, pertaining to the expiration of the redemption period,
the relative rights of the parties and the extinguishment of their respective
rights in the event redemption does not occur prior to its expiration.
      (4)   Accelerated redemption period.
         (a)   In accordance with the provisions of the general statutes, the
city has the right to reduce the period of redemption, to not later than 60
days from the date of the sale, for real property:
            1.   That was abandoned;
            2.   Where the tax arrearage covered two or more grand list years;
and
               a.   The property is vacant; or
               b.   A blight citation has been issued against the property; or
               c.   A health citation has been issued against the property; or
               d.   There exists a delinquency on the payment of sewer and
water charges of more than two years.
            3.   Where the tax arrearage covers five or more grand list years.
         (b)   The right of redemption and the notice and method of redeeming
the affected property and cancellation of the Collector's deed are fully set
forth in the general statutes; however, if the purchase money and interest are
not paid, by the redeeming party, within the redemption period, the Collector's
deed shall be recorded and have full effect.
      (5)   Other rights of the city or purchaser. In accordance with the
provisions of the general statutes, the purchaser or the city shall have a
sufficient insurable interest in buildings and improvements upon the property
to insure them against fire and other risk of physical loss, and may petition
the Superior Court for the appointment of a receiver or for other equitable
relief if there shall be imminent danger of damage or destruction thereto or
imminent danger of injury to persons or to other property resulting from
conditions thereon or on adjoining properties. The purchaser or the
municipality shall not be liable to any person, or subjected to forfeiture of
their interest, solely by reason of acquisition by the person of the tax deed,
for any condition existing or occurrence upon the property or adjoining public
sidewalks and streets, or for any failure to act to remedy or investigate any
such condition or occurrence during such redemption period. The expenses of any
receiver appointed on the application of such purchaser or municipality in
excess of any rents or profits paid to the receiver shall be added to the
amount of the purchase money and interest required to be paid or tendered by
any redeeming party to the purchaser or municipality for the Collector's deed
and paid to the party that incurred the expenses.
      (6)   Realization of an amount in excess of the amount of delinquent
taxes. In the event the sale realizes an amount in excess of the amount needed
to pay all delinquent taxes, interest, penalties, fees and costs, the Collector
shall follow the provisions of the general statutes.
   (B)   Collection by suit. The Collector or the city may proceed with the
recovery of taxes properly assessed or of fees and amounts due to the city, by
any proper action in the name of the city as set forth in the general statutes.
   (C)   Collection by alias tax warrant. The Collector may serve an alias tax
warrant for the collection of taxes as set forth in the general statutes.
   (D)   Jeopardy collection of taxes. In the event the Collector believes that
the collection of any tax may be jeopardized by delay, between the assessment
date and the tax due date, the Collector shall proceed with the collection of
taxes forthwith as set forth in the general statutes.
   (E)   Receivership of rents. The city may petition the Superior Court or a
judge thereof for the appointment of a receiver of the rents or payments for
use and occupancy for any property for which the owner, agent, lessor or
manager is delinquent in the payment of real property taxes or fees in
accordance with the provisions of the general statutes.
   (F)   Foreclosure and summary foreclosure of tax liens. The Collector may
bring suit for the foreclosure of tax liens (including summary foreclosure) in
the name of the city as set forth in the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.25 FEES AND COSTS PAYABLE TO THE CITY IN LEGAL ACTIONS PERTAINING TO THE
COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   Fees. The fee of collectors for issuing an alias tax warrant and upon
the levy and sale of real or personal property are set forth in the general
statutes.
   (B)   Reasonable and necessary costs or expenses. All other reasonable and
necessary costs or expenses for necessary advertising, postage on notices and
reasonable sums paid town clerks or other persons for examining records to
ascertain encumbrances upon property sold, for preparing notices at the
direction of the Collector, for drafting Collector's deeds, for attorney's
fees, for all costs incurred by the city in defending any civil action brought
as a result of a tax sale or an alias tax warrant or which seeks to enjoin or
declare unlawful any tax sale or alias tax warrant, for the services of
auctioneers, clerks and other persons retained to assist the Collector in
conducting the tax sale and for any other fees and expenses incurred, shall be
added to the fees permitted by the general statutes. All fees and additions
provided for by this section shall be paid by the delinquent taxpayer or as
provided in the general statutes.
   (C)   Fees and costs payable to city for the collection of delinquent taxes
on personal property. In the institution of proceedings by the city to enforce
collection of any delinquent tax on personal property from the owner of the
property, through:
      (1)   Levy and sale with respect to any goods or chattels owned by the
person;
      (2)   Enforcement of a lien, established and perfected in accordance with
the general statutes, upon any such goods or chattels; or
      (3)   Any other proceeding in law in the name of the city for purposes of
enforcing the collection, the person shall be required to pay any court costs,
reasonable appraiser's fees or reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
municipality as a result of and directly related to the levy and sale,
enforcement of lien or other collection proceedings.
   (D)   The word "tax" as defined by the general statutes. As set forth in the
general statutes, unless the context otherwise requires, the word TAX shall
include each property tax and each installment and part thereof due to the
city, as the tax may have been increased by interest, penalties, fees and
charges, including collection fees of a collection agency and attorneys' fees;
provided, the attorneys' fees shall be limited to those ordered by the court in
any court action or proceeding brought to recover the tax.
   (E)   Authority of the Collector to collect taxes together with all
interest, penalties, fees and charges. The Collector may collect any tax at any
time by authority of any present or future legislation providing for the
collection of any tax and the Collector may photostat the receipted bills of
the collected taxes. The Collector shall, within a reasonable period after each
unpaid tax, or the first installment thereof in case installment payments have
been authorized, has become due and payable, proceed to collect the tax as it
has been increased by interest, penalties, fees and charges and shall, when
collection has been made, pay the same, together with all interest, penalties,
fees and charges to the Director of Finance. The obligation, to collect shall
be exclusive of each:
      (1)   Lawful abatement;
      (2)   Lawful deduction because of a correction which has been made under
the provisions of any legislation providing for corrections of taxes;
      (3)   Uncollectible tax which has been lawfully transferred to the
suspense tax book as set forth in the general statutes;
      (4)   Uncollectible tax removed as set forth in the general statutes; and
      (5)   Uncollectible tax removed from the rate bills as set forth in the
general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.26 JOINT ADMINISTRATION OF THE ENTERPRISE FUND COLLECTIONS PERTAINING TO
WATER AND SEWER SERVICES.
   (A)   The Bureau of Water and Department of Water Pollution Control shall be
responsible for the joint administration and management of Enterprise Fund
Collections pertaining to water and sewer services. In order to facilitate the
collection process, the Department may utilize the services of other
departments of the city and/or obtain the services of vendors who provide
collection services in accordance with the general statutes, Charter and the
code of ordinances. Moreover, the joint administration shall not abrogate the
appropriate functions of the Office of the Corporation Counsel and the tax
collection responsibilities of the Department of Finance, as set forth in the
Charter of the city. In this respect, the Bureau and the Department shall
advise and seek consultation from the Corporation Counsel with respect to all
collection strategies, procedures and methods.
   (B)   In the institution of proceedings by the city to enforce the
collection of fees pertaining to the Municipal Sewerage System and Waterworks
Systems the person liable for the payment shall be required to pay the fees and
costs permitted by the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.27 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTERS 38 AND 39 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES TO THE
PROCUREMENT AND ETHICAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO MARSHALS, CONSTABLES, SPECIAL
CONSTABLES, COLLECTION AGENCIES AND OTHER VENDORS PERTAINING TO THE COLLECTION
OF TAXES.
   The provisions of
Chapter 38 entitled "Centralized Procurement System" and
Chapter 39 entitled "Ethics and Conflicts of Interest" shall apply to all
persons or entities hired to perform services under this chapter or pertaining
to the collection of taxes or other fees and payments due to the city. All
written agreements with the persons or entities shall set forth the specific
terms, manner and order of payment for any fee due thereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 32.28 URBAN REHABILITATION HOME OWNERSHIP PROGRAM TAX DEFERRAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARTICIPANT. A resident owner participating in the Program and residing
in, or purchasing a primary residence in the city.
      PROGRAM. The Urban Rehabilitation Homeownership Program of the
Connecticut Housing Finance Authority.
   (B)   Pursuant to Conn Gen. Stat. § 8-265qq, a participant may enter into an
agreement with the city to receive a deferral on any increase in real property
tax assessment attributable to rehabilitation completed through the Program,
for up to five years from the date of the completion.
   (C)   Any such assessment increase deferral agreement shall provide for:
      (1)   The completion of the rehabilitation by a date fixed;
      (2)   The inspection and certification by the Department of Inspection
that the completed rehabilitation is in conformance with such provisions of the
state and local building and health codes as may apply; and
      (3)   The continued residence of the applicant in the property during the
period of deferral.
   (D)   In the event of a general revaluation in the year in which the
rehabilitation is completed resulting in any increase in the assessment of the
real property, only that portion of the increase resulting from the
rehabilitation shall be deferred; and in the event of a general revaluation in
any year after the year in which the rehabilitation is completed, the deferred
assessment shall be increased or decreased in proportion to the increase or
decrease in the total assessment on the property as a result of the general
reevaluation.
   (E)   The Mayor shall be authorized to sign all documents to effectuate the
agreement.
   (F)   In the event the Program is discontinued by the state, no new
applications for tax deferrals shall be processed by the city.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 32.29 TAX EXEMPTIONS FOR CO-GENERATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   That in accordance with the Connecticut General Statutes, any co-
generation system installed on or after July 1, 2007 shall be exempt from
taxation for not more than 15 assessment years following the installation of
the system. This exemption shall not apply to additions to resources recovery
facilities operating on October 1, 1994, or to resources recovery facilities
constructed on and after that date. This exemption also shall not apply to
property acquired by eminent domain for the purpose of qualifying for the
exemption.
   (B)   Any owner of any co-generation system described herein must enter into
a written agreement with the City of Waterbury, which agreement may require the
owner to make payments to the city in lieu of taxes. The agreement may vary the
amount of the payments in lieu of taxes in each assessment year of the
agreement, provided the payment in any assessment year is not greater than the
taxes which would otherwise be due in the absence of the exemption. Any
agreement negotiated pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Board
of Aldermen for the City of Waterbury for the Board of Aldermen's approval or
rejection.
   (C)   Any owner claiming the exemption provided in this section for any
assessment year and whose application has been approved in accordance with this
section shall, on or before the first day of November in such assessment year,
file with the City of Waterbury Assessor's Office written application claiming
the exemption. Failure to file the application in the manner and form as
provided by such Assessor's Office within the time limit prescribed shall
constitute a waiver of the right to the exemption for such assessment year.
Such application shall not be required for any assessment year following that
for which the initial application is filed, provided if such co-generation
system is altered in a manner which would require a building permit, such
alteration shall be deemed a waiver of the right to such exemption until a new
application, applicable with respect to such altered system, is filed and the
right to such exemption is established as required initially.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CO-GENERATION SYSTEM. Equipment which is designed, operated and installed
as a system which produces, in the same process, electricity and exhaust steam,
waste steam, heat or other resultant thermal energy which is used for space or
water heating or cooling, industrial, commercial, manufacturing or other useful
purposes and which meets standards established by regulation, in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 54, by the Secretary of the Connecticut Office
of Policy and Management.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 32.30 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION; GOLD STAR PARENTS AND SPOUSES.
   (A)   The qualifying income limit for the property tax exemption for Gold
Star Parents and Spouses shall be the limits established for the Elderly
Homeowners and Renters Rebate Program, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   The tax exemption amount for the Property Tax Exemption for Gold Star
Parents and Spouses shall be $20,000, provided such parent's or surviving
spouse's qualifying income does not exceed the maximum amount applicable to an
unmarried person as provided under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81.
(Ord. passed 9-23-2019)
BUDGET AND FINANCE PROCEDURES
§ 32.40 LIMITATIONS PERTAINING TO BUDGET TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The power of the Mayor to transfer any unencumbered appropriation
balance from one classification of expenditure to another within the same
agency, as permitted by § 9D-1(a) of the Charter, shall be limited to the
amount of $1,000 per occurrence and $5,000 in the aggregate. All transfers in
excess of the stated amounts as well as any transfers between agencies shall be
submitted to the Board of Aldermen for approval.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized to approve intra-agency transfers within a
classification of expenditure, upon certification of the availability of funds
in the agency budget by the Budget Director.
(Ord. passed 2-11-2003)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL PREPAREDNESS AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Authority to accept federal civil defense aid
   
33.02   Office of Emergency Management and Director
   
33.03   Powers and duties of Mayor
   
33.04   Advisory Board
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT FEDERAL CIVIL DEFENSE AID.
   The Mayor (or any other officer delegated or appointed by the Mayor) is
authorized to accept on behalf of the city, all equipment, supplies and
materials and money offered by the federal government to enable the city to
carry out any program, act or activity necessary to the proper functioning of
preparedness activities in the city. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute
such agreements or documents and to agree to reasonable terms and conditions as
may be required by the federal government for the grant, loan, lease or other
use or possession of the equipment, supplies, materials or money.
(1967 Code, § 2-37)
Statutory reference:
   Civil defense generally, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 28-1 through 28-31
§ 33.02 OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Creation. There shall be created an agency of city government to be
known as "The Office of Emergency Management".
   (B)   Director. The agency shall be under the supervision of the Director of
all disaster emergency functions. The Director shall:
      (1)   Be appointed by the Mayor;
      (2)   Serve at the will of the Mayor and may be removed by the Mayor at
any time;
      (3)   May also be removed from his position as provided in Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 28-7(b);
      (4)   Report directly to the Mayor and advise him on matters pertaining
to civil preparedness and disaster emergency operations;
      (5)   Coordinate the activities of all city agencies in disaster
emergency situations but in no case shall he assume command of any agency or
department other than the Office of Emergency Management unless directly
ordered to do so by the Mayor;
      (6)   Coordinate the activities of all emergency management agency
forces, both full-time and volunteer personnel, and shall be responsible for
the recruitment and training of needed emergency management personnel;
      (7)   Assist the Mayor in the preparation and updating of city emergency
operation plans and standard operating procedures;
      (8)   Maintain contact with the State Office of Emergency Management area
office designated for the city and shall cooperate with the state office by
submitting required reports, procedures and other necessary paper work so that
the city will be assured of receiving all possible funding, equipment and other
benefits available to the city through state and national emergency management;
      (9)   Devote his full time to the duties of his office and shall be
responsible for civil preparedness/emergency management of the city;
      (10)   Perform other duties for civil preparedness related functions as
may from time to time be assigned to him by the Mayor; and
      (11)   Receive compensation for the performance of his duties as may be
determined by the Mayor.
(1967 Code, § 2-37.1) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973; Ord. passed 8-24-1998)
§ 33.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   (A)   In the event of a disaster emergency, the Mayor shall assume full
command of all local government functions and facilities, including public
school facilities and personnel. All available local resources shall be brought
to bear on the emergency existing in an effort to protect and preserve human
life and property of the community to the greatest extent possible.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be limited only by the Governor of the State of
Connecticut in state declared emergencies or the President of the United States
of America in a declared national emergency.
(1967 Code, § 2-37.2) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973)
§ 33.04 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There shall be an Office of Emergency Management Advisory Board
consisting of the Mayor, as Chairperson, the aldermanic member of the Board of
Public Works, such other members of the Board of Aldermen who are chosen to
serve by the Mayor, the Chairperson of the Waterbury Disaster Committee, the
Chief of the Fire Department, the Superintendent of Police, the Director of
Health, a representative of the local Red Cross Chapter, a representative of
the local Salvation Army Chapter, the Superintendent of Schools, the
Superintendent of Public Assistance, a representative of industry, a
representative of labor, a representative of agriculture, a representative of a
veterans' organization, a representative of a women's organization, a
representative of the local chamber of commerce, and a representative of a
local news media.
   (B)   All appointments to the Board shall be made by the Mayor and the terms
of appointees to the Board shall be concurrent with the Mayor's term of office.
(1967 Code, § 2-37.3) (Ord. passed 5-7-1973; Ord. passed 8-24-1998)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Lost articles; state law adopted
Hiring of Waterbury Residents on Certain Publicly-Funded Construction Projects
   
34.10   Title
   
34.15   Purpose
   
34.16   Findings
   
34.17   Definitions
   
34.18   Hiring goal and implementation
   
34.19   Referral mechanism
   
34.20   Monitoring
   
34.21   Good faith efforts
   
34.22   Contract requirements for covered services
Cross-reference:
   Centralized procurement system, see
Ch. 38
   Interlocal agreements, see
Ch. 40
Statutory reference:
   Advertising; sale of perishable goods, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 50-11
   Disposition after expiration of time for making claim, see Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 50-14
   Duties of finder, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 50-10
   Lost and unclaimed property, see Conn. Gen. Stat. Ch. 859
   Procedure if unclaimed, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 50-13
   Restoration to owner if claimed, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 50-12
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 LOST ARTICLES; STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 50-10 through 50-14 are adopted as
permitted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 50-9 and shall apply within the city to the
finding of any article of the value of $1 or more.
(1967 Code, § 13-11)
HIRING OF WATERBURY RESIDENTS ON CERTAIN PUBLICLY-FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
§ 34.10 TITLE.
   The City of Waterbury Code of Ordinances §§
34.10 through
34.22 entitled “Hiring of Waterbury Residents on Certain Publicly-Funded
Construction Projects” shall also be known and may be cited as the “Good Jobs
Ordinance” for the City.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 34.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to increase the benefit to the City of
Waterbury and its residents from the city’s investment of public funds in
certain publicly-funded construction projects to allow the city to recognize,
as a benefit of such investment, a reduction in the amount of poverty and
unemployment that would otherwise exist amongst its residents and also to help
reduce the economic burden that would otherwise be placed on the city in having
to provide alternative assistance to those residents who, but for their being
hired pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance, would remain unemployed.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
§ 34.16 FINDINGS.
   The City of Waterbury finds that a substantial number of city residents are
not being employed by contractors performing work on publicly-funded
construction projects in the City of Waterbury and that the residents,
therefor, are not receiving the maximum possible benefit from the City of
Waterbury’s investment of public funds in the projects. The city further finds
that:
   (A)   Recent research of hiring patterns on construction projects reveals a
pattern of low hiring of residents in favor of nonresidents whose hiring is
draining significant resources from the city.
      (1)   Only 14% of work hours performed on the construction of the
$138,000,000 waste water treatment plant in 1998 - 1999 were performed by
residents;
      (2)   Only 10% of laborers hours on city street paving in 1999 were
performed by residents;
      (3)   With an average wage of $21 per hour on tax-funded city
construction work as exemplified by the waste water treatment plant
construction project, more than $13,000,000 in wages was lost by city residents
on that project. Due to typical turnover of those funds among businesses in the
community, $13,000,000 - $26,000,000 of additional economic activity from the
multiplier affect was lost to city businesses;
      (4)   As a result of the high percentage of noncity residents on
construction projects, fewer Waterbury residents are able to be home owners,
thus reducing property taxes to the city. For each resident who loses the
opportunity to be a home owner, the city loses an estimated $2,000 in revenue
per year.
      (5)   The migration of benefits caused by the high percentage of noncity
residents on construction projects increases the burden on health care
providers to provide uncompensated care to Waterbury residents without health
insurance. Over the course of the waste water treatment plant project alone,
for example, $5,000,000 in health and pension benefits were lost to city
residents. If this subchapter were minimally met, it would double the wages and
benefits going to city residents; and
      (6)   The extra cost to tax payers of the under-usage of apprentices on
the project compared to what is permissible under state law is estimated at
close to $1,000,000.
   (B)   Waterbury residents face higher rates of unemployment than other towns
and cities in the region and state.
      (1)   The unemployment rate among construction workers who are residents
of the city is 50% higher than the statewide unemployment rate among
construction workers, and more than double the unemployment rate among
construction workers in similarly-sized cities. For example, the Connecticut
Department of Labor reports that in September 1999, 324 city residents applied
for construction jobs at unemployment offices out of a total construction
workforce of 3,600 (9%). Statewide, 3,908 applicants applied out of a total
construction labor force of 63,800 (6%). In Danbury, 166 city residents applied
out of a total construction workforce of 4,100 (4%).
      (2)   Since 1984 the city’s unemployment rate has been consistently
higher than the rate of unemployment in the Naugatuck Valley region and the
state. Unemployment is especially severe in some neighborhoods, which faced up
to 19% unemployment, compared to the city’s 8% unemployment in the 1990 Census.
   (C)   Poverty is much greater and incomes are much lower in Waterbury than
elsewhere in the region and state.
      (1)   According to the 1990 Census, 12.1% of the city’s residents lived
below the poverty level, compared to 2.7% in the rest of the region and 6.8%
statewide.
      (2)   Median 1990 household income was $30,533 in Waterbury compared to
$41,721 for the state, and compared to $45,000 - $67,500 for towns in the rest
of the Naugatuck Valley region. Estimates updating this data to 1997 show
little change. Residents on average earn $10,000 less per capita than the
statewide average of $28,000.
      (3)   Poverty is even more pronounced in some neighborhoods with up to
30% of their residents in poverty.
      (4)   The average wage for residents coming off of welfare in the city is
one of the lowest in the State of Connecticut at $5.93 per hour.
      (5)   Over one-third of female headed households are under poverty.
      (6)   City children are among the poorest in the State of Connecticut,
61% of students city-wide are eligible for reduced price meals versus 25%
statewide.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
§ 34.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person(s), city department or agency designated by the
Mayor of the city with the responsibility of overseeing the implementation and
enforcement of this subchapter.
   APPRENTICE.  Definition as set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 31-22m and any
subsequent amendments approved by the Connecticut General Assembly is
incorporated by reference herein.
   BASIC SKILLED WORKER. A person who is currently enrolled in or having
completed a training program administered by or on behalf of a legally
organized labor union or a state-approved standardized craft training program.
Specifically excluded from this definition is an APPRENTICE as defined by Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 31-22m.
   CITY. The City of Waterbury, Connecticut.
   CITY FUNDS. Funds originating within the city pursuant to the city’s taxing
powers or authority to raise money through the sale of public bonds, permit tax
abatements and enter into tax fixing agreements and tax increment financing
agreements.
   CONSTRUCTION. The process of building, altering, repairing, improving or
demolishing any public infrastructure facility, including any public structure,
public building or other public improvements of any kind to city property or
other property or space in which the city has an interest. It does not include
the routine operation, routine repair or routine maintenance of any existing
public infrastructure facility, including structures, buildings or real
property.
   CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Any project for which the primary purpose involves
construction, as defined above, deconstruction, the remediation of any
hazardous materials as defined in the Connecticut General Statutes, the
rehabilitation or renovation of any structure or the creation, extension,
reconstruction, reconditioning or rebuilding of any portion of a municipal
infrastructure or public utility system.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person hired by the city, directly or indirectly through an
owner, to perform construction work on covered projects, including
subcontractors hired by general contractors.
   COVERED PROJECT. Any construction project taking place in the city with a
value of $500,000 or greater, funded in whole or in part by city funds or funds
administered by the city in accordance with federal or state grant or loan
programs or any other federal or state programs pursuant to which the city is
funding, in whole or in part, the project. This definition of COVERED PROJECT
shall include funds derived from the aforementioned federal or state grant,
loan or other programs only to the extent permitted by federal and state law.
The value of the projects shall equal the total consideration to be paid to all
contractors stated in each contract pursuant to which contractors are
performing construction work on covered projects.
   FIRST-SOURCE REFERRAL PROGRAM. A program whose purpose includes but is not
limited to, job training and the referral of qualified residents to
contractors. The FIRST-SOURCE REFERRAL PROGRAM shall use the Good Jobs umbrella
coalition of community groups and churches as a priority source for
recruitment.
   GOOD JOBS ADMINISTRATION BUDGET. The amount of funding required to oversee
the implementation and enforcement of this subchapter in a given fiscal year.
   HIRING GOAL. The 30% of the total worker hours on each covered project shall
be performed by residents. At least 25% of construction trade jobs shall go to
apprentices and/or basic skilled workers. At least 70% of all “new hires”
(those workers hired by a contractor on a project, other than existing
employees and those referred by union hiring halls with prior seniority in the
case of a union job) shall be “economically disadvantaged” individuals, defined
as those earning less than 150% of the poverty line at the time of application.
A minimum of 5% of the construction workforce labor hours will be local
resident, minority artisans. A minimum of 5% of the construction workforce
labor hours will be women. A minimum of 10% of the total work hours shall be
allocated for minorities. Contractors are expected to employ a workforce that
represents the population of the city.
   LIAISON COMMITTEE. The committee established by the Board of Aldermen to
monitor compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and make
recommendations to the Administrator and the Board of Aldermen regarding
administration of this subchapter. The committee shall convene at a minimum of
once every quarter in a space open to the public. The committee shall be
comprised of two representatives of the Board of Aldermen one to be appointed
by the President of the Board of Aldermen and one to be appointed by the
Minority Leader on the Board of Aldermen, one representative from the Board of
Education to be appointed by the President of the Board of Education, one
representative of the Workforce Development Board, and five representatives who
are appointed by the Board of Aldermen to represent: one contractor, one union,
one civil rights group, one community and one Human Rights Commission. The
committee members shall serve for a term of two years, and this nomination and
selection process shall be used to fill any vacancy.
   NEW HIRE. Those workers hired by a contractor on a project, other than
existing employees, and those referred by union hiring halls with prior
seniority in the case of a union job.
   OWNER. The person who enters into a contract with a contractor for work on a
covered project other than the city.
   PERSON. An individual or a company, partnership, foreign or domestic
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business entity.
   RESIDENT. Any person whose domicile is the City of Waterbury, Connecticut.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Simple, small-scale activities (usually requiring only
minimal skills or training) planned and performed at regular intervals and
being necessary to (1) extend the life of, or to delay or prevent the premature
failure of, any plant or system or of any structure or structural system,
building component or equipment; or (2) protect against normal wear and tear;
or (3) maintain a suitable aesthetic appearance. Examples of ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE may include, but are not limited to, lawn or grass cutting, hedge
trimming, painting, caulking, sealing, plumbing or electrical repairs, carpet
cleaning or other cleaning performed at regular intervals.
   SUBCONTRACTOR. Any person hired by a contractor to perform construction work
on covered projects.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 8-19-2013; Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 34.18 HIRING GOAL AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   All contractors and subcontractors performing work on covered projects
shall make good faith efforts to satisfy the hiring goal.
   (B)   Any contractors or subcontractors that fail to meet the hiring goal
shall be required to demonstrate to the Administrator’s satisfaction that the
contractor or subcontractor made good faith efforts to meet the hiring goal.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint an Administrator annually no
later than June 30th to serve as the Administrator for the city’s fiscal year
following such appointment or within 30 days of a vacancy that might arise
during any fiscal year. The foregoing not withstanding, an incumbent
Administrator shall serve until their successor has been appointed and
qualified. If, in the event of a vacancy, the Mayor fails to appoint a
replacement Administrator within the first 30 days following the effective date
of that vacancy, then the Board of Aldermen shall have the power to fill the
vacancy provided that the Board does so:
         (a)   Within 30 days from the date upon which the power to make the
appointment vested in the Board; or
         (b)   Prior to May 31st if the power to make the appointment vests in
the Board on or after May 1st.
      (2)   Should the Board fail to make the appointment during any 30 day
period it has to do so, or prior to May 31st if the power to make the
appointment vests in the Board on or after May 1st, then the power of
appointment shall revert to the Mayor. Thereafter, throughout the remainder of
the then current fiscal year, the power to make the appointment shall alternate
between the Mayor and the Board, at 30 day intervals, until an appointment is
made or until June 1st at which point in time the power to make the appointment
shall vest in the Mayor.
   (D)   The Mayor shall annually, prior to the adoption of the city’s budget
for the then next fiscal year and after consultation with the Administrator and
all relevant city department heads, establish a Good Jobs Administration Budget
for the then next fiscal year and the Mayor shall include a line item in his
annual budget submission to the Board of Aldermen sufficient to fund the Good
Jobs Administration Budget. If, during the fiscal year in which the Mayor
submits a given Good Jobs Administration Budget as part of his budget
submission, the city has received as liquidated damages, pursuant to its
contracts for covered projects, an amount greater than or equal to the Good
Jobs Administration Budget as then submitted by the Mayor, the city shall be
required to fund the Good Jobs Administration Budget as submitted by the Mayor
and approved by the Board of Aldermen. To the extent possible, the cost
required to oversee the implementation and enforcement of this subchapter for
each project shall be funded and paid for through each project.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 34.19 REFERRAL MECHANISM.
   (A)   No less than four weeks prior to the commencement of construction on
covered projects, the contractor shall meet with the Administrator and provide
the number of job positions to be created by the project by trade and the
qualifications by job title. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to
ensure that adequate job training is available to the extent necessary to
achieve the hiring goal and that screening and referral mechanisms are in place
so that contractors can access qualified residents. Additionally, the
Administrator shall designate a first-source referral program for the city.
   (B)   In the event a contractor or subcontractor cannot satisfy the hiring
goal through its own employees and union hiring halls, the contractor or
subcontractor shall next utilize the first source referral program in order to
satisfy the hiring goal. The contractor or subcontractor must wait five
business days after a request has been submitted before advertising the
position elsewhere.
   (C)   Qualifications required shall be only those relevant to the job. In
satisfying the hiring goal, the contractor and any subcontractor shall employ
all qualified persons referred by the first source referral program. The
contractor and any subcontractor must utilize the first source referral program
whenever its hiring needs increase and they are unable to comply with the
hiring goals.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 34.20 MONITORING.
   (A)   The owner for a covered project shall require all construction
contracts to comply with all provisions of this subchapter, and a copy of this
subchapter shall be included with all contracts with contractors and
subcontractors performing construction work on covered projects. This
subchapter must be a contractual obligation in all contracts.
   (B)   All contractors and subcontractors performing construction work on
covered projects shall submit to the Administrator weekly certified payroll
records within five working days of the end of each payroll period. The records
must show the person-hours on a craft-by-craft basis and identify the address,
social security number, hiring date, ethnicity, gender and trade (journeyperson
or apprentice) of all employees on the project. All reports must have an
original signature and be signed by an authorized officer or employee of the
company. Failure to comply with the provisions of this division (B) shall be
deemed by the Administrator to be a violation of this subchapter and shall be
subject to, and invoiced, liquidated damages on a weekly basis. Any willful
misrepresentation contained in the information requested pursuant to this
division (B) shall be deemed by the Administrator to be a violation of this
subchapter and shall be subject to, and invoiced, liquidated damages on a
weekly basis. The Administrator shall notify the City of Waterbury Department
of Finance upon any violation of this subchapter. No portion of any invoice
submitted by a contractor that is subject to liquidated damages shall be paid
by the city until such time as all liquidated damages relating to that invoice
have been paid to the city.
   (C)   Unless prohibited by federal, state or local law, all records in the
city’s possession shall be available for public inspection.
   (D)   The Administrator shall review all information provided pursuant to
division (B) hereof and submit monthly reports to the Liaison Committee and to
the Board of Aldermen summarizing the information.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 34.21 GOOD FAITH EFFORTS.
   (A)   Contractors shall be deemed to have made good faith efforts if they
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that they have done all of
the following:
      (1)   Utilize the first source referral program to help satisfy the
hiring goal;
      (2)   Notify the public in the city of the employment opportunities
available on covered projects. The notification shall comprise a notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city of employment opportunities,
written notice to construction unions, community organizations and city high
schools concerning same, and any other notice required by the Administrator.
Contractors shall maintain records of responses to the notices received
thereby. All notices must state that all qualified applicants will receive
consideration without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
The notice required by this division shall include a statement that the notice
is provided pursuant to this subchapter;
      (3)   Maintain a file on the job site of the names and addresses of each
worker referred by the first source referral program. The file shall indicate
what action was taken with respect to each referred person, and if the person
was not hired, the reasons therefore; provided, however, that this subchapter
shall not be construed as requiring contractors to hire any persons who do not
satisfy applicable job qualifications;
      (4)   Participate in State of Connecticut-approved local employment
training programs in the city’s area, or develop on-the-job training
opportunities and participate and assist in any association or employer-group
training program relevant to the contractor’s employment needs;
      (5)   Regularly review and evaluate their personnel and promotional
opportunities, encourage city residents to seek opportunities and establish a
program to monitor compliance with this subchapter; and
      (6)   Utilize other means of obtaining employees who are residents of the
city that are reasonably calculated to assist with achieving the hiring goals.
   (B)   Contractors shall provide the city with any documentation requested by
the Administrator in order to establish compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
§ 34.22 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS FOR COVERED SERVICES.
   (A)   This city shall include provisions in Chapter 38, entitled
“Centralized Procurement System,” of the Code of Waterbury mandating that each
contract for a covered project, as that term is defined herein, awarded
pursuant to
Chapter 38 include provisions addressing compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter by the contractor or contractors thereunder and by any subcontractor
or subcontractors performing work related to any such contract.
   (B)   Whenever provisions are included in a contract for a covered project
pursuant to division (A) of this section, they shall include provisions
establishing liquidated damages for the failure of any contractor or
subcontractor to comply with the provisions of this subchapter on a weekly
basis. The liquidated damages shall be based on an estimate of the cost the
city would incur in having to provide alternative employment opportunities, or
alternative economic assistance, to those residents who would have benefited by
the city’s investment in the covered project if they had been hired by the
contractor or subcontractor had they complied with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Whenever provisions regarding liquidated damages are included in a
contract for a covered project pursuant to division (B) of this section, that
contract shall, if applicable, also include provisions addressing the following
matters:
      (1)   Weekly compliance reviews by the Administrator for the purpose of
assessing compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or the lack
thereof;
      (2)   Requiring a separate certification of compliance by the
Administrator prior to the payment of any funds by the city under any such
contract;
      (3)   The weekly assessment and invoicing of liquidated damages per
noncompliant contractor or subcontractor while said contract is executory;
      (4)   No portion of any invoice submitted by a contractor that is subject
to liquidated damages shall be paid by the city until such time as all
liquidated damages relating to that invoice have been paid to the city.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
CHAPTER 35: PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Section
Part I: Powers and Duties of the Retirement Board
General Provisions
   
35.001   Establishment
   
35.002   Membership
   
35.003   Administration
   
35.004   Removal
   
35.005   Pension and Retirement Fund budget
Retirement Board
   
35.020   Staff and advisory services
   
35.021   Responsibilities of advisors
   
35.022   Professional standards for staff and advisors
   
35.023   Review and monitoring of the Retirement Board
Part II: Pension and Retirement Provisions
General Provisions
   
35.035   Definitions
   
35.036   Participation
   
35.037   Vesting
   
35.038   Participants' vested benefits
   
35.039   Survivor benefits upon death of a vested participant
   
35.040   Participant benefit preservation
   
35.041   Annual appropriations and contributions
Regular Participants
   
35.055   Contributions of regular participants
   
35.056   Pension benefits for regular participants
   
35.057   Disability retirement pension for regular participants
Firefighter and Police Participants
   
35.070   Contributions of police officers and firefighters
   
35.071   Pension benefits for firefighter and police participants
   
35.072   Death benefits for firefighter and police participants
   
35.073   Disability pensions for firefighter and police participants
Teacher Participants
   
35.085   Contributions of teacher participants
   
35.086   Pension benefits for teacher participants
Other Participants
   
35.100   Contributions of other participants
   
35.101   Pension benefit for other participants
Administrative Provisions
   
35.115   Manner of claiming retirement
   
35.116   Nonalienation
   
35.117   Appeals
   
35.118   Refund of participant contributions
   
35.119   Effect of payment under workers' compensation or heart and
hypertension
   
35.120   Reinstatement
   
35.121   Military service
   
35.122   Amendment
   
35.123   Continued payment to existing pensioners
   
35.124   Disability pensioners reports
   
35.125   Rehired retirees
   
35.126   Determination of disability
   
35.127   Tax qualification
   
35.128   Administrative error clause
   
35.129   Special limitations with respect to qualified domestic partners
PART I: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   As required by § 6C-10 of the Charter of the city there shall be a City of
Waterbury Retirement Board ("Retirement Board"), which, in addition to its
other responsibilities and authority to administer the City of Waterbury
Retirement System ("Retirement System"), shall, subject to the provisions
hereinafter set forth, be authorized to retain and discharge individuals or
entities to provide independent investment, legal (with the exception of
litigation counsel which shall remain the purview of the Corporation Counsel),
accounting, financial, actuarial, medical and such other advice and services
(all hereinafter "Advisory Services") as the Retirement Board may deem
necessary or appropriate for the proper operation and administration of the
Retirement System in accordance with the terms and provisions as set forth in
the Charter of the city, the General Statutes and Special Laws of the State of
Connecticut and ordinances (including, but not limited to the procurement
protocols of the city), applicable to the Retirement System, as amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.002 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   General. The Retirement Board shall consist of seven members appointed
by the Mayor subject to rejection by the Board of Aldermen, in accordance with
§ 6A-2 of the Charter of the city. All members of the Retirement Board shall be
voting members. The Retirement Board, by majority vote, shall choose a chair
and a secretary for the keeping of records as well as such other officers as it
shall determine and shall, establish procedures for assuring participation by
the public and, at the last meeting of the calendar year, submit a schedule of
meetings for the following calendar year. The requirements of §§ 6A-3, -5, -6,
-7, 8 and -9 pertaining to vacancies, residency requirements, prohibition of
dual appointments, conflict of interest, minority party representation and the
prohibition of compensation shall apply to the Retirement Board.
   (B)   Membership requirements.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint members in accordance with the following
requirements.
         (a)   No more than one member of the Retirement Board shall be a
currently employed management employee of the Department of Finance of the city
who shall serve for a two-year term.
         (b)   No more than one member shall be a representative of the
employees of the city who is currently employed by the city in a non-management
position and who shall be appointed for a four-year term.
         (c)   No more than one member shall be a member of the Board of
Aldermen of the city who shall be appointed for a two-year term.
         (d)   The remaining four members of the Retirement Board shall have
professional or business experience in the areas of investments, finance,
actuarial principles or retirement plans administration or similar
qualifications. Initially, two of the four members shall be appointed for a
term of four years and two members for a term of two years. Thereafter, as such
members' terms expire, the Mayor shall appoint each successor member for a
four-year term.
      (2)   However, in the case of the public employees and Aldermen their
terms shall expire upon their separation from employment with the city or
resignation or completion of the term of office.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Bylaws and regulations. The Retirement Board shall adopt, after a
public hearing thereon, bylaws and regulations not inconsistent with the law
and the provisions of this Charter; and shall do all things necessary toward
carrying out the purposes for which the Retirement System is created.
   (B)   Designation of Corporate Trustees and the like. The Retirement Board
may designate and appoint a corporate trustee or trustees and/or an insurance
company licensed by the State of Connecticut to manage the Retirement System
and the corporate trustee or trustees and/or an insurance company licensed by
the State of Connecticut shall have the right and power to invest and reinvest
Retirement Fund assets in accordance with the laws of the state governing the
investments of trust funds. The Retirement Board may deposit the whole or any
part of the funds of the Retirement System with any corporate trustee or
trustees and/or an insurance company licensed by the State of Connecticut for
management notwithstanding the fact that the Retirement System funds or part
thereof may at any time exceed in whole or in part the capital, surplus and
undivided profits of the corporate trustee or trustees and/or insurance company
licensed by the State of Connecticut.
      (1)   The Retirement Board shall not be liable for any negligence,
misfeasance or malfeasance on the part of the corporate trustee or trustees
and/or an insurance company licensed by the State of Connecticut in managing
the Retirement System, but shall be liable only in the event that the
Retirement Board has been found negligent in the selection and appointment of
the corporate trustee or trustees and/or an insurance company licensed by the
State of Connecticut.
      (2)   The corporate trustee or trustees and/or an insurance company
licensed by the State of Connecticut shall be paid from the funds of the
Retirement System reasonable compensation for their services rendered, for
managing, investing and reinvesting the assets of the Retirement System.
   (C)   Review of pertinent legislation. Under its own authority or upon the
request of either the Mayor, the Board of Aldermen, or the Director of the
Budget, the Retirement Board may examine any legislation proposed for adoption
either by the General Assembly of the State of Connecticut or by the Board of
Aldermen of the city affecting the Retirement System or the retirement of
persons under the provisions of this Charter and shall report to the Board of
Aldermen its conclusions as to the probable cost of the proposals contained in
such legislation and its recommendations as to the adoption thereof.
   (D)   Annual report.
      (1)   Requirements. The Retirement Board shall within 90 days of the
close of the city's fiscal year, file with the Mayor and Board of Aldermen an
annual report showing the financial condition of the Retirement System as of
the end of the last-completed fiscal year, setting forth the facts,
recommendations and data as may be of value to the members of the Retirement
System and the city; including, but not limited to a detail of expenses
comparing the same to the prior two fiscal years.
      (2)   Actuarial valuation. The Retirement Board shall have an actuarial
valuation made of the assets and liabilities of said Retirement System at least
once during each two-year period commencing on July 1, 2003 and, at other
times, in accordance with the time-frame set forth under state law or GASB
standards for when the valuation is advisable. However during the period
commencing on July 1, 2003 and ending on June 30, 2008 the actual valuation
shall be completed annually.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.004 REMOVAL.
   The Mayor may remove any appointed member of the Retirement Board for the
reasons set forth in § 6A-10 of the Charter of the city in accordance with the
rules of procedure set forth in this Code. In addition thereto the Mayor may
remove any appointed member of the Retirement Board for the unsatisfactory
performance of the duties of office by a member or members.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.005 PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND BUDGET.
   (A)   Preparation. On or before the thirtieth day prior to the date set by
the Mayor for submitting budget requests in any year, the Director of Finance,
shall provide the Retirement Board with the recommended budget for all of the
Advisory Service expenses to be incurred in connection with the administration
of the funds in the ensuing fiscal year.
   (B)   Submission. The Retirement Board shall submit its estimate of revenue
and expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year to the Mayor and the Budget
Director, as required by the Charter of the city, in addition, the Retirement
Board shall set forth its forecast for all expenses for advisory services to be
incurred in connection with the administration of the Retirement System in the
ensuing fiscal year.
   (C)   Required contents of submission. The submission of the Pension and
Retirement Fund budget estimates shall set forth and identify:
      (1)   The total amount anticipated to be required to pay for any advisory
service expenses in the ensuing year;
      (2)   The nature and source of all expenses;
      (3)   The source of revenue which are anticipated to be used to pay the
expenses;
      (4)   The extent to which any of the foregoing differs from both the
current and prior years' budget and actual expenses; and
      (5)   Any requirements set forth in § 9B-1(a) of the Charter of the city.
   (D)   Budgetary authority of the Retirement Board.
      (1)   The Retirement Board shall have sole authority to establish its
budget each year, providing, however, that none of its expenses shall be paid
from the city's General Fund except within the amounts appropriated by the
Board of Aldermen therefor.
      (2)   Additionally, except as expressly required to fulfill the duties of
the Director of Finance, plan administrator and/or the Retirement Board,
pursuant to the standard of care set forth in §
35.023 below, the cumulative amount of any administrative expenses which are to
be paid from the income of the funds in any fiscal year shall not exceed the
total of the expenses reflected in the Director of Finance's recommended
budget, or 1% of the carrying value of the funds as of the first day of, the
year, whichever is less.
   (E)   Determination by the Retirement Board regarding a minimal level of
appropriation. The Mayor's proposed budget as submitted pursuant to § 9B-2(a)
of the Charter of the city shall include levels of appropriation necessary to
fulfill the obligations of the city pertaining to the Pension and Retirement
Fund. The Retirement Board shall render a determination regarding the level of
minimal appropriation, based upon actuarial recommended levels, prior to the
submission of the budget to the Board of Aldermen by the Mayor. The Board may
also estimate the level of appropriation necessary to meet the expenses of the
Board in the performance of its duties during the year.
   (F)   Annual contribution by the city. The city shall pay annually into the
Pension and Retirement Fund:
      (1)   The proportion of the pay of all members employed by the city as
may be determined from time to time by the Retirement Board based on sound
actuarial principles; and
      (2)   The appropriate funds necessary to reduce the unfunded liability of
the Retirement System for a period of five fiscal years commencing with fiscal
year 2003 - 2004. The contribution shall be referred to as the "Minimum Fixed
Contribution." Commencing in fiscal year 2008 - 2009, the city's contribution
shall be based on a 30-year flat dollar amortization of the unfunded accrued
liability and investment gains or losses will be smoothed, as the term is
applied by actuaries to the nonrecognition of investment losses and gains, over
a five-year period.
   (G)   Minimum fixed contribution. The minimum fixed contribution shall be
determined in accordance with the methodology, techniques and assumptions
employed by the actuaries in establishing the recommended minimum fixed
contribution to the pension fund as set forth by the Waterbury Financial
Planning and Assistance Board (hereinafter referred to as "WFPAB") in its
report entitled "Recommendations on the City of Waterbury's Unfunded Pension
Liability" dated March 2003.
      (1)   The methodology, techniques and assumptions utilized by the WFPAB
are set forth in the Actuarial Valuation Report prepared by Hooker & Holcombe,
Inc., dated July 1, 2002.
      (2)   The two aforementioned reports shall be filed with the engrossed
version of this subchapter at the office of the City Clerk.
   (H)   Annual actuarial certification of the minimum fixed contribution.
      (1)   The minimum fixed contribution shall be certified by a member of
the American Academy of Actuaries prior to submission of the budget by the
Mayor in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the city.
      (2)   Furthermore, said contribution shall be in accordance with the
statement of investment policies and objectives established by the Retirement
Board and adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (I)   Statement of investment policies and objectives; Aldermanic approval.
      (1)   The Retirement Board shall propose a statement of investment
policies and objectives for the Retirement System, which shall include, without
limitation, the following:
         (a)   The desired rate of return for the fund as a whole;
         (b)   The desired rate of return and acceptable levels of risk for
each asset class within the fund;
         (c)   The asset allocation goals for the fund;
         (d)   The guidelines which will apply to the selection and retention
of custodians and investment managers for the fund; and
         (e)   Information on the types of reports that will be used to
evaluate investment performance for the fund.
      (2)   The Retirement Board shall review the statements, and either
recommend changes or reaffirm acceptance thereof, at least once each year. The
statement and any changes thereto shall be approved by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
RETIREMENT BOARD
§ 35.020 STAFF AND ADVISORY SERVICES.
   (A)   Payment of advisory services. The payment of all advisory services
expenses, as set forth in the forecast, shall be paid from the Retirement
System Trust Fund.
   (B)   Selection of advisory services.
      (1)   The selection of individuals or entities to provide any of the
advisory services to the Retirement Board for the retirement system shall be
governed by the standards of care exercised by fiduciaries acting with the
care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing
that a prudent man acting in like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing statement, the Retirement
Board shall act solely in the interest of and for the purposes of providing
benefits to the participants and beneficiaries of the Retirement System and not
in their own self-interests.
      (2)   With respect to the hiring of counsel the Retirement Board shall
consult with and obtain the consent of the Corporation Counsel, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld. In the event the Corporation Counsel fails
to consent to the choice of counsel, the Retirement Board shall be notified in
writing by the Corporation Counsel who shall set forth the reasons and cause
for not consenting. Thereafter, the Retirement Board shall then submit another
name to the Corporation Counsel until both parties are satisfied with the
hiring decision.
   (C)   Conflict of interest. No member of the Retirement Board shall have a
personal or financial interest in any provider of advisory services as the
interests may be governed by this Code or by regulation of the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.021 RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADVISORS.
   (A)   Any person or entity which is contracted to invest, provide investment
advice, or direct or manage the investment of any assets of the retirement
system shall be and shall specifically acknowledge in writing that such advisor
is:
      (1)   A fiduciary of the assets of the retirement system for which the
advisor has agreed to provide such services;
      (2)   Registered as an investment company or investment advisor in good
standing under the Investment Company and Advisor Acts of 1940, as amended, and
thus exempt from the registration; and
      (3)   The advisor will comply with all applicable laws and regulations
governing the investment of the assets of the retirement system.
   (B)   Any duty or responsibility which is imposed or otherwise pertains to
the investment of assets of any retirement fund shall apply, without
limitation, to the selection, acquisition, retention and disposition of each
security or other investment vehicle which is, or is to be, held by the
retirement system; provided, however, that any investment decision respecting
individual assets shall be evaluated not in isolation, but in context of the
entire portfolio of the fund of which they constitute a part and as a portion
of an overall investment strategy for the fund which is consistent with the
investment policy adopted by the Retirement Board. The Retirement Board shall
not be liable for any specific investment which has been made by any investment
advisor, custodian or other fiduciary as long as the person or entity is
selected, appointed and retained, and the performance of the person or entity
is periodically reviewed, and any assets of the fund for which the same is
delegated investment responsibility are allocated in accordance with the
investment policy adopted by the Retirement Board.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.022 PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS FOR STAFF AND ADVISORS.
   (A)   Standards for discharging responsibilities. The Director of Finance,
plan administrator, advisors and the Retirement Board shall be fiduciaries of
the retirement system and, in that capacity, shall fulfill their duties
hereunder with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances
then prevailing that a prudent person acting in like capacity and familiar with
such matters would then use in the conduct of an enterprise of like character
and purpose. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Director of
Finance, plan administrator, advisers and the Retirement Board shall discharge
their duties:
      (1)   In the interests of, and for the purpose of providing benefits to,
participants and beneficiaries of the applicable fund or plan consistent with
the other provisions of this chapter and applicable law;
      (2)   Impartially, taking into consideration any differing interests of
various participants and beneficiaries within each fund and plan;
      (3)   By diversifying the investments of the assets of the funds so as to
minimize the risk of large losses unless under the circumstances it is clearly
prudent not to do so;
      (4)   Except to the extent they may be paid by the city as contemplated
by divisions (B)(7) and (9) below, incurring and paying all reasonable and
appropriate expenses of administering the funds and plans; and
      (5)   In accordance with a good faith interpretation of the terms of this
Code and other applicable law.
   (B)   Consideration of investment circumstances. Circumstances which shall
be considered by the Director of Finance, Retirement Board and any other
fiduciaries when investing and managing any funds' assets also shall include,
but not be limited to the following, to the extent relevant thereto:
      (1)   General economic conditions;
      (2)   The possible effect of inflation or deflation;
      (3)   The expected tax consequences, if any, of investment decisions,
strategies and distributions;
      (4)   The role that each investment or course of action plays within a
fund's overall portfolio, which, except as otherwise provided in this section,
may include financial assets, interests in closely held enterprises, tangible
and intangible personal property and real property;
      (5)   The expected total return from income and the appreciation of
capital;
      (6)   Related trusts and other income and resources of the participants
and beneficiaries;
      (7)   Needs for liquidity, regularity of income and preservation or
appreciation of capital;
      (8)   An asset's special relationship or special value, if any, to the
purposes of the fund;
      (9)   The size and actuarial funding status of the fund; and
      (10)   The nature and estimated duration of the fund.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 35.023 REVIEW AND MONITORING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD.
   The acts and actions of the Retirement Board shall be subject to the
jurisdiction and powers of the WFPAB, as set forth in Special Act 01-01. The
jurisdiction of the WFPAB may be superior to but shall not be exercised in lieu
of any of the powers and duties of the Financial and Audit Review Commission of
the city (hereinafter referred to as "FARC"), as set forth in the Charter of
the city, unless a power exercised by WFPAB expressly overrides the action of
local authorities.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
PART II: PENSION AND RETIREMENT PROVISIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following words and phrases as used in the Pension and Retirement System
(hereinafter “Retirement System”) shall have the following meanings:
   ACCRUED BENEFIT. The participant’s pension benefit under this retirement
system as determined pursuant to the applicable provisions set forth in the
retirement system.
   ACTUAL EMPLOYMENT. The time during which a participant is in pay status.
   BASE PAY. The salary or wages of a participant eligible for participation
under the retirement system for services with the city, excluding overtime,
longevity, severance payments and other special payments or allowances. BASE
PAY shall be determined prior to any reduction thereto for:
      (1)   Elective deferrals from pay pursuant to 26 U.S.C. §§ 403(b) or 457
(b);
      (2)   Pretax contributions by a participant to a 26 U.S.C. § 125
“cafeteria” plan or 26 U.S.C. § 132(f)(4) qualified transportation fringe
benefit plan, which the participant could have elected to receive in cash; or
      (3)   Participant contributions to the plan.
   CIVIL UNION. A civil union as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 46b-38aa or a
legal union in another jurisdiction that is substantially equal to a civil
union as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 46b-38aa.
   DEPENDENT. A child or children born to or adopted by the participant, under
the age of 18, or under the age of 21 if a full-time student, as of the
participant’s death or normal retirement age.
   FINAL AVERAGE BASE PAY. A participant’s base pay for the 104 weeks
immediately preceding retirement or separation from actual employment, divided
by two.
   FIREFIGHTER AND POLICE PARTICIPANTS. Firefighters and police officers of the
city who meet all eligibility requirements of the provisions of the retirement
system.
   FULL-TIME. An individual who is regularly employed by the city for at least
35 hours per week.
   IN PAY STATUS. Receiving compensation (e.g. wages, worker’s compensation, or
other paid leaves) from the city.
   IN THE LINE OF DUTY. In the course of employment by the city as a police
officer or firefighter and while performing the essential functions of the job
and responding to an emergency or otherwise engaged in hazardous duties of a
nature unique to police or fire functions, all as determined by the Retirement
Board.
   NON-WORK-RELATED DISABILITY. The total and permanent inability of a
participant with ten or more years of service (determined at the time that the
participant ceases to be in pay status) to  perform all of the essential
functions of the participant’s current job and the functions of any other job
offered to the participant by the city in its absolute discretion which has a
base pay rate of at least 75% of the participant’s current job, by reason of
any medically determined physical or mental impairment caused by or resulting
from a non-work-related accident, injury or illness; provided, the accident,
injury or illness shall not have been intentionally inflicted by the
participant or caused by the gross negligence of the participant. The
Retirement Board may require that any individual receiving a disability benefit
hereunder submit to medical examination at any reasonable time prior to the
participant’s normal retirement date in accordance with §
35.115 and, should it be determined that the participant is no longer disabled,
as herein defined, the disability benefit hereunder of the participant shall
cease, whereupon the participant shall be entitled to a vested benefit
hereunder; provided that, the participant had completed ten years of service at
the time his disability benefit commenced.
   NORMAL RETIREMENT AGE. The day when a participant satisfies the earliest of:
      (1)   A participant’s completion of 25 years of service and attainment of
age 55;
      (2)   A participant’s completion of 15 years of service and attainment of
age 65;
      (3)   A participant’s completion of 25 years of service as a full-time
firefighter or police officer with the city, regardless of age; or
      (4)   A participant’s completion of 25 years of service or more as a
teacher in the public schools of the city, regardless of age.
   NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE. The first day of the month following the later of a
participant’s normal retirement age or the participant’s termination of service
with the city.
   OTHER PARTICIPANT. Certain non-bargaining participants, elected officials
and appointed officials of the city who were eligible to participate in the
retirement system and who did participate in the retirement system as of June
30, 2003, or who thereafter become a participant in the retirement system by
action of the Board of Aldermen.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person in the service of the city who is eligible to
participate in the retirement system pursuant to its provisions and who is
actually participating hereunder.
   PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTION. The contributions required to be made by a
participant pursuant to the applicable provisions of the retirement system, all
of which are considered to be “pickup contributions” made on a pre-tax basis
pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 414(h)(2). In no event shall a participant have the
option to receive the amount of such participant contribution directly as part
of his pay instead of having it paid by the city to the retirement fund.
   PENSION. The payments made in accordance with the provisions of the
Retirement System by reason of the retirement or termination of service of a
participant, including pension benefits for service prior to July 1, 2003, but
not including any refund of participant contributions from the retirement
system.
   PENSIONER. The recipient of pension benefits pursuant to the retirement
system, including a spouse, qualified domestic partner or dependent entitled to
the benefits.
   PLAN LIMITATION YEAR. Each fiscal year ending June 30. The definition of
PLAN LIMITATION YEAR shall apply wherever its use may exist in the ordinance.
   QUALIFIED DOMESTIC PARTNER. An individual who is a party to a civil union
with the participant, as evidenced by a valid civil union certificate or
affidavit described in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 46b-38kk, or proves to the Board by
adequate documentation that he or she is a domestic partner of the participant
under a legal union in another jurisdiction that is substantially equal to a
civil union as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 46b-38aa, in either case, at the
earlier of the time of the participant’s death or the participant’s normal
retirement date.
   REGULAR INTEREST. An interest rate that shall be reviewed and determined
annually by the Retirement Board through benchmarking against five year U.S.
Treasury Bonds as of July 1 of each year, but in no event to exceed 3% per
annum.
   REGULAR PARTICIPANT. A person in the service of the city covered by this
retirement system who is not a teacher participant, other participant,
firefighter or police participant, and who is neither employed by the city
under a grant nor a Social Security Act employee.
   RETIREMENT BOARD or BOARD. The Board created to administer the retirement
system pursuant to this chapter and any rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder.
   RETIREMENT FUND. The fund and the income thereon derived from contributions
made as provided in the retirement system.
   RETIREMENT SYSTEM. The plan for retirement of participants as set forth in
this chapter, as it may hereafter be amended. To the extent that the terms of
this chapter are clearly inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining
agreement applicable to a participant hereunder, the terms of the collective
bargaining agreement shall govern.
   SOCIAL SECURITY ACT EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by the city with
respect to whom actual Social Security contributions are being made by the city
and the individual.
   SPOUSE. The participant’s legal spouse, including an individual lawfully
married to a participant (i) of a different sex, and (ii) of the same sex in a
state that recognizes such marriage, as evidenced by a valid marriage
certificate, at the earlier of the time of the participant’s death or the
participant’s normal retirement date. For purposes of this determination,
“marriage” includes, without limitation, a marriage between an individual and a
participant (i) of a different sex, and (ii) of the same sex that was validly
entered into in a state whose laws authorize the marriage of two individuals of
the same sex even if the married couple is domiciled in a state that does not
recognize the validity of same-sex marriages. For the avoidance of doubt, the
term SPOUSE does not include individuals (whether of the opposite sex or the
same sex) who have entered into a registered domestic partnership, civil union,
or other similar formal relationship recognized under state law that is not
denominated as a marriage under the laws of that state, and the term “marriage”
does not include such formal relationships.
   SURVIVOR BENEFIT. The pension benefit payable to a surviving spouse,
qualified domestic partner or dependent of a participant pursuant to the
provisions of the retirement system.
   TEACHER PARTICIPANT. A certified professional individual employed by the
Board of Education of the city in a position requiring a teaching or special
services certificate hired by the city on or before March 1, 1970.
   TERMINATION OF SERVICE. The date the employee/employer relationship ceases
and the employee no longer works for the City of Waterbury.
   TOTAL AND PERMANENT DISABILITY. A condition that is fixed and lasting;
unchanging and not expected to improve. An impairment of mental or physical
faculties that will last an indeterminable period, indefinitely preventing the
affected participant from performing the essential functions of his or her job,
or, where applicable, any other job in the national economy, as determined
pursuant to §
35.126.
   WORKERS’ COMPENSATION. Benefits payable to an employee pursuant to Conn.
Gen. Stat. Chapter 568. For purposes of this chapter, WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
includes benefits paid to an employee for heart and hypertension.
   WORK-RELATED DISABILITY. The total and permanent inability of a participant
with at least five years of service, determined at the time that the
participant ceases to be in pay status, to perform all of the essential
functions of the participant’s current job, and the functions of any other job
offered to the participant by the city in its absolute discretion which has a
base pay rate of at least 75% of the participant’s current job, by reason of
any medically determinable physical or mental impairment caused by or resulting
from a work-related accident, injury or illness; provided, the accident, injury
or illness shall not have been intentionally inflicted by the participant or
caused by the gross negligence of the participant. The Retirement Board may
require that any individual receiving a disability benefit hereunder submit to
medical examination at any reasonable time prior to the participant’s normal
retirement date in accordance with §
35.115 and, should it be determined that the participant is no longer disabled
as herein defined, the disability benefit hereunder of the participant shall
cease, whereupon the participant shall be entitled to a vested benefit
hereunder, provided that the participant had completed ten years of service at
the time his disability benefit commenced.
   YEARS OF SERVICE.
      (1)   The initial 12 months of a participant’s full-time employment with
the city and each anniversary thereof, during which a participant paid his
participant contributions and was in pay status; provided however, that, a
participant shall be credited with a year of service during the participant’s
last year of employment if the participant completes at least eight months of
service.
      (2)   Time spent as a member of any of the various boards of the city or
in any capacity rendering incidental or part-time service to the city shall not
be included in determining YEARS OF SERVICE for a participant’s normal
retirement date nor YEARS OF SERVICE for determining a participant’s accrued
benefits. In computing YEARS OF SERVICE to determine eligibility of teacher
participants for retirement and pension benefits under the retirement system,
no year shall be counted as a year of service unless the teacher participant
has been in actual employment by the city for at least 30 weeks during such
year.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011; Ord. passed 3-24-2014)
§ 35.036 PARTICIPATION.
   All participants who are participating in the retirement system as of June
30, 2003 shall continue as participants subject to the provisions of the
retirement system. Any person who shall be employed by the city on or after
July 1, 2003 on a full-time basis, and who is not participating in another
retirement plan maintained by the city intended by the city to constitute a
retirement system, as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 3121(b)(7)(F) for purposes of
satisfying the city’s FICA obligation for the members, shall, as a condition of
employment, on the first day of full-time employment with the city, provided
the employee is in pay status, be required to participate in the retirement
system in accordance with its terms, and the participation shall be a condition
of continued employment with the city. However, any person who has passed his
fiftieth birthday when entering the service of the city shall not be required
to participate, but the person may elect on a one-time irrevocable basis within
the first 30 days of service to participate in the retirement system and
failing to so elect, such person shall not thereafter be eligible to
participate. FICA is payable up through the day the employee makes an election
to participate in the Retirement System. Participation shall be effective
retroactive to the employee’s date of hire. Once the election is made, the
employee will pay required pension contributions retroactive to his or her
participation date.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.037 VESTING.
   A participant shall become vested in his accrued benefit under the
retirement system only after completion of ten years of service (hereinafter
“vested benefits”). Termination of service with the city prior to completion of
ten years of service shall result in complete forfeiture of a participant’s
accrued benefit, unless otherwise expressly provided by provisions of the
retirement system. A participant shall, however, always have a vested right to
his or her participant contributions made to the retirement system.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.038 PARTICIPANTS' VESTED BENEFITS.
   A participant, other than a teacher participant, with a vested benefit who
terminates service with the city prior to normal retirement date shall be
entitled to a pension based upon 2% for each year of service completed after
June 30, 2003 multiplied by the participant’s final average base pay. Pension
benefits for years of service completed prior to July 1, 2003 shall be
determined in accordance with the retirement system provisions in effect on
June 30, 2003 based on the participant’s years of service as of June 30, 2003,
the benefit formula applicable to the participant on June 30, 2003, and on the
participant’s final average base pay prior to his or her termination of
service. The vested benefit shall be payable as a monthly annuity for the
participant’s life commencing on the first day of the month following the date
the participant would have attained his normal retirement age if the
participant had remained employed by the city, unless the participant elects in
accordance with rules established by the Retirement Board to receive such
vested benefit, as applicable, in the form of (i) a joint and 50% spousal
survivor annuity or joint and 100% spousal survivor annuity, (ii) a joint and
50% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity or joint and 100% qualified
domestic partner survivor annuity, or (iii) such other forms of payment as may
be established by the Retirement Board, in all cases with appropriate
adjustment for actuarial equivalency.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.039 SURVIVOR BENEFITS UPON DEATH OF A VESTED PARTICIPANT.
   (A)   If a former or active participant with a vested benefit dies before
his or her normal retirement date and is legally married at the time of the
participant’s death, then the participant’s spouse shall be entitled to a
survivor spousal pension. The survivor spousal pension benefit, except as
otherwise provided for firefighter and police participants, will be the
actuarial equivalent of the benefit to which the surviving spouse would have
been entitled if the participant had retired or terminated service with the
city on the day before his or her death and elected his or her vested benefit
to be paid in the form of a joint and 50% spousal survivor annuity, commencing
at the participant’s normal retirement date. The surviving spouse of a
participant shall have an option to elect commencement of the joint and 50%
spousal survivor annuity pension benefit prior to the participant’s normal
retirement date, subject to appropriate actuarial adjustment for early
commencement. If a participant leaves no spouse surviving at the time of death,
then a survivor pension benefit based on the participant’s vested benefit shall
be payable monthly to the legally appointed guardian of any dependent or
dependents of the deceased participant until the youngest child is no longer
considered a dependent, for the use and benefit of the dependent or dependents,
in an actuarially equivalent amount, determined as if the deceased participant
had been married at the time of his or her death to a spouse of the same age,
had retired or terminated service with the city on the day before his or her
death, and had elected to have his or her vested benefit paid in the form of a
joint and 50% spousal survivor annuity, actuarially adjusted (in the case of
death before the participant’s normal retirement date) as, if the surviving
spouse had elected early commencement.
   (B)   If a former or active participant with a vested benefit dies before
his or her normal retirement date and is a party to a civil union at the time
of the participant’s death, then the participant’s qualified domestic partner
shall be entitled to a survivor qualified domestic partner pension. The
survivor qualified domestic partner pension benefit, except as otherwise
provided for firefighter and police participants, will be the actuarial
equivalent of the benefit to which the surviving qualified domestic partner
would have been entitled if the participant had retired or terminated service
with the city on the day before his or her death and elected his or her vested
benefit to be paid in the form of a joint and 50% qualified domestic partner
survivor annuity, commencing at the participant’s normal retirement date. The
surviving qualified domestic partner of a participant shall have an option to
elect commencement of the joint and 50% qualified domestic partner survivor
annuity pension benefit prior to the participant’s normal retirement date,
subject to appropriate actuarial adjustment for early commencement. If a
participant leaves no qualified domestic partner surviving at the time of
death, then a survivor pension benefit based on the participant’s vested
benefit shall be payable monthly to the legally appointed guardian of any
dependent or dependents of the deceased participant until the youngest child is
no longer considered a dependent, for the use and benefit of the dependent or
dependents, in an actuarially equivalent amount determined as if the deceased
participant had been a party to a civil union at the time of his or her death
to a qualified domestic partner of the same age, had retired or terminated
service with the city on the day before his or her death, and had elected to
have his or her vested benefit paid in the form of a joint and 50% qualified
domestic partner survivor annuity, actuarially adjusted (in the case of death
before the participant’s normal retirement date) as if the surviving qualified
domestic partner had elected early commencement.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.040 PARTICIPANT BENEFIT PRESERVATION.
   In no event shall any participant terminating after June 30, 2003 under the
retirement system receive a pension benefit from the retirement system in an
amount which is less than the pension benefit that the participant would have
received if the participant had retired or separated from service on June 30,
2001.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.041 ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   For the city’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, and for each fiscal year of
the city thereafter, the city shall appropriate funds, in an amount sufficient
to meet the actuarially required contribution and shall contribute the amounts
to the employee retirement plan, all as required by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-374c.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
REGULAR PARTICIPANTS
§ 35.055 CONTRIBUTIONS OF REGULAR PARTICIPANTS.
   The rate of participant contributions to be made by a regular participant to
the retirement system shall be 7.5% of base pay. Participant contributions by
regular participants to the retirement system are mandatory as a condition of
participation and accrual of benefits under the retirement system by a regular
participant. No participant contributions shall be required after a regular
participant becomes entitled to the maximum pension benefit under the
retirement system.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.056 PENSION BENEFITS FOR REGULAR PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   Any regular participant who has attained normal retirement age shall
be eligible to retire and receive a pension benefit commencing on or after the
regular participant’s normal retirement date. The pension benefit for a regular
participant shall be computed on the basis of 2% for each year of service
completed after June 30, 2003 multiplied by the regular participant’s final
average base pay. Regular participants’ pension benefit for years of service
completed prior to July 1, 2003 shall be determined in accordance with the
retirement system provisions in effect on June 30, 2003. In no event shall the
pension benefit for any regular participant exceed 70% of final average base
pay. The pension benefit shall be paid in the form of a life annuity commencing
at normal retirement date unless a regular participant elects to receive his
accrued benefit, as applicable, in the form of (i) a joint and 50% spousal
survivor annuity or joint and 100% spousal survivor annuity, (ii) a joint and
50% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity or joint and 100% qualified
domestic partner survivor annuity, or (iii) such other form of payment as may
be established by the Retirement Board, in all cases with appropriate
adjustment for actuarial equivalency.
   (B)   The pension shall be based upon the base pay of the regular
participant regardless of any temporary reduction thereof or any non-payment on
account of illness or other temporary absence.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.057 DISABILITY RETIREMENT PENSION FOR REGULAR PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   Any regular participant who incurs a non-work-related disability or a
work-related disability, as determined pursuant to §
35.126, shall be entitled to a disability pension equal to the greater of:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent of the participant’s final average base pay; or
      (2)   The participant’s accrued benefit on the date of the participant’s
separation from service with the city, provided the application for disability
is filed with the Pension and Benefits Office prior to termination of service.
   (B)   Any regular participant who incurs a work-related disability, as
determined pursuant to §
35.126 which renders such participant unable to perform any gainful economic
activity which may exist in the national economy shall be entitled to a
disability pension equal to the greater of:
      (1)   Fifty percent of the participant’s final average base pay; or
      (2)   The participant’s accrued benefit on the date of the participant’s
separation from service with the city, provided the application for disability
is filed with the Pension and Benefits Office prior to termination of service.
   (C)   The disability pension benefit shall be payable on the first day of
the month following the participant’s termination with the city as a result of
the disability.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
FIREFIGHTER AND POLICE PARTICIPANTS
§ 35.070 CONTRIBUTIONS OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   The rate of participant contribution to be made by a firefighter or police
participant to the retirement system shall be 9.5% of base pay plus holiday pay
and regular firefighters’ drivers’ pay, if applicable. Participant
contributions by police officers and firefighters to the retirement system are
mandatory as a condition of participation and accrual of benefits under the
retirement system. No participant contributions shall be required after a
firefighter or police participant becomes entitled to the maximum pension
benefit under the retirement system.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.071 PENSION BENEFITS FOR FIREFIGHTER AND POLICE PARTICIPANTS.
   Any firefighter or police participant who has attained normal retirement age
shall be eligible to retire and receive a pension benefit commencing on or
after the firefighter or police participant’s normal retirement date. The
pension benefit for a firefighter and police participant shall be computed on
the basis of 2% for each year of service completed after June 30, 2003,
multiplied by the participant’s final average base pay. Firefighter or police
participants’ pension benefits for years of service completed prior to July 1,
2003 shall be determined in accordance with the retirement system provisions in
effect on June 30, 2003. In no event shall any firefighter or police
participant pension benefit exceed 70% of final average base pay. For purposes
of determining a firefighter or police participant’s final average base pay,
his base pay shall include holiday pay plus, for firefighters’ drivers’ pay, if
applicable. The pension benefit shall be paid in the form of a life annuity at
normal retirement date, unless a firefighter or police participant elects to
receive his or her accrued benefit, as applicable, in the form of (i) a joint
and 50% spousal survivor annuity or joint and 100% spousal survivor annuity,
(ii) a joint and 50% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity or joint and
100% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity, or (iii) such other form of
payment as may be established by the Retirement Board, in all cases with
appropriate adjustment for actuarial equivalency. The pension shall be based
upon the base pay of the firefighter or police participant regardless of any
temporary reduction thereof or any non-payment on account of illness or other
temporary absence.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.072 DEATH BENEFITS FOR FIREFIGHTER AND POLICE PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   The spouse, qualified domestic partner or other dependent of any
firefighter or police participant who has completed at least five years of
service with either department and who dies other than in the line of duty from
any cause shall be entitled to a pension based upon the deceased participant’s
accrued benefit under the retirement system in the amount that would have been
payable to the deceased participant if the participant had elected a joint and
100% spousal survivor benefit or joint and 100% qualified domestic partner
survivor benefit, as the case may be, on the day before the participant’s
death. Payments to the spouse or qualified domestic partner, as the case may
be, shall commence as of the participant’s normal retirement date. The
participant’s spouse or qualified domestic partner, as the case may be, shall
have the right to request early commencement of the accrued benefit at any time
prior to the normal retirement date, subject to actuarial reduction for early
commencement of payments. In the event that a deceased firefighter or police
participant leaves no spouse or qualified domestic partner, as the case may be,
surviving, a survivor pension benefit based on the firefighter or police
participant’s accrued benefit shall be payable monthly to the legally appointed
guardian of any surviving dependent or dependents of the deceased firefighter
or police participant until the youngest child is no longer considered a
dependent, for the use and benefit of the dependent or dependents, in an
actuarially equivalent amount determined as if the deceased firefighter or
police participant had been married or a party to a civil union, as the case
may be, at the time of his death to a spouse or qualified domestic partner, as
the case may be, of the same age, had retired or terminated service with the
city on the day before his or her death, and had elected to have his or her
vested benefit paid in the form of a joint and 50% spousal survivor annuity or
joint and 50% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity, as the case may be,
actuarially adjusted (in the case of death before the firefighter or police
participant’s normal retirement date) as if the surviving spouse or qualified
domestic partner, as the case may be, had elected early commencement.
   (B)   (1)   In the event of the death of a firefighter or police participant
in the line of duty, regardless of length of service, the spouse or qualified
domestic partner, as the case may be, of the firefighter or police participant
shall be entitled to receive a pension in an amount equal to the greater of:
         (a)   The participant’s accrued benefit at the time of the
participant’s death determined as if the participant had retired or terminated
service with the city and elected to receive benefits in the form of a joint
and 100% spousal survivor annuity or a joint and 100% qualified domestic
partner survivor annuity, as the case may be, on the day before the
participant’s death; or
         (b)   A pension benefit equal to 50% of the firefighter or police
participant’s final average base pay payable in the form of an actuarially
equivalent joint and 100% spousal survivor annuity or joint and 100% qualified
domestic partner survivor annuity, as the case may be, in either case payable
immediately, but without actuarial reduction for early commencement.
      (2)   In the event that a deceased firefighter or police participant
leaves no spouse or qualified domestic partner, as the case may be, surviving,
a survivor pension benefit based on the firefighter or police participant’s
accrued benefit shall be payable monthly to the legally appointed guardian of
any surviving dependent or dependents of the deceased firefighter or police
participant until the youngest child is no longer considered a dependent, for
the use and benefit of the dependent or dependents, in an actuarially
equivalent amount determined as if the deceased firefighter or police
participant had been married or a party to a civil union, as the case may be,
at the time of his death to a spouse or qualified domestic partner, as the case
may be, of the same age, had retired or terminated service with the city on the
day before his or her death, and had elected to have his or her vested benefit
paid in the form of a joint and 50% spousal survivor annuity or joint and 50%
qualified domestic partner survivor annuity, as the case may be, actuarially
adjusted (in the case of death before the firefighter or police participant’s
normal retirement date) as if the surviving spouse or qualified domestic
partner, as the case may be, had elected early commencement.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.073 DISABILITY PENSIONS FOR FIREFIGHTER AND POLICE PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   Any firefighter or police participant who incurs a non work-related
disability, as determined pursuant to §
35.126, shall be entitled to a pension equal to the greater of:
      (1)   The participant’s accrued benefit on the date of the participant’s
disability; or
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the final average base pay, provided the
disability application is filed with the Pension and Benefits Office prior to
the termination of service.
   (B)   Any firefighter or police participant who incurs a work-related
disability, as determined pursuant to §
35.126, shall be entitled to receive a pension equal to the greater of:
      (1)   The participant’s accrued benefit at the time of the work-related
disability; or
      (2)   Fifty percent of the participant’s final average base pay, provided
the disability application is filed with the Pension and Benefits Office prior
to the termination of service.
   (C)   (1)   Any firefighter or police participant who incurs a work-related
disability in the line of duty, as determined pursuant to §
35.126, regardless of the participant’s years of service, shall be entitled to
a pension in an amount equal to the greater of:
         (a)   The firefighter or police participant’s accrued benefit at the
time of the work-related disability; or
         (b)   Fifty percent of the firefighter or police participant’s final
average base pay, regardless of the participant’s years of service, provided
the disability application is filed with the Pension and Benefits Office prior
to the termination of service.
      (2)   In the event a firefighter or police participant becomes disabled
in the line of duty with less than 104 weeks of service, his or her final
average base pay shall be determined over the actual period of service as a
firefighter or police participant.
   (D)   The disability pension benefit shall be payable on the first day of
the month following the participant’s termination of service with the city as
the result of the disability.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
TEACHER PARTICIPANTS
§ 35.085 CONTRIBUTIONS OF TEACHER PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   The rate of participant contributions to be made by a teacher
participant to the retirement system shall be 1% of a teacher participant’s
base pay plus any severance pay.
   (B)   Except as provided in § 35.086, teacher participants hired after March
1, 1970 participate in the State Teacher’s Retirement System, and therefore are
not eligible to participate in the Retirement System.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.086 PENSION BENEFITS FOR TEACHER PARTICIPANTS.
   The pension for an eligible teacher participant who has retired from service
under the retirement system shall be any annuity for life, in an amount
determined as 0.6% of the teacher participant’s annual base pay received during
the three years immediately preceding normal retirement date plus severance
pay, divided by three for each completed year of service.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
§ 35.100 CONTRIBUTIONS OF OTHER PARTICIPANTS.
   The rate of participant contributions to be made by an other participant to
the retirement system shall be 7.5% of base pay. Participant contributions by
other participants to the retirement system are mandatory as a condition of
participation and accrual of benefits under the retirement system. No
participant contributions shall be required after an other participant becomes
entitled to the maximum pension benefit under the retirement system.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.101 PENSION BENEFIT FOR OTHER PARTICIPANTS.
   Other participants shall be entitled to retire and receive a pension benefit
based upon their accrued benefit upon attainment of normal retirement age. The
pension benefit for other participants shall be computed on the basis of 2% for
each year of service completed after June 30, 2003 multiplied by such other
participant’s final average base pay. Other participant’s pension benefit for
years of service completed prior to July 1, 2003 shall be determined in
accordance with the retirement system provisions in effect on June 30, 2003. In
no event shall any other participant’s pension benefit under the retirement
system exceed 70% of final average base pay. The pension benefit shall be paid
in the form of a life annuity at normal retirement date unless the other
participant elects to receive his accrued benefit, as applicable, in the form
of (i) a joint and 50% spousal survivor annuity or joint and 100% spousal
survivor annuity, (ii) a joint and 50% qualified domestic partner survivor
annuity or joint and 100% qualified domestic partner survivor annuity, or (iii)
such other forms of payment as may be established by the Retirement Board, in
all cases with appropriate adjustment for actuarial equivalency. The pension
shall be based upon the base pay of such other participant regardless of any
temporary reduction thereof or any non-payment on account of illness or other
temporary absence.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 35.115 MANNER OF CLAIMING RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Any participant eligible for pension benefits under the retirement
system may retire from service with the city and commence the pension benefits
by filing with the Retirement Board a written statement in the form prescribed
by the Retirement Board, duly attested, setting forth at what time subsequent
to the date a participant desires to be retired.
   (B)   Any application for disability retirement must be filed prior to a
participant’s termination of service from the city.
   (C)   Participants retiring on or after October 1, 2008, may forfeit his or
her rights to benefits under the Retirement System pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat.
§§ 1-110 et seq., as may be amended. Such participant shall, however, be
entitled to a refund of his or her own contributions to the Retirement System.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.116 NONALIENATION.
   The right of any participant to a pension or the return of participant
contributions or to any benefits or rights accrued or accruing under the
provisions of the retirement system shall not be assignable or alienable,
except pursuant to the rules and regulations pertaining to a qualified domestic
relations order, as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 414(p).
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.117 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Retirement Board may,
within 30 days from the date when the decision was rendered, take an appeal to
the Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury.
   (B)   Notice of the appeal shall be given by serving a true and attested
copy upon the Retirement Board within 12 days before the return date. The
appeal shall state the reasons upon which it is predicated.
   (C)   The authority issuing the citation to the appeal shall take from the
appellant a bond or recognizance to the Retirement Board, with surety, to
prosecute the appeal to effect.
   (D)   The Retirement Board shall be required to file with the Court either
the original papers acted upon by it, and constituting the record of the case
appealed from, or certified copies thereof. The Court, upon the appeal, and
after a hearing thereon, may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, may modify or
revise the decision appealed from, or may remand the matter to the Retirement
Board for further proceedings.
   (E)   Costs shall not be allowed against the Retirement Board unless it
appears to the Court, that it acted with gross negligence, in bad faith or with
malice in making the decision appealed from.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.118 REFUND OF PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In the event of the withdrawal of any participant from the
retirement system, the retirement system shall pay on or after separation of
employment to the participant, an amount equal to the participant’s
contributions to the retirement system, plus regular interest upon the written
request of the participant.
      (2)   In the event of the death of any participant without a vested
benefit or death benefit under the retirement system, an amount equal to the
participant contributions to the retirement system plus regular interest shall
be paid from the retirement system either to such beneficiary as the
participant may have designated in writing and filed with the Retirement Board
or, in the event that no such beneficiary shall have been designated, the sum
shall be paid to the participant’s estate.
      (3)   If at the death of any pensioner an excess of the participant’s
contributions as of the effective date of the participant’s retirement over
pension payments thereafter made to the participant shall remain, the excess
without interest shall be disbursed by the Retirement Board in the same way.
   (B)   Any participant who receives a refund of participant contributions
shall forfeit his entire accrued benefit under this retirement system.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.119 EFFECT OF PAYMENT UNDER WORKERS' COMPENSATION OR HEART AND
HYPERTENSION.
   To the extent that a pensioner is entitled to any pension benefits from the
retirement system, while the pension benefits are payable to the pensioner they
shall be reduced dollar for dollar by any amounts attributable to workers’
compensation and/or heart and hypertension benefits paid under any relevant
state or local statutes or ordinances.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.120 REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Any former participant who ceases to be an active participant in the
retirement system by reason of termination of service from the city may, within
180 days of becoming an active participant, apply to the Retirement Board for
reinstatement of the most recent prior years of service, up to a maximum of
three years of service. A former participant who has forfeited his or her
rights under §
35.115 shall not be eligible for reinstatement under this section.
   (B)   for any reinstatement pursuant to division (A) of this section, the
Retirement Board shall reinstate the person’s prior service provided, if the
person had received a refund of his participant contributions, the
reinstatement shall only be granted upon the person’s payment into the
retirement system of the amount paid to the participant as a refund of the
participant’s contributions, plus interest compounded annually at the
actuarially-assumed retirement system interest rate in effect for the Plan
Limitation Year for the period between the refund and the time of the
reinstatement.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011; Ord. passed 3-24-2014)
§ 35.121 MILITARY SERVICE.
   A participant’s contributions, accrued benefits and years of service under
the retirement system with respect to periods of “qualified military service”,
as defined in the Uniformed Services Employment & Re-employment Rights Act of
1999, will be determined in accordance with the provisions of 26 U.S.C. § 414
(u).
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.122 AMENDMENT.
   Neither the contributions of the city nor participant contributions under
the retirement system shall constitute the vested rights as will prevent the
amendment of any portion or all of this retirement system. It is expressly
provided that this retirement system may be amended to permit alteration of
contributions, benefits and all other terms and conditions.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.123 CONTINUED PAYMENT TO EXISTING PENSIONERS.
   All pension benefits which as of June 30, 2003 are being paid from the city
to pensioners, shall be a continuing obligation of the retirement system and
shall be thereafter paid from the Retirement Fund at the rates and in
accordance with the provisions of the retirement system in effect on June 30,
2003.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.124 DISABILITY PENSIONERS REPORTS.
   (A)   Every disability pensioner receiving or entitled to receive a
disability pension may be required upon written request of the Retirement Board
to file with the Retirement Board within the 45-day period prior to his first
and subsequent anniversary dates of retirement, on forms provided by the
Retirement Board, a sworn statement, on a form provided by the Pension and
Benefits Office, as to the current health of the participant, whether the
participant is employed and the details of the employment. The Retirement Board
may request at least one medical examination of any disability pensioner by a
physician selected by the Retirement Board or its designee which shall be
reviewed by the Retirement Board, independent medical review company or Medical
Examination Board established pursuant to §
35.126. Failure to file such evidence of current health statement, the filing
of a falsified statement, or the failure to submit to a requested medical
examination, may be grounds for immediate suspension of future disability
pension payments until such statement is corrected or filed with the Retirement
Board or until the examination is completed.
   (B)   In the event the Board determines based on independent medical
examination that the disability for which the participant is receiving a
disability pension no longer exists, the Board may order discontinuance of the
disability pension payable to such participant. In the event the participant’s
disability pension is discontinued as provided above, the participant may
withdraw his or her pension contribution less disability pension benefits
received to date, plus all accumulated interest as provided in §
35.118, or, provided the participant was vested at the time his or her
disability pension commenced, the participant may be eligible to receive a
vested benefit as defined herein.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.125 REHIRED RETIREES.
   Any pensioner retired from the service of the city and in receipt of a
regular or disability pension who thereafter is re-employed on a regular full-
time basis or provides services customarily provided by an individual employed
on a full-time basis shall not be eligible to accrue any additional years of
service for benefit purposes under the retirement system. Furthermore, the
pension payments to the pensioner shall be suspended and no pension benefits
shall be paid to the individual during the period of regular full-time
employment with the city. Pension payments to the pensioners shall resume as of
the first day of the month following termination of the employment or service
by the pensioner without any mortality or interest adjustment.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.126 DETERMINATION OF DISABILITY.
   (A)   To assist the Retirement Board in its responsibility to determine a
participant’s total and permanent disability, the Board may, in its discretion:
      (1)   Contract with an independent medical review company of the Board’s
choosing in the business of making such determinations;
      (2)   Create a Medical Examination Board consisting of physicians
licensed to practice in the state to make disability determinations; or
      (3)   The Retirement Board may make the determination of total and
permanent disability itself based on a minimum of two independent medical exams
of a participant claiming a disability pension performed by licensed medical
professionals of the Board’s choosing.
   (B)   In the event the Board contracts with a medical review company, the
following provisions shall be applicable:
      (1)   The medical review company shall gather and review all medical
records from the participant’s treating physicians.
      (2)   Except as provided below, the medical review company shall schedule
a minimum of two independent medical examinations (IMEs) with medical
professionals of their choosing in the specialty area of the disability upon
which the application for disability pension is based. Where appropriate, the
medical review company may recommend waiver of any IMEs, provided the medical
review company can make accurate recommendation regarding a participant’s total
and permanent disability to the Board based on medical records of participant’s
treating physician(s).
      (3)   The medical review company shall develop a written report and make
a recommendation to the Board regarding a participant’s total and permanent
disability based on review of a participant’s medical records and IME reports.
      (4)   The Board may establish procedures for the medical review company
from time to time.
   (C)   In the event a Medical Examination Board is established by the
Retirement Board, the following provisions shall be applicable:
      (1)   The Medical Examination Board shall advise the Retirement Board on
such medical issues as may arise under the retirement system and make
recommendation to the Board as to whether a participant is totally and
permanently disabled;
      (2)   The number, terms and qualifications of the physicians shall be
established from time to time by the Retirement Board, but the minimum number
of members shall not be less than three;
      (3)   The Retirement Board may establish procedures for the Medical
Examination Board from time to time; and
      (4)   The Medical Examination Board shall review the medical evidence
submitted by any participants applying for a pension due to such disability
along with the results of any and all independent medical exams ordered by the
Retirement Board and make a recommendation to Board based on the medical
evidence submitted.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.127 TAX QUALIFICATION.
   (A)   Governmental plan. The Retirement System is intended to constitute a
“governmental plan”, as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 414(d) which is qualified under
26 U.S.C. § 401(a). Consequently, the retirement system is intended to comply
with those requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 401(a) and those provisions of the Tax
Reform Act of 1986, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights
Act of 1994, the Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996, the Taxpayer Relief
Act of 1997, the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998,
the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000, the Economic Growth and Tax
Reconciliation and Relief Act of 2001, and subsequent legislation, which are
applicable to a governmental plan.
   (B)   Exclusive benefit. All assets of the Retirement Fund, including
investment income, shall be retained for the exclusive benefit of participants
and their beneficiaries, and shall be used to pay benefits to such persons or
to defray the reasonable expenses of administering the retirement system, and
shall not revert to or inure to the benefit of the city, except that a
contribution which was made by mistake of fact shall be returned to the city
within one year after the payment of the contribution. In the event that the
retirement system is terminated, after satisfaction of all benefit rights under
the retirement system, if a surplus remains in the Retirement Fund due to
“actuarial error”, the surplus may be returned to the city.
   (C)   Minimum distribution rules. All distributions under the retirement
system shall be in accordance with 26 U.S.C. § 401(a)(9) and the regulations
issued thereunder, including the requirement that distributions to a
participant must commence no later than April 1 of the calendar year following
the calendar year in which such participant attains age 70 ½ and the minimum
distribution incidental benefit requirements, and the distribution provisions
contained in the preceding sections of this ordinance are intended to comply
with such regulations.
   (D)   Maximum benefits. The limitations of 26 U.S.C. § 415, to the extent
applicable to a governmental plan (and, where applicable, to a plan maintained
for public safety employees), regarding maximum annual pension benefits payable
to any participant, are incorporated into the retirement system by reference.
The annual benefit shall not exceed the annual dollar limit of 26 U.S.C. § 415
(b), subject to adjustment in accordance with 26 U.S.C. § 415 and the
regulations issued hereunder. In addition, the annual compensation taken into
account by the retirement system shall not exceed the limitation of 26 U.S.C. §
401(a)(l 7).
   (E)   Application of forfeitures. The forfeiture of all or a portion of a
participant’s accrued benefit shall not be applied to increase the benefits of
any other participant, but may be anticipated in estimating retirement system
costs.
   (F)   Vesting upon termination or partial termination. In the event of the
termination or partial termination of the retirement system, or the complete
discontinuance of city contributions hereto, benefits hereunder of affected
participants will be fully vested, to the extent then funded.
   (G)   Direct rollover provisions.
      (1)   A distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed
by the Board, to have any portion of an “eligible rollover distribution” from
the Retirement System paid directly to an “eligible retirement plan” specified
by the distributee in a “direct rollover”. An “eligible rollover distribution”
is any distribution of all or any portion of the accrued benefit of the
distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include any
distribution that is:
         (a)   One of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not
less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the
distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee
and the distributee’s designated beneficiary or for a specified period of ten
years or more; or
         (b)   Any distribution to the extent such distribution is required
under 26 U.S.C. § 401(a)(9).
      (2)   A portion of a distribution shall not fail to be an eligible
rollover distribution merely because the portion consists of after-tax employee
contributions that are not includable in gross income; however, the portion may
be paid only to an individual retirement account or annuity described in 26
U.S.C. § 408(a) or (b), or to a qualified defined contribution plan described
in 26 U.S.C. §§ 401 or 403(a) that agrees to separately account for amounts so
transferred, including separately accounting for the portion of the
distribution that is includible in gross income and the portion of the
distribution that is not so includible.
      (3)   An “eligible retirement plan” is an individual retirement account
described in 26 U.S.C. § 408(a), an individual retirement annuity described in
26 U.S.C. § 408(b), an annuity plan described in 26 U.S.C. § 403(a), or a
qualified trust described in 26 U.S.C. § 401(a), that accepts the distributee’s
eligible rollover distribution. An “eligible retirement plan” shall also
include an annuity contract described in 26 U.S.C. § 403(b), an eligible
deferred compensation plan described in 26 U.S.C. § 457(b) which is maintained
by a state, political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality
of the state or political subdivision thereof which agrees to separately
account for amounts transferred into the plan from this retirement system. The
definition of eligible retirement plan shall also apply in the case of a
distribution to a surviving spouse, or to a spouse or former spouse who is the
alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order.
      (4)   A “direct rollover” is a payment by the retirement system to the
eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee. A distributee includes a
participant or former participant. In addition, the participant’s or former
participant’s surviving spouse and the participant’s or former participant’s
spouse or former spouse who is an alternate payee under a qualified domestic
relations order, as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 414(p), are distributees with regard
to the interest of the spouse or former spouse.
   (H)   Actuarial equivalence. Alternative forms of benefit, if they are
provided by the retirement system, shall be of equivalent current value to the
benefit which would otherwise have been provided to the participant, determined
on the basis of the following actuarial assumptions:
      (1)   The interest assumption shall be 6%; and
      (2)   The mortality assumption shall be the 1994 GAR Mortality Table
projected to 2002.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011; Ord. passed 3-24-2014)
§ 35.128 ADMINISTRATIVE ERROR CLAUSE.
   All calculations of pension benefits under the retirement system are subject
to verification by the Pension and Benefits Office. In the event an error or
errors in calculations are discovered after award of pension benefits by the
Board, the Pension and Benefits Office shall make appropriate corrections,
subject to approval by the Board.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
§ 35.129 SPECIAL LIMITATIONS WITH RESPECT TO QUALIFIED DOMESTIC PARTNERS.
   No provision of the plan shall apply with respect to a qualified domestic
partner if the application of such provision with respect to a qualified
domestic partner would violate the law or jeopardize the tax-qualification of
the plan. By way of example only, §§
35.116 (relating to domestic relations orders) and
35.127(C) (relating to minimum distribution rules) shall not apply with respect
to a qualified domestic partner.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 36: RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Statement of policy
Risk Management Administrative Staff
   
36.15   Establishment
   
36.16   Duties
   
36.17   Membership
   
36.18   Risk management discussions
   
36.19   Conflicts of interest
   
36.20   Remedies for violation
Risk Management Policy
   
36.35   Risk Management Policy Manual
   
36.36   Risk management accounting policies
   
36.37   Internal services funds
   
36.38   Cash management and investments
   
36.39   Claims processing
   
36.40   Financial objectives
   
36.41   Financial management and reporting
Settlement of Claims
   
36.55   Settlement of claims
Cross-reference:
   City Policy, see
Ch. 34
   Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission, see §
31.005
   Inland Wetlands and Watercourses, see
Ch. 155
   Pension and Retirement System, see
Ch. 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLAIMS. The settlement of financial liabilities in actions and notices of
claims, as defined under state law, commenced against the city, including
administrative and judicial actions but shall not include mandamus actions,
requests for declaratory or equitable relief, zoning appeals, tax appeals,
appeals from the City Plan Commission, decisions relating to settlement of
pension claims, Inland Wetlands Commission Appeals. The Retirement Board shall
be the final arbiter of all monetary decisions pertaining to the retirement
system.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.02 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Generally. There shall be a "Risk Management Program" ("RMP") with the
objective of protecting the city against liability-based financial loss through
a process of transferring risks:
      (1)   To city-managed, city-financed self-insurance programs. These risks
are designated as "retained risks";
      (2)   To third-party, private insurance companies in exchange for
payments ("premiums") to the insurance company. These risks are designated as
"insured risks"; or
      (3)   To combinations of self-insured and insured risks, the insured
portion of which are designated by various nomenclatures including:
"catastrophic" insurance and "stop loss" insurance.
   (B)   Optimization of financial resources. The city seeks to optimize the
application of its financial resources and level the financing fluctuations
inherent in risk management through:
      (1)   Utilizing a financial policy of actuarially-based pre-funding of
all self-insured components of the city's risk management program;
      (2)   Expert analyses of risk retention options;
      (3)   Risk avoidance through city administrative actions to limit
liability exposure; and
      (4)   The purchase of third-party insurance coverage through a vigorous,
competitive acquisition process.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
RISK MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Mayor shall convene, from time to time, the Risk Management
Administrative Staff ("RMAS"), comprised of members of his administrative staff
who are responsible for oversight of the city's employee health benefits
program, workers' compensation program, heart and hypertension program,
liability program (general liability, automobile liability, professional
liability, law enforcement liability and employment practices liability) and
prevention and/or loss of control program.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.16 DUTIES.
   The RMAS shall:
   (A)   Recommend the mix of insurance and self-insurance that most
effectively and economically finances the cost of mitigating current and future
risks to the city;
   (B)   Recommend annual risk management budget submissions for the affected
departments in the manner required by § 9B-1 of the Charter of the city;
   (C)   Develop and implement plans which fairly and effectively allocate risk
management costs to the various departments and agencies of the city, including
cost reduction programs/initiatives;
   (D)   Review the accounting and financial reporting related to the city's
risk management activities;
   (E)   Review the management and reporting of claims and losses;
   (F)   Retain, through the budgeted appropriations of the Department of
Finance or as allowed by the policies governing funds used through the
appropriate internal fund account, and in compliance with the city's
procurement procedures, services of actuaries, third party administrators and
insurance carriers required to effectively administer the risk management
programs;
   (G)   Recommend policies, consistent with requirements of the Charter of the
city and this code, for all risk management functions;
   (H)   Develop policies, including interest rate assumptions for the Risk
Management Internal Service Funds, that assure appropriate reserves required
for the prudent management of self-insured risk exposures;
   (I)   Develop policies which ensure appropriate coverages required for the
prudent management of insured risk exposures;
   (J)   Develop risk reduction programs;
   (K)   Develop policies and methods of tracking vendor warranties on
supplies, equipment, products and materials in order to protect the interests
of the city;
   (L)   Prepare policies and recommendations for submission by the Mayor to
the Board of Aldermen, if legislative action is required; and
   (M)   Recommend proposed settlements of all claims against the city, in
accordance §
36.55 of this code and with the terms and requirements of the adopted policies.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.17 MEMBERSHIP.
   The RMAS shall consist of the following officials: the Chief of Staff of the
Mayor, or other designee of the Mayor; the Director of Finance (who shall
preside over any meetings of the RMAS); the Director of the Budget; the Human
Resources Director; and Superintendent of Schools or his designee. The
designees shall have experience in risk management issues and protocols.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.18 RISK MANAGEMENT DISCUSSIONS.
   (A)   Discussion of pending claims and litigation and other matters not
subject to public disclosure.
      (1)   Each of the staff members of the RMAS and other officials of the
city may engage in discussions and activities that are protected and
confidential matters pertaining to the interest of the city. The discussions
may include, but not be limited to, the following matters:
         (a)   The appointment, employment, performance, evaluation, health or
dismissal of a public officer or employee;
         (b)   Strategy and negotiations with respect to pending claims or
pending litigation to which the city or an official or employee, because of his
conduct as a member of the agency, is a party until the litigation or claim has
been finally adjudicated or otherwise settled; or
         (c)   Discussion of any matter which would result in the disclosure of
public records or the information contained therein described in Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 1-210(b).
      (2)   In this respect, the RMAS and other officials of the city shall be
required to maintain the level of confidentiality required by law for the
protection of the interests of the city. Nothing in this provision shall be
construed to prohibit or limit a public official's duty of disclosure under
applicable so-called whistleblower or public disclosure laws.
   (B)   No disclosure of confidential information. No RMAS or other officials
of the city shall willfully and knowingly disclose to the detriment of the
city, to any other person, confidential information acquired by him in the
course of and by reason of his official duties or employment.
   (C)   Effect of an administrative or judicial subpoena.
      (1)   The members of the RMAS are subject to the State Freedom of
Information Act and, as such, the confidential information and discussions
shall be protected and not disclosed to the extent permitted by state law. The
members of the RMAS shall promptly furnish, to the Corporation Counsel, notice
of any request for disclosure of such confidential information made to any of
them by a third party, and of any lawsuit filed against any of them in an
effort by any third party to obtain the confidential information.
      (2)   In the event a member of the RMAS receives a subpoena or other
validly issued administrative or judicial process demanding confidential
information, he shall promptly notify the Mayor and the Corporation Counsel of
the receipt and tender to them the defense of the demand. The party receiving
the subpoena shall thereafter be entitled to comply with the subpoena or other
process to the extent permitted by law, unless the subpoena is quashed or
otherwise limited in effect.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.19 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No RMAS shall, while serving as such, have any financial interest in,
or engage in, any business, employment, transaction or professional activity,
which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties or
employment in the public interest and of his responsibilities as set forth in §
36.19(A)(1) of this code.
      (1)   Substantial conflict with proper discharge of duties or employment.
An RMAS has an interest which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of his duties or employment in the public interest and of his
responsibilities, if he has reason to believe or expect that he, his spouse, a
dependent child, or a business with which he is associated will derive a direct
monetary gain or suffer a direct monetary loss, as the case may be, by reason
of his official activity. An RMAS does not have an interest which is in
substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the public
interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed by the laws of the state, if
any benefit or detriment accrues to him, his spouse, a dependent child, or a
business with which he, his spouse or the dependent child is associated as a
member of a profession, occupation or group to no greater extent than any other
member of the profession, occupation or group.
      (2)   Recusal. An RMAS who has a substantial conflict may not take
official action on the matter.
   (B)   No RMAS shall accept other employment which will either impair his
independence of judgment as to his official duties or employment or require
him, or induce him, to disclose confidential information acquired by him in the
course of and by reason of his official duties.
   (C)   No RMAS shall willfully and knowingly disclose, for financial gain or
to the detriment of the city, to any other person, confidential information
acquired by him in the course of and by reason of his official duties or
employment and no RMAS shall use his public office or position or any
confidential information received through his holding the public office or
position to obtain financial gain for himself, his spouse, child, child's
spouse, parent, brother or sister or a business with which he is associated.
   (D)   (1)   No RMAS or member of his immediate family or a business with
which he is associated shall enter into any contract with the city, valued at
$100 or more, other than a contract of employment as an employee of the city or
pursuant to a court appointment, unless the contract has been awarded through
an open and public process, including prior public offer and subsequent public
disclosure of all proposals considered and the contract awarded.
      (2)   Any contract made in violation of this section shall be voidable by
a court of competent jurisdiction if the suit is commenced within 90 days of
the making of the contract.
   (E)   (1)   No public official or employee of the city shall knowingly
accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-79
(e), from any person the official or employee knows or has reason to know:
         (a)   Is doing business with or seeking to do business with the
department or agency in which the official or employee is employed; or
         (b)   Is engaged in activities which are directly regulated by such
department or agency.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly give, directly or indirectly, any gift or
gifts in violation of this provision.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.20 REMEDIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Effect of violation. Any violation of §§
36.18 and
36.19 of this code are deemed "malicious, wanton or willful" acts as those
terms are defined under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-101a and the case law thereunder.
Moreover, any violation of said provisions shall not be construed as
"performance of his duties" and, thus, shall be deemed as beyond "the scope of
his employment" and as a "willful or wanton act" of the employee as those terms
are defined under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-465 and the case law thereunder.
   (B)   Claims by the city. The city shall commence legal actions against any
department head, RMAS or official who violates the provisions of §§
36.18 and
36.19 of this code in order to recover any losses or damages caused by the
disclosure of confidential information or by the conflict of interest. The
provisions of the indemnification laws of the state shall not act as a bar for
any claims and actions commenced by the city against any department head, RMAS
or official for violations of these provisions.
   (C)   Removal of department heads and other RMAS. The city may commence
actions to remove any employee or official who violates the provisions of §§
36.18 and
36.19, pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 7A-4 of the Charter of the
city.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
§ 36.35 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY MANUAL.
   (A)   Approval of the Risk Management Policy Manual. The RMAS shall prepare
a Risk Management Internal Service Funds Policy Manual. The Manual and any
amendments thereto, from time to time, shall be submitted to the Board of
Aldermen by the Mayor. The Board of Aldermen shall vote to approve or
disapprove the Policy Manual by resolution requiring a majority vote of the
members of the Board present and voting at a meeting thereof.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Risk Management Internal Service Funds
Policy Manual shall be to set forth the policies and procedures by which the
city controls and accounts for its exposure to risk to a combination of
insurance and self-insured programs under the jurisdiction of the RMAS, to be
administered by the Risk Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.36 RISK MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.
   (A)   General. The city's accounting systems shall be maintained in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") as applied to
governmental units. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board ("GASB") is the
accepted standard setting body for establishing governmental accounting and
financial reporting principles.
   (B)   Effect of GASB Statement #10.
      (1)   GASB Statement #10, entitled Accounting and Financial Reporting for
Risk Financing and Related Insurance Issues, provides guidance for recording
the cost associated with risk retention activities. The standard requires a
governmental unit to record liabilities and expenses when risk of loss has not
been transferred to a third party and both of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Information available before the financial statements are issued
indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability
had been incurred at the date of the financial statements. It is implicit in
this condition that it must be probable that one or more future events will
also occur confirming the fact of the loss; and
         (b)   The amount of loss can be reasonably established.
      (2)   The standard allows the use of the general fund or an internal
service fund to account for the risk management program. In order to avoid the
potential of significant variances within the general fund annual budget, which
can occur from inconsistent claims activities, the city elects the use of
internal service funds.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.37 INTERNAL SERVICES FUNDS.
   (A)   Categories of internal services funds. The city's risk management
function is primarily controlled and accounted for in four internal service
funds: Health Benefits Fund; Workers' Compensation Fund; Heart and Hypertension
Fund; and Liability Fund.
   (B)   Objectives of internal services funds. Internal services fund are
designed to provide goods and services on a cost-reimbursement basis. The goal
of an internal service fund is to measure the full cost of providing goods or
services for the purpose of fully recovering that cost through fees or charges.
   (C)   Accrual basis of accounting for internal services funds. The internal
services funds utilize the accrual basis of accounting. Under the accrual
basis, revenues are recognized as earned and expenditures are recognized when
incurred. Each of the city's internal service funds shall utilize the services
of actuaries and/or third party administrators to establish the estimated
amount of liability associated with the risk retention activity. The City's
Risk Manager and the RMAS shall review the estimates on an annual basis. The
operating policies and specific elements of the four internal service funds are
detailed in the separate sections of this manual.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.38 CASH MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENTS.
   The internal service funds are included in the financial management system
of the city. Accordingly, the accounting records and processing of
transactions, including the investment of idle funds, is the responsibility of
the Director of Finance, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of
the city. The investing of idle cash is subject to the investments policies of
the city. However, the risk management administrative staff will review
annually investment performance, as it affects the Risk Management Funds'
policies. All investment income is revenue to the respective risk management
internal service fund which provided the principle for investment.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.39 CLAIMS PROCESSING.
   (A)   Responsibilities of the Risk Manager. The Risk Manager is responsible
for establishing and maintaining a claims processing center for the purpose of
controlling all claims within the areas of the city's self-insured program as
well as the city's third party insurance program. The center shall function as
the control point for administering and tracking claims for risk management and
loss control purposes as well as reporting exposures for accounting purposes.
   (B)   Utilization of third party administrators. The RMAS shall advise the
Mayor, based upon recommendation of the Risk Manager, when it is the best
interest of the city to contract certain administrative functions to third
party administrators. Although such services may be considered necessary to
effectively and efficiently administer certain elements of the risk management
program, this provision shall not be construed as a delegation of the
administrative authority of the Mayor, the Department of Finance, the Risk
Manager or any department or official to which the administrative
responsibilities have been assigned.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.40 FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Fiscal responsibility and sound budgetary practices. The city shall
establish a system of financial policies demonstrating fiscal responsibility
through sound budgetary practices. Sound budgetary practices include, but may
not be limited to, the funding of the risk management function in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and at a level that will maintain
adequate reserves to meet the program claims and obligations.
   (B)   Budget requirements.
      (1)   The city shall, through the annual budget process:
         (a)   Establish adequate fees to the General Fund and other insured
funds and programs, to ensure, to the extent possible, that the respective
internal service funds' equity remains actuarially adequate; and
         (b)   Adopt an annual budget which funds each internal service fund
based on a sound actuarial basis.
      (2)   Operating deficits of any risk management internal service fund
reported in the annual financial statements of the city, will be funded in the
budget for the first fiscal year beginning after the issuance of the
statements. However, if the operating deficit is sufficiently large, and is a
result of an isolated extraordinary event or events, that are not recurring in
nature, and will result in a fee increase that is excessive in nature, the
Mayor may, upon the advice of the RMAS, request Board of Aldermen approval of
an amortization of the extraordinary item(s) over a reasonable period of time,
but not more than three years. Conversely, no more than 1/3% of any operating
surplus in an internal service fund shall be used in any given fiscal year to
provide budgetary relief to the general fund.
   (C)   Program reserve funds. The RMAS shall recommend the amount of reserves
for each program and develop a funding plan to systematically amortize, through
fees charged to participating funds and programs, the deficiency in such
reserves. The amortization period shall be established for a duration that will
accomplish adequate funding levels in a reasonable amount of time.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
§ 36.41 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Annual financial statements. The Department of Finance shall prepare,
on an annual basis, financial statements for the various risk management
internal service funds. The financial statements will be prepared, using the
accrual basis of accounting, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Financial position and results of operations of each fund will be
presented in accordance with guidelines recommended by the RMAS.
   (B)   Disagreement; Director of Finance as final arbiter. In any
circumstance in which a disagreement arises, among the RMAS, with respect to
either an expense to be charged to a self-insurance internal service fund, or a
financing source to be credited to an internal service fund, the Director of
Finance shall be the final arbiter of any such disagreement. The Director of
Finance shall cite, in writing, the reason(s) for the decision and relate the
decision to GAAP and GASB-10.
   (C)   Responsibilities of the Finance and Audit Review Commission. The
Finance and Audit Review Commission shall review, annually, all payments
tendered from the accounts of the internal service funds, including
settlements.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003)
SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS
§ 36.55 SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Claims by or against the city in the amount of $50,000 or less.
Subject to the approval of the Mayor and within the appropriation therefore or
sufficient funding of the Internal Services Funds. The Corporation Counsel
shall have the authority to settle any claim by or against the city, including
claims pertaining to workers’ compensation, the health benefits program and the
heart and hypertension program.
   (B)   Claims by or against the city in excess of $50,000 and less than
$1,000,000.
      (1)   Within the appropriation therefore or sufficient funding of the
Internal Services Funds and the terms and requirements of the adopted policies,
the RMAS shall make recommendations regarding settlement of all such claims to
the Mayor following presentations by the Corporation Counsel with respect to
all claims by or against the city, including those pertaining to workers'
compensation, health benefits or heart and hypertension benefits.
      (2)   In the event the Mayor disagrees with the recommendation of the
RMAS, he may seek approval of the Board of Aldermen for the settlement of all
claims by or against the city.
   (C)   Claims by or against the city in excess of $1,000,000. Following any
recommendation with respect to settlement by the RMAS, the Mayor shall present
to the Board of Aldermen the settlement of all claims by or against the city in
excess of $1,000,000.
   (D)   The role of the Risk Manager and the Corporation Counsel. Prior to
approving a settlement or accepting a settlement, the Risk Manager shall notify
the Corporation Counsel of the proposed settlement.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2003; Ord. passed 7-23-2012)
CHAPTER 37: HUMAN RESOURCES, MERIT SELECTION AND CIVIL SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Definitions
   
37.002   Personnel and human resources policy of the city
   
37.003   Civil Service Commission
   
37.004   Rule-making and regulatory powers of the Commission
   
37.005   Department of Human Resources
   
37.006   Labor relations
   
37.007   Certification of payroll
Creation of the Classified and Unclassified Service
   
37.020   Unclassified and classified service
   
37.021   Unclassified service
   
37.022   Unclassified service; promotion from teaching position to
administrative position
   
37.023   Classified service
   
37.024   Roster of city employees
   
37.025   Classification plan
Compensation Plan
   
37.040   Rules and regulations pertaining to the approval or disapproval of
revisions to employee compensation plans not covered by collective bargaining
   
37.041   Administrative salary adjustment
   
37.042   Compensation plan in effect
Grant Funded Positions
   
37.055   Grant funded positions
Department Heads and Designated Management Employees
   
37.070   Coverage of subchapter
   
37.071   Appointment of department heads and designated management employees:
the rule of five
   
37.072   Expiration of the contract term; notification
   
37.073   Extension of the contract term; vacancy
   
37.074   Appointment of administrative officials by certain department heads
Hiring and Promotion of Public Employees
   
37.085   Applications and examinations
   
37.086   Rejection of candidates and applications
   
37.087   Qualifications and competitive examinations for entry level and
promotional appointments: the general rule
   
37.088   Selection of employees for appointment and promotion
   
37.089   Method of rating
   
37.090   Notification of examination results and inspection of records
   
37.091   Correction of rating: appeal
   
37.092   Eligible lists for appointment and promotion
   
37.093   Certification of eligible lists
   
37.094   Anticipation of need
   
37.095   Appropriate eligible lists
   
37.096   Part-time positions
   
37.097   Interpretation
   
37.098   Rejection of candidates
   
37.099   Credit allowances
   
37.100   Probation period
   
37.101   Provisional, acting, emergency, temporary and limited term
appointments without examinations
   
37.102   Discrimination and ethical conduct
Promotions, Transfers and Demotions
   
37.115   Promotional policy
   
37.116   Political or partisan endorsement prohibited
   
37.117   Promotional examinations
   
37.118   Transfers
   
37.119   Pay grade after transfer
   
37.120   Voluntary demotions
   
37.121   Special assignments
Performance Evaluations
   
37.135   Objective
Separation
   
37.150   Separation from employment
Disciplinary Actions
   
37.165   Types of disciplinary action
Employee and Human Resources Development
   
37.180   Employment development
Attendance and Leave
   
37.195   Attendance and hours of work
   
37.196   Amendments to the annual compensation plan
   
37.197   Employee leave policies
Appeals and Grievances
   
37.210   Policy
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
37.225   Effective date
   
37.226   Separability
 
   
37.999   Penalty for violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The term used to designate a person or group of
persons having the authority to make appointments to positions in the
classified services of the city as prescribed in the Charter, ordinances or
state law.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Person or organization designated by the employee
to represent him.
   CERTIFICATION. Process whereby an individual is formally designated and
ranked in accordance with the provisions hereof and the regulations pertaining
hereto.
   CLASS CODE. A number assigned to each title to identify it.
   CLASS SERIES. A number of classes of positions, which are substantially
similar as to the types of work involved and differ only in rank as determined
by the importance of the duties and degree of responsibility involved and the
amount of training and experience required.
   CLASS SPECIFICATION. A written description of a class consisting of a class
title, a general statement of the level of work, a statement of the
distinguishing features of work, some examples of work and the minimum
qualifications for the class.
   CLASSIFICATION. The grouping of like positions in regard to:
      (1)   Duties performed and responsibilities;
      (2)   Requirements as to education, knowledge and experience and ability;
      (3)   Tests of fitness; and
      (4)   Ranges of pay.
   CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
      (1)   Generally. The official or approved system of grouping positions
into appropriate classes, including:
         (a)   A schematic index to the class specifications;
         (b)   The class specifications; and
         (c)   Rules for administering the classification plan.
      (2)   Position. A group of currently assigned duties and responsibilities
requiring the full or part-time employment of one person. A position may be
occupied or vacant.
      (3)   Class. A group of positions (or one position) that:
         (a)   Has similar duties and responsibilities;
         (b)   Requires like qualifications; and
         (c)   Can be equitably compensated by the same salary range.
      (4)   Class title. The official designation or name of the class as
stated in the class specification. It shall be used on all personnel records
and actions.
   CLASSIFIED SERVICE. All positions present and future unless specifically
placed in the unclassified service by the Charter of the city or this code of
ordinances or by any future amendments.
   COMMISSION. The Civil Service Commission of the City of Waterbury.
   COMPENSATION. The standard rates of pay which have been established for the
respective classes of work, as set forth in the Compensation Plan.
   COMPENSATION PLAN. The official schedule of pay approved by the Civil
Service Commission and the Board of Aldermen assigning one or more rates of pay
to each class title, arranged schematically by classes of positions.
   COMPENSATORY LEAVE. Time off in lieu of monetary payment for overtime
worked.
   COMPETITIVE PROMOTION. A promotion, based on a competitive examination, with
appointment to a higher-level position for those eligible as set forth in this
chapter of the code and the regulations promulgated pursuant hereto.
   CONTINUOUS SERVICE. Employment without interruption, except for absences on
approved leaves or absences to serve in the Armed Forces of the United States.
   CITY. Waterbury, Connecticut.
   DEMOTION. Assignment of an employee from one class to another that has a
lower maximum rate of pay. See REDUCTION IN RANK.
   DEPARTMENT. A subordinate branch of the city government.
   DEPARTMENT HEADS AND DESIGNATED MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES. The positions of
Department Head and Designated Management Employees are more specifically set
forth, as follows:
      (1)   DEPARTMENT HEAD.
         (a)   The Director of Finance (Chief Financial Officer);
         (b)   Director of Information Services (a/k/a Information Technology
Director);
         (c)   The Director of Purchasing (Purchasing Agent);
         (d)   The Director of Personnel (a/k/a Director of Human Resources);
         (e)   The City Assessor;
         (f)   The Superintendent of Police;
         (g)   The Chief Engineer of the Fire Department;
         (h)   The Health Officer (a/k/a Public Health Director);
         (i)   The Building Official (a/k/a the "Building Inspector");
         (j)   The Superintendent of Schools;
         (k)   The City Auditor;
         (l)   Director of Public Works; and
         (m)   Any other department head set forth in this Charter or
ordinances.
      (2)   DESIGNATED MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE.
         (a)   The Library Director;
         (b)   The City Planner;
         (c)   The Inspector of School Buildings;
         (d)   The Superintendent of Water Works; and
         (e)   The Superintendent of Waste Disposal.
   DISABLED VETERAN. Any veteran with a service connected disability so rated
by the Veterans' Administration.
   DISMISSAL. Separation from city employment for cause.
   ELIGIBLE. A person who has successfully met required qualifications for a
particular class.
   ELIGIBLE LIST. Process whereby the Director of Human Resources formally
establishes a list that designates the individuals who have achieved the
necessary ranking to be certified to the appointing authority.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual who is legally employed by the city and is
compensated through the city payroll for his services. Individuals or groups
compensated as independent contractors shall not be included.
   EXAMINATION. The process of testing, evaluating or investigating the fitness
and qualifications of applicants.
   GARNISHMENT. A legal order for the assignment of an employee's wages to a
creditor.
   INCUMBENT. An employee occupying a position in the city service.
   LAY-OFF. The separation of an employee from a position to which he was
legally certified and appointed as a result of the abolition of a position,
lack of work or lack of funds.
   LEAVE. An approved absence from work.
   LONGEVITY PAY INCREMENT. An increase in compensation established in the
compensation plan as a reward for long and faithful service.
   NON-COMPETITIVE. Positions that are filled without competitive examination.
   OPEN-COMBINED LIST. A list that is created when there are less than three
internal candidates on a promotional list, which includes the remaining
eligible internal candidates and the eligible external candidates.
   OPEN EXAMINATION. An examination, open to the public and not limited to
applicants in the city service.
   OVERTIME PAY. Compensation paid to an employee for overtime work performed.
   PAY GRADE. A combination letter and number symbol indicating the pay range
of a class of positions.
   PAY RANGE. One or more specific pay rates having a constant percentage
relationship to one another, assigned to a class of positions as the
compensation for that class.
   PAY RATE. A specific dollar amount, expressed as either an annual rate, a
monthly rate or an hourly rate, as shown in the compensation plan of the city.
   PERMANENT POSITION. A position created without intent of limitation, which
will exist for at least one year.
   POSITION. Any office or employment, whether occupied or vacant, full time or
part time, consisting of duties and responsibilities assigned to one individual
by competent authority.
   POSITION NUMBER. A number assigned each position by the department head from
a block of numbers assigned by the Director of Human Resources for purposes of
identification.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. The working test or trial period of employment
beginning with the date of appointment to a particular class.
   PROMOTION. Assignment of an employee from one class to another which has a
higher maximum rate of pay.
   PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATION. A competitive examination restricted to persons who
are on regular appointment in the city classified service or to persons who are
eligible to reinstatement thereto.
   QUALIFICATIONS. The minimum educational, experience and personal
requirements which must be fulfilled by a person preliminary to appointment or
promotion.
   REASSIGNMENT. The assignment of an employee without examination from one
position to a position of a different class of the same rank.
   REDUCTION IN RANK. The assignment of an employee from one class to another
which has a lower maximum rate of pay. See DEMOTION.
   RE-EMPLOYMENT LIST. A list of names of persons laid off arranged in order of
their right to re-employment.
   REGULAR APPOINTMENT. An appointment to a permanent position authorized to be
filled and made as a result of a certification as prescribed by the code of
ordinances or the regulations hereunder.
   REINSTATEMENT. Reappointment of a former employee after a break in service
to the former position or one of similar nature.
   SEPARATION. Leaving a position including resignation, retirement, lay-off,
dismissal, disability and death.
   SUSPENSION. An enforced leave of absence for disciplinary purposes or
pending investigation of charges made against an employee.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. An individual whose appointment to a position is of a
limited duration, as set forth herein.
   TRANSFER. Assignment of an employee from one position to another position.
TRANSFERS can take place within a department, between departments between
positions of the same pay range, between positions of different pay ranges,
between positions of the same class or between positions of different classes.
   UNASSEMBLED EXAMINATION. An examination in which qualifications are
evaluated on the basis of records of education and experience submitted by the
applicants, supplemented by any information obtained by an investigation.
   UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE. Positions not included in the classified service as
defined by this ordinance and the regulations hereunder.
   VACANCY. A position which has been newly established or which has been
rendered vacant by the resignation, death or other removal of the previous
incumbent.
   WORK DAY. Scheduled number of hours an employee is required to work per day.
   WORK WEEK. The number of days in any seven day period an employee is
scheduled to work.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 37.002 PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY OF THE CITY.
   (A)   General policy statement. As set forth in § 6B-4(b) of the Charter of
the city, the city shall establish and maintain, by ordinance and regulation,
consistent with the provisions of the Charter, a civil service and merit system
that will assure recruitment of the best available persons to appoint to vacant
positions, advance equal employment opportunity and affirmative action,
continue training and evaluation of employees and bargain fairly with the
collective bargaining representatives of employees, and that the foregoing
policy objectives be achieved in the most cost effective and efficient manner.
This section authorizes the use of any lawful means of administering the city's
civil service and merit system, including the use of private employment
agencies to fulfill the city's labor needs, provided the use of such means does
not conflict with any other provision of this code.
   (B)   Financial support from the city. The financial authorities of the city
shall provide necessary funds to carry out the purpose of this chapter, and
shall provide the Director of Human Resources and the Department with adequate
staff capacity, office space, equipment and facilities.
   (C)   Limitations of ordinance. As set forth in § 6B-4(c)(2) of the Charter
of the city, this code shall not be construed to circumvent, diminish or,
otherwise, violate the requirements of the Charter of the city pertaining to
the civil service and merit system for the hiring and promotion of public
employees.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 37.003 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   General powers. The Civil Service Commission, as formulated by § 6B-4
(a) of the Charter of the city, shall effectuate the purposes of the Charter
and this chapter of the code. The membership and powers of the Commission are
set forth in § 6B-4(d) and (e) of the Charter of the city.
   (B)   Compensation of Commission members; removal. The members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation. The Mayor may remove a
Commissioner only for misfeasance, nonfeasance or partisan activity upon notice
in writing of the reason for the removal and an opportunity to be heard in his
own defense before the Board of Aldermen; and the removal shall then be
effective only upon the affirmative vote of ten members of the Board of
Aldermen.
   (C)   Supervision of the Department of Human Resources. The Commission shall
have the general supervision of the Department of Human Resources; however, the
day-to-day management of the Department shall be vested in the Director of
Human Resources.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.004 RULE-MAKING AND REGULATORY POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   The regulation, rule-making and examinations conducted hereunder, shall be
in accordance with the best practices in merit selection of public employees in
the United States. Pursuant to § 6B-4(d) of the Charter of the city, the
Commission is authorized to propose rules and regulations pertaining to the
following.
   (A)   Hiring and promotion of public employees.
      (1)   Generally. In accordance with § 6B-4(d)(1) of the Charter of the
city, the Commission is authorized to propose rules and prescribe regulations
hereunder in order to ascertain the competency of applicants for positions or
promotions for all positions in the city, except as otherwise set forth by law
or the Charter.
      (2)   Vacancies and promotions: competitive examinations. Accordingly,
vacancies shall be filled by promotion whenever the Director of Human Resources
deems it in the bests interests of the city, and promotions shall be on a
competitive basis whenever possible, except where the Director of Human
Resources, with the approval of the Civil Service Commission and the Appointing
Authority, finds the competition impracticable.
         (a)   Considerations. Promotions shall give appropriate consideration
to the applicants' records of performance, provided the applicant meets the
minimum qualifications as established.
         (b)   Notice of competitive examinations. Competitive examinations
will be posted, at the Department, for ten days or until the announced number
of qualified applicants are received. The Director of Human Resources may
extend the posting beyond the announced number of qualified applicants if he
determines, in writing, that the applicant pool is lacking in overall quality,
setting forth the reasons for the determination.
   (B)   The development and review of job descriptions, qualifications and
classification plan.
      (1)   In accordance with §§ 6B-4(c)(1)(v) and 6B-4(d)(2) of the Charter
of the city, the Commission is authorized to approve or disapprove the
following, as proposed by the Director of Human Resources:
         (a)   Job descriptions;
         (b)   Job qualifications; and
         (c)   Revisions to the position classification plan.
      (2)   The Commission shall conduct an annual review and modify the plan
accordingly. The preparation, maintenance and revision of a position
classification plan for all positions in the classified service shall be based
upon similarity of duties performed and responsibilities assumed, so that the
same qualifications may reasonably be required for and the same schedule of pay
may be equitably applied to all positions in the same class.
   (C)   The development and review of a compensation plan.
      (1)   In accordance with §§ 6B-4(c)(1)(v), (xi) and 6B-4(d)(2) of the
Charter of the city, the Commission is authorized to approve or disapprove a
Compensation Plan for all employees not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, as proposed by the Director of Human Resources.
      (2)   The plan shall constitute the city's compensation schedule for
classes of positions not covered by a collective bargaining agreement for the
ensuing fiscal year and thereafter until a new compensation plan shall be
adopted by the Board of Aldermen. The Commission shall conduct an annual review
and propose a modification of the plan to the Board of Aldermen, if necessary.
      (3)   The rates of compensation set forth in the compensation plan shall
be approved by the Board of Aldermen as set forth in § 3A-2(f)(5) of the
Charter of the city.
   (D)   Approval of administrative procedures and regulations by the Board of
Aldermen. As set forth in §§ 6B-4(c)(3) and 12A-1 of the Charter of the city,
all procedures and administrative regulations adopted by the Commission,
including additions, modifications or changes, shall take effect unless
disapproved by the Board of Aldermen with at least ten Aldermen voting for the
disapproval within 60 days from the date received by the Board of Aldermen.
   (E)   Penalty for violations. All penalties for the violation of the
ordinances or rules of the Commission shall be enforced as set forth in § 6B-4
(f) of the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.005 DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES.
   (A)   The Director of Human Resources. The day-to-day management of the
Department shall be vested in the Director of Human Resources.
      (1)   Appointment. The Director of Human Resources shall be a properly
qualified person appointed, as prescribed herein. The Director of Human
Resources shall become a member of the classified service, except for the
removal provisions specified herein.
      (2)   Removal of the Director. The Director of Human Resources may be
removed only for misfeasance, nonfeasance or partisan activity upon notice in
writing of the reason for such removal and an opportunity to be heard in his
own defense before the Civil Service Commission, and upon a majority vote of
the full Commission.
         (a)   Appeal by the Director. A Director of Human Resources so removed
may appeal the decision of the Civil Service Commission to the Board of
Aldermen by filing grounds for appeal within the time period set forth in the
code of ordinances or the rules of the Board of Aldermen.
         (b)   Action by the Board of Aldermen. The Board of Aldermen may
reverse the decision of the Civil Service Commission, after considering the
grounds for appeal; provided, at least ten Aldermen vote in favor of the
reversal. The actions of the Board of Aldermen shall be in the manner of an
appellate and not a de novo proceeding.
      (3)   Duties of the Director. The duties of the Director are set forth in
§ 7C-5 of the Charter of the city and may be amplified by ordinance.
   (B)   Records and reports of personnel transactions. All appointments,
separations and other personnel transactions must be made on forms as
designated by the Director of Human Resources.
      (1)   Public inspection. The following information relative to employees
and former employees is available for public inspection at reasonable times and
in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Director of Human Resources:
name, address, class title and salary, and eligible lists. The department head
concerned, the Mayor, the Civil Service Commission, and the employee involved
are the only ones who may access examination records and service rating reports
provided that test security is not compromised. Other personnel information may
be made available for official purposes only at the discretion of the Director
of Human Resources and in accordance with state law.
      (2)   Destruction of records. Eligible lists and employee service records
shall be kept pursuant to statutory requirements.
      (3)   Reports. The Director of Human Resources shall submit a written
report to the Civil Service Commission annually and at such other times as the
Commission shall designate. Copies of the reports shall be sent to the Mayor
and Board of Aldermen.
      (4)   Attendance records. Each department shall prepare and submit
regular attendance reports of classified employees, as required by the Director
of Human Resources.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.006 LABOR RELATIONS.
   The Human Resources Department may be assigned responsibility for labor
relations, including, grievances and hearings thereon and assisting or acting
on behalf of the Mayor in contract negotiations. In this capacity, the Director
may be authorized, in accordance with the requirements of the Charter of the
city pertaining to the hiring of counsel, to retain outside counsel to aid in
labor relations.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.007 CERTIFICATION OF PAYROLL.
   Pursuant to § 6B-4(c)(1)(vii) of the Charter of the city the following, and
the regulations hereunder, shall apply to the certification of payroll:
   (A)   Payroll changes. A department head or other official may add an
employee to the payroll, or change his salary or status only upon prior receipt
of the properly completed personnel action form designated and approved by the
Director of Human Resources. The Payroll Department shall not process any
change in salary or status not approved by the Director of Human Resources.
   (B)   Review of payroll. The Director of Human Resources shall instruct the
appropriate department head or employee to supply him with the required payroll
and other information needed to assure compliance with the Charter, ordinances
and these regulations. Any payroll with a deviation from the standard payroll
shall be sent to the Director of Human Resources.
   (C)   Irregularities. The Director of Human Resources shall strike the names
of persons from the payroll when irregularities are detected and notify the
department head involved.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
CREATION OF THE CLASSIFIED AND UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE
§ 37.020 UNCLASSIFIED AND CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   Pursuant to § 6B-4(c)(1)(i) of the Charter of the city, the employees of the
city shall be divided into the unclassified service and the classified service.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.021 UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   The unclassified service shall include:
   (A)   All elective officials and persons appointed to fill vacancies in
elective offices;
   (B)   Members of all elected or appointed boards and commissions;
   (C)   The Corporation Counsel and Director of the Budget;
   (D)   The Executive Secretary to the Mayor and all other members of the
staff employed at any time in the Mayor's Office;
   (E)   The Deputy Police Superintendent, Assistant Chief Fire Engineer and
Deputy Public Works Director for Operations and Deputy Public Works Director
for Services;
   (F)   Board of Education certified teachers and the Chief Operating Officer;
   (G)   Grant funded positions; and
   (H)   School Nurse position.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 9-23-2014)
§ 37.022 UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE; PROMOTION FROM TEACHING POSITION TO
ADMINISTRATIVE POSITION.
   (A)   Promotions; unclassified service. Any promotion from a teaching
position to an administrative position shall be under the provisions of this
chapter and the regulations adopted hereunder, if any. For the purposes of this
chapter, administrative positions shall include Superintendent of Schools,
Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Director of Special Services, Assistant to
the Superintendent, supervisors, principals, vice-principals, teaching
principals and teaching vice-principals. The positions listed herein are
examples of intent and shall not be considered as all-inclusive.
   (B)   Determination of applicability of classified service to certain
administrative duties. Any other position in the educational system which
requires more than 50% of the incumbent's time to be devoted to administrative
duties shall be included in the classified service.
   (C)   Resolution of issue. If a question arises relative to the amount of
the time devoted in an administrative position, the question shall be referred
to a committee of three for a decision. The Board of Education and the Civil
Service Commission shall each designate one of their members to serve on the
committee and these two persons together with the Mayor or designee shall
comprise the committee. The decision of the committee shall be final.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.023 CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (A)   The divisions of the classified service. The classified service shall
include all other positions now existing or hereafter created and shall be
divided into competitive and noncompetitive divisions.
      (1)   The noncompetitive division. The noncompetitive division shall
include: the following positions or classes of positions for which the Civil
Service Commission, by unanimous vote of all of its members, decides that it is
not practicable to determine the relative merit and fitness of applicants by
competitive examination:
         (a)   Cashier Checker;
         (b)   Checker;
         (c)   Lakewood Park Supervisor;
         (d)   Lifeguard I;
         (e)   Lifeguard II;
         (f)   Park Cashier;
         (g)   Playground Leader I;
         (h)   Playground Leader II;
         (i)   Recreation Aide;
         (j)   Recreation Leader I;
         (k)   Recreation Specialist;
         (l)   Swim Program Director;
         (m)   Water Safety Supervisor;
         (n)   Fire Driver;
         (o)   Police Officer (currently certified);
         (p)   Temporary Employees; and
         (q)   Other season classifications.
      (2)   The competitive division. The competitive division shall include
all other offices or positions of the Classified Service.
   (B)   Determination of placement in noncompetitive division. The Civil
Service Commission may, at any time, by a majority vote, designate the position
or class of positions which shall be placed in the noncompetitive division. The
designation shall be effective following ratification of the designation by a
majority vote of the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Determination of placement from noncompetitive to competitive
division: discretion of Commission.The Civil Service Commission may, at any
time, by a majority vote, change a position or class of positions from the
noncompetitive to the competitive division.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 5-6-2013; Ord. passed 9-6-2022)
§ 37.024 ROSTER OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Pursuant to § 6B-4(c)(1)(vi) of the Charter of the city, the Director of
Human Resources shall establish and maintain a roster of all employees of the
city, whether in the classified or unclassified service.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.025 CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   Pursuant to §§ 6B-4(c)(1)(v) and 6B-4(d)(2) of the Charter of the city, the
Commission is authorized to approve or disapprove a Classification Plan.
   (A)   Allocations of positions; creation of classes. Following the
completion of a position description the Director of Human Resources shall
allocate the position to one of the classes in the classification plan.
      (1)   Allocation of positions. If a suitable class does not exist, the
Director shall recommend the establishment of a new class. After the adoption
of the new class by the Civil Service Commission, as provided herein, the
position shall be allocated to the classification plan.
      (2)   Allocation appeals. If an employee has facts which indicate to him
that his position is improperly allocated, he may request the Director of Human
Resources to review the classification allocation of his position with the
knowledge of his department head. The request shall be submitted in writing and
shall contain a statement of justification.
   (B)   Maintenance of the plan. The Director shall maintain the
classification plan with the assistance of the department heads of the city.
      (1)   Actions pertaining to vacancies. Each time a vacancy occurs, a
position description shall be completed by the department head and submitted to
the Director of Human Resources for a review of the allocation of the position.
The Director of Human Resources may waive this requirement in cases where it
has been ascertained by the Director of Human Resources that no material
changes have occurred.
      (2)   Actions pertaining to department reorganizations. It shall be the
duty of each department head to submit to the Director of Human Resources new
position descriptions for all affected positions each time a department (or
subdivision thereof) under his jurisdiction is permanently or substantially
reorganized.
      (3)   Actions pertaining to the establishment of new classes of
employees. Each time a new class is established, a class specification shall be
written and incorporated in the existing plan. The class title shall be added
to the schematic list of titles. Likewise an abolished class shall be deleted
from the classification plan by removing the class title from the schematic
list of titles.
      (4)   Periodic review of position descriptions. The Director of Human
Resources may require department heads to submit position description on a
periodic basis, or any time he has reason to believe that there has been a
change in the duties and responsibilities of one or more positions in the
department or departments under his jurisdiction.
      (5)   Periodic review of classification plan. Periodically, after the
adoption of these regulations, the Director of Human Resources shall conduct a
general review of the classification plan.
   (C)   Amendment to the classification plan. Each time a new class of
positions should be established or a current class of positions abolished, the
Director of Human Resources shall submit his findings and recommendations to
the Civil Service Commission. It shall determine whether the establishment and/
or the abolition of a class is in order. The changes shall take the form of
amendments as specified herein. The Director of Human Resources shall not be
required to submit revisions to established job specifications to the
Commission, unless:
      (1)   Otherwise required by Charter or ordinance;
      (2)   The revisions change the minimum qualifications; or
      (3)   The revisions constitute a newly created position.
   (D)   Classification plan in force. The classification plan shall be
considered a part of this section and have the same force and effect as these
personnel regulations. The plan may be amended by a majority vote of the Civil
Service Commission in accordance with the regulations adopted hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
COMPENSATION PLAN
§ 37.040 RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF
REVISIONS TO EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS NOT COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
   Pursuant to §
37.004(B) of this chapter, the Commission is responsible for the approval or
disapproval of revisions to the compensation plan for all employees not covered
by collective bargaining agreement. In this regard, the Commission is
authorized to issue regulations addressing compensation as it may be applicable
to new appointees, promotions, demotions, reallocations downward and employees.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.041 ADMINISTRATIVE SALARY ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The salary of each employee not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement shall be reviewed annually by his immediate supervisor, department
head and/or Mayor for the purpose of making recommendations for the following
fiscal year. All of the personnel records, tardiness, attendance, performance
and length of service shall be considered in making the salary recommendations
with major emphasis placed on the objective evaluation of services rendered.
   (B)   Recommendations approved by the Commission become effective upon
approval of the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.042 COMPENSATION PLAN IN EFFECT.
   (A)   Effect of plan. The compensation plan in effect at the end of each
fiscal year shall remain in operation until modified as provided by §
37.004(C) of the code of ordinances. It shall be considered a part of this
section and have the same force and effect as these regulations.
   (B)   Maintaining a current plan. The Director of Human Resources shall
conduct a periodic salary survey for classes of positions in the classified
service, not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and recommend a
compensation plan for the approval of the Civil Service Commission.
   (C)   Adoption and amendment of the compensation plan. The compensation plan
shall not be modified or changed unless submitted by the Civil Service
Commission by a majority vote of a quorum of those present and voting. When
approved by the Commission and the Board of Aldermen, the plan shall constitute
the city's compensation schedule for classes of positions in the classified
service not covered by a collective bargaining agreement for the ensuing fiscal
year and thereafter until a new compensation plan shall be adopted in the
manner prescribed.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
GRANT FUNDED POSITIONS
§ 37.055 GRANT FUNDED POSITIONS.
   (A)   Compensation approval.
      (1)   The Director of Human Resources shall approve the salaries for all
positions directly funded by a grant, unless otherwise governed by collective
bargaining agreement.
      (2)   The Director shall, to the extent it is reasonable and feasible,
ensure reasonable salary equity between grant and non-grant funded positions
where the duties and responsibilities are the same or substantially similar.
   (B)   Regulations. The Director of Human Resources shall propose regulations
pertaining to the administration and procedures affecting unclassified
employees, including, but not limited to, grant funded employees.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
DEPARTMENT HEADS AND DESIGNATED MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES
§ 37.070 COVERAGE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Pursuant to § 6B-4(c)(1)(xii) of the Charter of the city, this chapter shall
address the appointment and procedures pertaining to the conduct and
performance of department heads and designated management employees. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the appointment of the
Corporation Counsel, the Director of the Budget and other members of the
unclassified service.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.071 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEADS AND DESIGNATED MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES:
THE RULE OF FIVE.
   (A)   Appointment by the Mayor. The Mayor, except in the instances
hereinafter noted, shall appoint department heads and designated management
employees, as defined below or as otherwise set forth in this Charter or
ordinances, from the alphabetical listing of the five highest-scoring
candidates of the civil service exam submitted by the Director of Human
Resources as set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   Appointment by the Board of Aldermen.
      (1)   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint, in accordance with § 6B-2(a)
(1) of the Charter of the city, from the alphabetical listing of the five
highest-scoring candidates on the civil service exam for the position of City
Auditor.
      (2)   In addition, if the appointing authority is an elected board, then
that elected board shall appoint from the alphabetical listing of the five
highest scoring candidates on the civil service exam for any such positions.
   (C)   Role of the Director of Human Resources with respect to the rule of
five.
      (1)   The Director of Human Resources shall file the alphabetical listing
with the Mayor or appointing authority vested with the power of appointment as
set forth in this section.
      (2)   The Mayor, or other appointing authority with the power to fill the
vacancy, shall appoint any one of the five individuals on the alphabetical
listing.
   (D)   Standard of selection and the number of names to be certified. When a
personnel requisition is received for all positions, the Director of Human
Resources shall certify the five highest scoring persons on the eligible list,
including those individuals tied with the fifth scorer.
   (E)   Withdrawal or removal from certification list. In the event a
candidate withdraws or is removed by the Director of Human Resources pursuant
to the rules, then the next highest scoring candidate(s) shall be certified.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 8-15-2022)
§ 37.072 EXPIRATION OF THE CONTRACT TERM; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   At least three months prior to the expiration of the contract, the
appointing authority or designee shall notify the Director of Human Resources
and the department head or designated management employee whether the contract
will be renewed.
   (B)   In the event timely notification is not given, the contract shall be
extended by the length of the three-month period of notification or the length
indicated in the employment contract whichever is longer, except in no event
shall the extension exceed six months.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.073 EXTENSION OF THE CONTRACT TERM; VACANCY.
   (A)   Power to extend; satisfactory performance standard. The appointing
authority shall have the power to renew the contracts for succeeding three-year
periods, upon the satisfactory performance of all duties and obligations of the
person under contract; the evaluations shall be prepared in consultation with
the Director of Human Resources.
      (1)   Power to extend the contract of the Director of Human Resources.
Notwithstanding the foregoing the determination to extend the contract for the
Director of Human Resources shall be subject to the authority of the Civil
Service Commission.
      (2)   Evaluation of satisfactory performance.
         (a)   The appointing authority or Civil Service Commission shall
exercise its discretion on the basis of an evaluation of satisfactory
performance, which shall be conducted by the immediate supervisor of the
department head or designated management employee, as designated by the Mayor.
         (b)   The evaluation criterion shall be prepared in conjunction with
the Department of Human Resources or professional consultants hired by said
Department.
      (3)   No rights created. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained
herein shall require, or create a right to, such extension.
   (B)   Decision not to extend; vacancy. If the contract is not so extended
and the three-year term expires thereby creating a vacancy, or, if a vacancy
otherwise exists for any reason, the Mayor or appropriate appointing authority
is authorized to appoint a replacement, subject to the provisions of the
Charter of the city, including the provisions governing civil service.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.074 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS BY CERTAIN DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   Objective. In order to execute the administrative and operational
policies and priorities of their respective departments, the Superintendent of
Police, the Chief Engineer of the Fire Department and the Director of Public
Works may appoint the unclassified administrative officials set forth in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Appointing authorities. For purposes of this section, the department
heads set forth in division (A) above shall be deemed the appointing authority
of the following unclassified administrative officials:
      (1)   Deputy Superintendent of Police. The Deputy shall have held the
permanent rank of lieutenant, or above, in the city. If no internal candidate
is willing to serve or, if the Superintendent determines that no qualified
internal candidate is available and acceptable to the Superintendent, the
Superintendent may appoint a deputy from a state or municipal police force
where the job experience would be comparable, qualitatively and quantitatively
to the rank of lieutenant or above in the city.
      (2)   Assistant Chief Engineer of the Fire Department. The Assistant
shall have held the permanent rank of battalion chief, or above, in the city.
If no internal candidate is willing to serve or, if the Chief Engineer
determines that no qualified internal candidate is available and acceptable to
the Chief Engineer, the Chief Engineer may appoint an assistant from a state or
municipal fire department where the job experience would be comparable,
qualitatively and quantitatively to the rank of battalion chief or above in the
city.
      (3)   Deputy Public Works Directors for Operations and Services. The
Deputies shall have held the position of department head or Bureau Chief. If no
internal candidate is willing to serve or, if the Director determines that no
qualified internal candidate is available and acceptable to the Director, the
Director may appoint an external candidate whose job experience would be
comparable, qualitatively and quantitatively, to the position of department
head or Bureau Chief.
   (C)   Term of unclassified administrative officials. The unclassified
administrative officials set forth in division (B) above shall serve at will.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
HIRING AND PROMOTION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
§ 37.085 APPLICATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS.
   The Civil Service Commission shall adopt regulations authorizing the
Director of Human Resources to administer the examination to the applicants for
employment by the city.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.086 REJECTION OF CANDIDATES AND APPLICATIONS.
   The Director of Human Resources may reject any application which indicates
that the applicant is deficient in any one, several or all of the requirements
as specified in the public announcement of the examination and/or does not
satisfactorily complete the prescribed application forms. The Civil Service
Commission may adopt regulations establishing standards for rejection.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.087 QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPETITIVE EXAMINATIONS FOR ENTRY LEVEL AND
PROMOTIONAL APPOINTMENTS: THE GENERAL RULE.
   (A)   Entry level and promotional appointments. As required by §§ 6B-4(c)(1)
(ii) and 6B-4(d)(1) of the Charter of the city, the Commission is authorized to
establish qualifications and competitive examinations (unless the rules provide
to the contrary) for entry level and promotional appointments.
   (B)   Vacancies in the competitive division. Vacancies in the competitive
division shall be filled by examination unless the Director of Human Resources
rules that the vacancies should be filled by transfer, demotion or
certification from re-employment lists.
   (C)   Pre-screening. The Director of Human Resources may pre-screen
applicants to reduce the pool of candidates that will be eligible for testing.
The process shall not be utilized in police or fire hiring and is intended for
use where there are large numbers of applicants for a single incumbent position
or a limited number of positions.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.088 SELECTION OF EMPLOYEES FOR APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION.
   (A)   The rule of one. The rule of one shall apply to the initial
appointment of all candidates for entry-level appointments to sworn positions
at the Police and Fire Departments.
      (1)   Standard of selection. The Director of Human Resources shall
certify the highest ranking person on the appropriate eligible list to fill a
vacancy(ies).
      (2)   Tie break for police and fire entry examinations. For police and
fire entry examinations, when two or more applicants receive the same final
score, the following criteria shall be applied to break the tie for rank: The
applicant having scored highest on that phase of the examination bearing the
most weight (or if necessary, the next highest weighted examination component,
and so on) shall rank ahead and if the tie persists, the applicant scoring
highest on the first examination phase administered (or if necessary, the
second phase administered, and so on) shall rank ahead and if the tie persists,
the applicant who is a resident of the city shall rank ahead. If the tie
persists, it shall be broken by a random method to be prescribed by the Human
Resources Director, subject to the approval of the Civil Service Commission.
   (B)   The rule of three. The rule of three shall apply to the initial
appointment and promotion of all other employees of the city and to the
promotion of all sworn employees of the Police and Fire Departments, with the
exception of those employees subject to the rule of five, as set forth in §
37.071.
      (1)   Standard of selection. The Director of Human Resources shall
certify the three highest scoring persons in alphabetical order on the
appropriate eligible list to fill a vacancy.
      (2)   Number of names to be certified. When a personnel requisition is
received for all positions, except entry-level police and fire positions, the
Director of Human Resources shall certify the top three scorers including those
individuals tied with the third scorer from an eligible list. The Director
shall file the certified names with the appropriate appointing authority. In
the event the appointing authority is a board or commission the listing shall
be filed with the appropriate department head or, in the case of the Board of
Aldermen, the President.
   (C)   Withdrawal or removal from certification list.
      (1)   In the event a candidate withdraws or is removed by the Director of
Human Resources, pursuant to the rules, prior to interview, then the next
highest scoring candidate(s) shall be certified.
      (2)   If a candidate withdraws or is removed after the interview, then
the appointing authority may request additional candidates or make a selection
from those interviewed.
   (D)   Regulations regarding examinations. In accordance with § 6B-4(c)(1)
(iii) of the Charter of the city, the Civil Service Commission shall establish
regulations pertaining to the standards established for examinations.
   (E)   Role of the Director of Human Resources. In the event an eligibility
list is diminished to fewer than the minimum number of candidates for
appointment and promotion, as set forth in this section, the list shall be
deemed null and void; unless the Director of Human Resources certifies that the
number of individuals who applied for the job in accordance with the dates set
in the job posting were fewer than the minimum number of candidates on the
eligibility list.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.089 METHOD OF RATING.
   The Civil Service Commission shall prepare regulations authorizing the
Director of Human Resources to establish a minimum rating by which eligibility
may be achieved on examinations.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.090 NOTIFICATION OF EXAMINATION RESULTS AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Each person who takes an examination shall be given notice as to whether or
not he qualified on the examination, and as to his relative standing on the
list or of his failure to attain a place on the list. Each person shall be
entitled to review all records that the Director of Human Resources is
permitted to release in accordance with the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.091 CORRECTION OF RATING: APPEAL.
   Candidates for examinations may appeal to the Director of Human Resources
for correction of their ratings upon presentation of proof that their
examinations have been incorrectly rated. Any request for correction shall
occur within ten days of the postmark on the results letter. Any request for
correction in the rating, after the review period, shall not be considered.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.092 ELIGIBLE LISTS FOR APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION.
   (A)   Eligible lists. As required by § 6B-4(c)(1)(iii) of the Charter of the
city, the Commission shall establish eligible lists for appointment and
promotion. The names of successful candidates shall be placed on the list in
the order of the relative excellence based upon qualifications, record of
performance, seniority and examination grades.
      (1)   Duration of lists. The lists shall continue in force for two years,
unless a new examination is held and the eligible list is established prior to
the expiration of the two-year period or the list is exhausted.
      (2)   Duration of lists of police officers and firefighters. In the case
of entry-level police officers and firefighter eligibility lists, the list
shall be established for a period of three years, unless, prior to the
expiration period, a new examination is held and eligible list established.
      (3)   Lists with fewer than the required eligible names. When the Human
Resources Department has posted for a position for at least 30 calendar days
and has insufficient number of applicants to administer a test, it may
establish a list and certify the names of those qualified to the appointing
authority or department head, who may appoint from the list or request a new
recruitment be commenced.
      (4)   Availability of eligibles and removal of names from eligible lists.
The Commission shall prepare regulations setting forth the conditions for
remaining on and removal from eligible lists.
      (5)   Public inspection. All such lists shall be available for public
inspection.
   (B)   Re-employment lists.
      (1)   Employee who resigned: general re-employment list. A permanent
employee separated from the service by resignation may, within a period of six
months after date of separation, make a request to be placed on a general re-
employment list for the class from which he was separated provided he has
successfully passed his probationary position.
         (a)   To be eligible for re-employment and placement on the general
re-employment list, the former employee may be required to:
            1.   Complete other pre-employment requirements to the satisfaction
of the Director of Human Resources; and
            2.   Submit an affirmative recommendation from the employee's
department head at the time of resignation.
         (b)   The Director of Human Resources may waive this provision
whenever he deems it advisable.
      (2)   Laid off employee; the preferred re-employment list. The name of a
permanent employee who has been laid off as a result of a reduction in force or
whose position has been abolished shall be placed on the preferred re-
employment list for the class of positions that he occupied at the time of
separation.
      (3)   General.
         (a)   Placement on re-employment lists: seniority. Names shall be
placed on re-employment lists in order of seniority, provided that the
employees shall have the ability and be able to perform the duties of the
position.
         (b)   Duration of general re-employment list. The eligibility of any
person on a general re-employment list will expire six months from the date on
which his name was placed on the eligible list.
         (c)   Duration of preferred re-employment list. The eligibility of any
person on preferred re-employment lists will be governed by pertinent
collective bargaining agreement. Employees not covered by collective bargaining
agreement shall have their names placed on a preferred re-employment list for a
period of two years.
         (d)   Certification from general re-employment list. Those individuals
on the general re-employment list may be certified for consideration along with
other eligible individuals from an open list.
   (C)   Promotional lists. The Director of Human Resources shall establish
promotional lists from which vacancies can be filled in the competitive
division.
      (1)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled by promotion consistent with
the procedures set forth herein and the promotions shall be on a competitive
basis, except where the Director of Human Resources with the approval of the
Civil Service Commission and the appointing authority, finds that competition
is impracticable.
      (2)   Contents of promotional lists. Promotional lists shall consist of
qualified eligibles from among the classified employees of the city. The lists
may be established on a service-wide or a department-wide basis as determined
by the Director of Human Resources.
   (D)   Employment lists. When the Director of Human Resources determines that
there are insufficient numbers of internal candidates to consider for a given
position or it is impractical to establish adequate promotional lists, the
Director may fill positions from a higher-level list within the classifications
series.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.093 CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE LISTS.
   (A)   Request for certification; requisition. All requisitions for the
filling of vacancies shall be made on official forms as designated by the
Director of Human Resources.
   (B)   Method of filling vacancies. Vacancies may be filled by transfer,
demotion or certification from:
      (1)   Preferred re-employment lists;
      (2)   Promotional lists;
      (3)   General re-employment lists;
      (4)   Eligible lists; or
      (5)   Employment lists.
   (C)   Order of lists for certification.
      (1)   Eligibles shall be certified from lists in the order named as
follows:
         (a)   Preferred re-employment list;
         (b)   Promotional list;
         (c)   Open/combined list; and
         (d)   Open employment list.
      (2)   Eligibles on the general re-employment list shall be certified
pursuant hereto.
   (D)   Withdrawal or removal from certification list. In the event a
candidate withdraws or is removed by the Director of Human Resources pursuant
to the rules, then the next ranked candidate(s) shall be certified.
   (E)   Number of names to be certified. When a personnel requisition is
received for all positions, the Director of Human Resources shall certify the
eligible candidates as set forth in §§
37.071 and
37.088.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.094 ANTICIPATION OF NEED.
   (A)   Advance notice. Insofar as possible, Departmental vacancies shall be
anticipated sufficiently in advance to permit the Director of Human Resources
to determine who may be available for appointment, and to establish an eligible
list. If a new class is necessary, sufficient time must be allowed to prepare a
class specification, to have the position classification plan amended by the
Civil Service Commission and to have the compensation plan amended by the Civil
Service Commission and the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Semi-annual review by department heads. By December 1 and June 1 of
each year, each department head shall conduct a personnel utilization needs
study of his department and report to the Director of Human Resources
anticipated personnel requirements for the forthcoming six-month period.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.095 APPROPRIATE ELIGIBLE LISTS.
   Certification shall ordinarily be made from a list established for the
particular class in which the vacancy exists. However, if no such list exists
or the list contains an insufficient number of eligibles for certification
purposes, the Director of Human Resources may, in his discretion, certify names
from an appropriate eligible list if such a list is available. Such a list
shall be for a class of the same or higher pay level with the qualification
requirements equal to or superior to the class in which the vacancy exists.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.096 PART-TIME POSITIONS.
   The Director of Human Resources, at his discretion, may authorize the
filling of part-time positions involving less than 25 hours of work per week
without regard to examination, or to other provisions regarding certification
included in this regulation. The Civil Service Commission must approve all
appointments to part-time positions before employment commences. Persons
employed under such conditions shall not achieve permanent status except as
provided elsewhere in this regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 37.097 INTERPRETATION.
   The Director of Human Resources is authorized to make necessary
administrative interpretations concerning certification and appointment matters
not inconsistent with these personnel regulations or Charter amendment.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.098 REJECTION OF CANDIDATES.
   The Director of Human Resources may reject candidates or eligibles who fail
to comply with reasonable requirements in regard to such factors as physical
condition, training and experience, or who have attempted any deception or
fraud in connection with an examination.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.099 CREDIT ALLOWANCES.
   As set forth in § 6B-4(c)(4) of the Charter of the city, there shall be the
following credit allowances on all civil service examinations and appointments.
   (A)   American veterans and disabled American veterans. As set forth by the
Charter of the city a preference of five points for American veterans and ten
points for disabled American veterans shall be provided on all examinations in
classified service. The qualifications and the maximum allowable allowance are
set forth in the general statutes.
   (B)   City residents. The minimum credit allowance as set forth in the
Charter of the city. City residents shall receive a ten point credit allowance
on civil service examinations for entry level positions, which shall include
entry level Firefighter and Maintainer 1.
   (C)   Entry level positions, applicable to said credit allowance shall be
designated and posted by the Human Resource Director. Thereafter, the proposed
designation as posted by the Director of Human Resources shall be submitted to
the Civil Service Commission for approval of the characterization as “entry
level” with consideration given to the applicable job description and other
relevant factors and shall include entry level Firefighter and Maintainer 1.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2011; Ord. passed 2-22-2016; Ord. passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 3-9-
2020)
§ 37.100 PROBATION PERIOD.
   (A)   General. As required by § 6B-4(c)(1)(iv) of the Charter of the city,
there shall be a period of probation not to exceed six months before an
appointment may be made permanent, and during which period a probationer may,
with the consent of the Director of Human Resources, be discharged, reduced in
class or rank, or be replaced by someone on the eligible list. In the case of a
promotion, the probationary period shall not exceed three months, in which
period of time the probationer may be reduced, with the consent of the Director
of Human Resources, to the position he held prior to the promotion.
   (B)   Regulations.   The Civil Service Commission shall propose regulations
pertaining to the probation period.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.101 PROVISIONAL, ACTING, EMERGENCY, TEMPORARY AND LIMITED TERM
APPOINTMENTS WITHOUT EXAMINATIONS.
   As required by § 6B-4(c)(1)(iv) of the Charter of the city, there shall be:
   (A)   Acting appointments. An appointing authority, subject to the approval
of the Director of Human Resources, may make an acting appointment of an
employee to a position in which a temporary vacancy exists, by virtue of the
temporary absence of the incumbent employee, and where it is expected that the
incumbent employee will return. The acting appointee shall meet the minimum
qualifications for the position;
   (B)   Provisional appointments. An appointing authority, subject to the
approval of the Director of Human Resources, may make a provisional appointment
of an individual who meets the minimum qualifications to a vacant position in a
class for which no appropriate eligible list exists.
      (1)   Duration of provisional appointment. A provisional appointment
shall expire automatically, in the case of a promotional appointment, six
months or, in the case of an open competitive appointment, 12 months from the
date of the appointment or within 30 days after the establishment of an
eligible list, whichever is sooner, unless extended by the Director of Human
Resources, as set forth below.
      (2)   Extension. The Director of Human Resources may, in his sole
discretion, extend the duration of a provisional appointment by making a
written request to the Civil Service Commission, stating the reasons therefore,
including, but not limited to, current recruitment efforts by the city.
   (C)   Emergency appointment. When an emergency involving the serious
impairment of the public business makes it impossible to fill a position in the
competitive division by the normal procedure, the Mayor or other authorized
person may appoint any qualified person to the position in order to prevent
stoppage of public business or loss, or serious inconvenience to the public.
Any such person shall be employed only during the emergency and for a period
not exceeding 30 days. A vacancy of which the department head has had
reasonable notice, or an employment condition of which he had, or might with
due diligence have had, previous knowledge, shall not be considered an
emergency under this section;
   (D)   Temporary appointments. Temporary employees shall be appointed from
eligible lists, if the lists exist. If no such list exists, the Director of
Human Resources may authorize the Department Head to recommend a person of his
own choosing subject to the approval of the Director of Human Resources.
Temporary appointments may also be made when there exists a vacancy in a
permanent position because of an absence of the incumbent employee and the
appointing authority has determined it will not be filled through an acting
appointment. The person appointed under this section shall meet the minimum
qualifications for the position and shall not be employed in the position for
longer than one year;
   (E)   Credited service. Experience gained in those positions above shall
receive no credit in the experience and training part of any Civil Service
Examination or credit toward the minimum qualifications; and
   (F)   Limited term appointments. Vacancies created by a military leave of
absence without pay shall be filled by a limited term appointment by
certification from an eligible list in the same manner used for other
appointments. A person holding a limited term appointment may be terminated
when the person he is replacing returns to the position. If the person being
replaced fails to return on the termination of his leave, the resulting vacancy
shall be filled in the same manner as other vacancies.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 37.102 DISCRIMINATION AND ETHICAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person in the classified service of the city or seeking admission
thereto shall be appointed, promoted, reduced, removed or in any way favored or
discriminated against because of his race, national origin, sexual orientation,
disability, religious beliefs, opinions or affiliations except those that
advocate the overthrow of the government by force.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or corruptly make any false statement,
certification, mark, rating or report in regard to any test, certification,
promotion, reduction, removal or appointment held or made under the provisions
of this subchapter, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud
preventing the impartial execution hereof or of the rules and regulations made
in accordance herewith. No person shall either directly or indirectly pay,
render or give any money, service or other valuable thing to any person for or
on account of, or in connection with any test, appointment, promotion,
reduction or removal in which he is concerned.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS AND DEMOTIONS
§ 37.115 PROMOTIONAL POLICY.
   Vacancies in higher positions shall be filled by promotion from lower
classes, except where the Director of Human Resources finds that competition is
not in the best interest of the city. Applicants must meet the minimum
qualifications as established. When the Director of Human Resources determines
that there is an insufficient number of well qualified eligibles within the
service, he may direct that the competitive examination of the positions shall
be open not only to members of the competitive division but also to all other
qualified persons.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.116 POLITICAL OR PARTISAN ENDORSEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No consideration shall be given to political or partisan endorsement for
promotions to positions in the competitive division; only merit and fitness for
promotion shall be considered.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.117 PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS.
   The Director of Human Resources shall conduct competitive promotional
examinations in accordance with the personnel regulations. In competitive
promotional examinations, the Director shall admit to the examination all
employees who meet the published qualification requirements. In unassembled
examinations, he may establish appropriate rating schedules which may credit as
appropriate the experience, training and service ratings of the applicants. The
Director of Human Resources may create career ladders whereby employees can
obtain promotions, without competition, by obtaining specialized training or
certifications that will enable the employee to be “promoted in place”. This
shall not apply in police or fire promotional examinations.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.118 TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Intra-departmental transfers. The appropriate department head may, at
any time, transfer an employee in the competitive division under his
jurisdiction from one position to another in the same class in the same
department. An intra-departmental transfer of an employee to a position of
another class shall be made only with approval of the Director of Human
Resources. The Director of Human Resources shall be notified of the change in
assignment.
   (B)   Inter-departmental transfers.
      (1)   A transfer of an employee from one department to another must have
the approval of both department heads concerned, the Director of Human
Resources and the Mayor.
      (2)   Requests for the transfer shall show how the employee concerned
meets the qualification requirements of the class to which the transfer is
proposed.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.119 PAY GRADE AFTER TRANSFER.
   An employee who is transferred shall continue at his same pay rate, except
as otherwise provided.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.120 VOLUNTARY DEMOTIONS.
   (A)   Employee request.
      (1)   An employee may be demoted at his own request to a vacant position
in a lower class subject to the approval of the Director of Human Resources.
      (2)   The Director of Human Resources shall determine whether the
employee is qualified to perform the duties and responsibilities of the lower
classification.
   (B)   Pay grade after voluntary demotion. Any employee who voluntarily
requests to be demoted or transferred to his former position, a comparable one
in which he has satisfactorily completed his working test period or to a
position in a lower pay grade (in which position the Director of Human
Resources approved the employee’s compliance with the specifications) shall,
subject to the approval of the Human Resources Director, be placed on that step
in the pay range for the position to which he is demoted or transferred that he
would have attained, except for the period he held the position from which he
was voluntarily demoted or transferred.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 37.121 SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   When a condition, situation or problem arises which impedes the
effective operation of the city government and which may be ameliorated or
resolved by the assignment of an employee from one department to another
department, from a classified position to another classified position, or from
the classified service to the unclassified service, the Mayor may request the
assignment.
   (B)   The Mayor shall submit the request for assignment in writing to the
Civil Service Commission setting forth the reasons therefore. The request for
assignment shall be effective upon approval by a majority vote of the
Commission for a period to be determined by the Commission but not to exceed
one year. The Mayor, subject to the approval of the Commission, may request
extensions of the period of assignment.
   (C)   The assigned employee shall receive his normal rate of pay or the
minimum rate of the range established for the position to which he is assigned,
whichever is greater. The employee shall continue to receive, during the period
of assignment, all the city benefits, rights and privileges inuring to the
category or classification from which he was assigned. The employee shall
continue to be governed by civil service rules and regulations during the
period of assignment and shall be returned at the expiration of the assignment
period to the position from which he was assigned. Experience gained in an
assigned position shall receive no credit in the experience and training part
of any civil service examination or credited toward the minimum qualifications.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
§ 37.135 OBJECTIVE.
   The Civil Service Commission shall propose regulations establishing a system
for evaluating the work performance of all employees, to be administered by the
Director of Human Resources. The purpose of the employee performance evaluation
shall be primarily to inform employees on how well they are performing their
work and how they can improve their work performance. The performance
evaluation may also be used in determining salary increments; as a factor in
determining order of lay off; as a basis for training, promotion, demotion,
transfer or dismissal; and for such other purposes as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
SEPARATION
§ 37.150 SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT.
   An employee may be separated from the service of the city by any one of the
methods described below.
   (A)   Resignation. To resign in good standing, an employee should give, in
writing, his division head or department head at least 14 calendar days’ prior
notice. Normally, failure to comply with this rule shall be entered on the
service record of the employee and shall result in a denial of re-employment
rights. However, the division or department head, with the approval of the
Director of Human Resources, may exempt an employee who has given less than the
required notice, if, in his judgment, exceptional circumstances warrant the
exemption.
   (B)   Compulsory resignation. An employee who, without valid reason, fails
to report to work for three consecutive workdays without authorized leave shall
be separated from the payroll and reported as a compulsory resignation. The
employee is not eligible for re-employment.
   (C)   Lay-offs. Any involuntary separation not involving delinquency,
misconduct or inefficiency shall be considered a lay-off.
      (1)   When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force in a
Department or division, because of lack of funds or other causes, employees
shall be laid off on the basis of seniority provided that the employees
retained shall have the ability and be able to perform the duties of the
position.
      (2)   If a permanent employee is scheduled to be laid off, he may be
offered a demotion to a lower class if qualified, as determined by the Director
of Human Resources, and a suitable vacancy exists. Salary placement shall be
determined by the Director of Human Resources.
      (3)   Prior to reduction in force, the names and job titles of any and
all permanent employees scheduled for lay-off shall be submitted to the
Department of Human Resources for approval. The Director of Human Resources
must approve and confirm the names submitted for lay-off before any lay-off is
consummated.
      (4)   Permanent employees shall be notified in writing by the department
head of their lay-off at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of
the lay-off.
   (D)   Disability. A department head or the Mayor may direct any employee
under his jurisdiction to be examined by a physician selected by the city to
determine if the employee can perform the essential functions of his job with a
reasonable accommodation. If the employee is unable to perform the essential
functions, he shall be laid off or, if eligible, be retired, in accordance with
the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act as amended from time to
time.
   (E)   Loss of job requirements. Any employee who is unable to perform his
job duties because of a loss of a necessary license or other requirement shall
be separated by a lay-off unless the employee is qualified to perform the work
in another position in the Department, there is a vacancy and the placement is
approved by the Director of Human Resources.
   (F)   Dismissals. Dismissals are discharges or separations made for
delinquency, misconduct, inefficiency or inability to perform the work of the
position satisfactorily.
      (1)   Reasons for dismissal. Dismissals of permanent employees shall be
effective only after the person to be discharged has been presented with the
reasons for the discharge, specifically stated and has been allowed a
reasonable time to reply to the charges in writing. The reasons and the reply
shall be filed with the Director of Human Resources.
      (2)   Right to hearing. The person to be discharged shall have the right
to a hearing, not precluding representation by any individual or organization
of his own choosing, before the Civil Service Commission. The decision of the
majority of the members of the Civil Service Commission shall be final.
      (3)   Dismissal of probationary employees. Dismissals of probationary
employees shall not be subject to appeal to the Civil Service Commission.
      (4)   Effect of collective bargaining agreements. Notwithstanding the
foregoing this provision shall not apply to employees whose appeal rights are
set forth pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
   (G)   Dismissal or removal of department heads. Dismissals or removal of
department heads or designated management employees (as may be set forth in
this Charter or ordinances) shall be conducted as required by the Charter of
the city, as may be further supplemented by ordinance or employment contract.
   (H)   Death. When a permanent employee dies while in the classified service
of the civil service of the city, his estate shall be eligible to receive his
accumulated annual leave, pursuant to the applicable employment contract or
collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
§ 37.165 TYPES OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   General. Except as otherwise provided for by the general statutes and
the provisions of applicable collective bargaining agreement, the following
provisions shall govern disciplinary actions affecting employees in the
classified and unclassified service.
      (1)   Dismissals. See §
37.150(F).
      (2)   Suspensions. A department head may, for disciplinary purposes,
suspend without pay any employee in his department for a length of time as he
considers appropriate, not exceeding 15 working days. The department head shall
furnish, to the affected employee, a written statement specifically setting
forth reasons for the suspension, a copy of which shall be filed with the
Director of Human Resources. With the approval of the Civil Service Commission,
an employee may be suspended for a longer period.
      (3)   Demotions. With the prior approval of the appointing authority and
the Director of Human Resources, a department head may demote for cause, an
employee to a lower grade that will result in a reduction of pay. The
department head shall furnish, to the affected employee, a written statement of
the reasons for the action, a copy of which shall be filed with the Director of
Human Resources at least five days prior to the proposed effective date of the
action.
   (B)   Regulations. The Civil Service Commission shall set forth, with
specificity, the reasons for disciplinary action and the procedures to be
followed, including, but not limited to, appeals.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
EMPLOYEE AND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
§ 37.180 EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Policy. The Director of Human Resources shall cooperate with
appointing authorities, employees and others, to foster and promote programs of
training for the city service and in-service training of employees for the
purpose of improving the quality of services rendered by employees on behalf of
the city and of aiding employees to equip themselves for advancement in the
service.
   (B)   Administration of employee development program. The Director of Human
Resources shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the Mayor or department heads, as appropriate,
standards for training programs and programs for approval as meeting such
standards;
      (2)   See that training is carried out as approved and shall prepare
certificates or other forms of recognition to persons who satisfactorily
complete approved courses and programs;
      (3)   Assist department heads in developing and conducting training to
meet the specific needs of their departments and in developing and utilizing
other techniques for increasing employee efficiency;
      (4)   Develop and conduct supervisory and management training and others
types of training and employee development programs common to all departments;
      (5)   Assist department heads in establishing standards of performance
and procedures for evaluating employee efficiency;
      (6)   Make available information concerning job requirements and training
opportunities in order to assist employees in increasing their efficiency in
their present positions, and in preparing themselves for promotions to higher
positions in the city service; and
      (7)   Keep a record of all approved training programs and courses and a
record of employees who successfully complete such courses and programs.
   (C)   Welfare program. The Director of Human Resources may cooperate with
appointing authorities, department heads, employees and others to promote
measures directed towards more sanitary, safe and healthful working conditions,
affording better facilities for recreation, greater security and economic
advantage as by means of group insurance and credit union facilities, and any
other means of bettering the conditions and improving the morale of city
employees.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
ATTENDANCE AND LEAVE
§ 37.195 ATTENDANCE AND HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   Attendance. Each department head shall be responsible for the
attendance of all persons in his department and, accordingly, shall keep
complete attendance records including vacation, sick, compensatory, overtime
and the like. Records of attendance shall be reported as provided in §
37.005(B)(4) of the code of ordinances. Leave shall be authorized in units of
days and hours only.
   (B)   Hours of work. The Mayor shall establish the work-week and work
schedules for each department. The hours of work for the professional non-
teaching personnel in the Department of Education shall be established by the
Board of Education.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.196 AMENDMENTS TO THE ANNUAL COMPENSATION PLAN.
   The following payments or expenditures pertaining to overtime, holidays and
leaves for employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit shall be
proposed by the Civil Service Commission and submitted to the Board of Aldermen
pursuant hereto as an amendment to the compensation plan:
   (A)   Overtime. Any payment for overtime and the method of computation or
any provision for compensatory leave;
   (B)   Holidays. A list of days that are to be designated holidays; and
   (C)   Annual, sick and special leave policy. Policies pertaining to annual,
sick and special leave, including total accumulation and payments for unused
sick.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.197 EMPLOYEE LEAVE POLICIES.
   The Civil Service Commission shall adopt regulations pertaining to the
administration of leave policies for employees.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
APPEALS AND GRIEVANCES
§ 37.210 POLICY.
   The most effective accomplishment of the work of the city requires prompt
consideration and equitable adjustment of employee grievances. It is the desire
of the city to adjust grievances informally, and both supervisors and employees
are expected to make every effort to resolve problems as they arise. However,
it is recognized that there will be grievances, which will be resolved only
after a formal appeal and review. The Civil Service Commission shall propose
regulations pertaining to appeals and grievances for employees not covered by a
collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 37.225 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective in the manner in which ordinances take
effect, as set forth in the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.226 SEPARABILITY.
   The adjudging of any portion of
Chapter 37 to be invalid shall not affect the validity of any other portion
thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
§ 37.999 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The penalty provisions of § 12A-7 of the Charter shall not be abrogated by
the adoption of this code and therefore shall remain in full force and effect
and shall be recodified as part of Chapter 6 of the Charter.
(Ord. passed 12-22-2003)
CHAPTER 38: CENTRALIZED PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
Section
Commencement of Procurement Process
   
38.001   Purposes: rules of construction
   
38.002   Definitions
   
38.003   Requisition
   
38.004   Encumbrance of funds
   
38.005   Preparation of specifications
Procurement Process: Solicitation and Award; Methods of Source Selection
   
38.020   Methods of source selection
   
38.021   Competitive sealed bidding
   
38.022   Competitive sealed proposals
   
38.023   Requests for qualifications
   
38.024   Recurring procurements
   
38.025   Small purchases
   
38.026   Sole source procurement
   
38.027   Procurements pertaining to public emergencies
   
38.028   Waiver of bid or proposal requirement: extraordinary conditions
   
38.029   Exempt services
   
38.030   Exempt investment and insurance
   
38.031   Record of procurement actions taken with regard to sole source, waiver
and emergency procurements
   
38.032   Federal and state procurement standards: application for competitive
grants
   
38.033   Federal procurement subject to Section 3
Cancellation of Invitations for Bids or Request for Proposals
   
38.045   Cancellation of invitation for bids or requests for proposals; waiver
of minor irregularities
Qualifications and Duties
   
38.046   Responsibility of bidders and offerors
   
38.047   Prequalification of suppliers
   
38.048   Substantiation of offered prices
   
38.049   Preference for bidders and offerors located in the city
   
38.050   Reporting of anti-competitive practices
Determinations
   
38.051   Retention of procurement records
   
38.052   Finality of determinations
Contracts and Purchase Orders
   
38.065   Obligations of persons seeking a contract or purchase order with the
city; affidavits, disclosures and encumbrances
   
38.066   Disclosures required by the federal or state governments
   
38.067   Contractor accounting requirements
   
38.068   Purchase orders; when required
   
38.069   Contracts; when required
   
38.070   Exceptions
   
38.071   Issuance of purchase orders
   
38.072   Execution of contracts
   
38.073   Amendments to contracts
Legal Clauses and Fiscal Responsibility
   
38.085   Legal clauses for contracts or purchase orders and their
administration
   
38.086   Cancellation due to unavailability of funds in succeeding fiscal
years: non-appropriation
   
38.087   Contract provisions pertaining to an ordinance regarding the hiring of
Waterbury residents on certain publicly-funded construction projects
Bonds, Insurance and Guarantees
   
38.100   Bid or proposal security
   
38.101   Contract performance and payment bonds
   
38.102   Authority to require additional security
Legal and Contractual Remedies
   
38.115   Authority to resolve protested solicitations and awards
   
38.116   Authority to debar or suspend
   
38.117   Authority to resolve contract or purchase order and breach of term
controversies
Intergovernmental Relations
   
38.130   Cooperative purchasing authorized
Vendor Payment
   
38.145   Payment processing requirements
   
38.146   Payment
   
38.147   Payment by credit card
General Regulations
   
38.160   Supplementary general principles of law applicable
   
38.161   Requirement of good faith
   
38.162   Application of this chapter
   
38.163   Severability
   
38.164   Construction against implicit repealer
   
38.165   Effective date
   
38.166   Determinations
Public Access
   
38.180   Public access to procurement information
   
38.181   Authorization for the use of electronic transmissions
Procurement Organization and Leadership
   
38.195   Charter authority for the Department of Purchases
   
38.196   Authority and duties of the Department of Purchases
Director of Purchasing
   
38.210   Charter authority for the Director of Purchasing
   
38.211   Appointment and qualifications
   
38.212   Tenure, removal and compensation
   
38.213   Authority of the Director of Purchasing
Organizational Issues Pertaining to Public Procurement and Management
   
38.225   Centralization of procurement authority
   
38.226   Delegation of authority by the Director of Purchasing
Role of the Corporation Counsel
   
38.227   Authority to contract for legal services
   
38.228   Contracts to be approved by the corporation counsel
   
38.229   Duties of the corporation counsel
Role of Using Agencies or Department Heads
   
38.230   Estimate of needs
   
38.231   Roles and responsibilities of using agencies, department heads and
others pertaining to the procurement system
City Procurement Regulations and Policies
   
38.245   Regulations
   
38.246   Prohibition against the delegation of the power to promulgate
regulations and establish policy
   
38.247   Regulations and policies shall not change existing contract rights
COMMENCEMENT OF PROCUREMENT PROCESS
§ 38.001 PURPOSES: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Interpretation. This chapter shall be construed and applied to promote
the underlying purposes and objectives pertaining to the centralized
procurement system, as set forth in the Charter and herein.
   (B)   Purposes and objectives regarding the centralized procurement system.
The underlying purposes and objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To simplify, clarify and modernize the provisions governing
procurement for the city;
      (2)   To permit the continued development of the best procurement
practices as required by the Charter of the city;
      (3)   To provide for increased public confidence in the procedures
followed in public procurement by the city;
      (4)   To ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons and
entities that deal with the procurement system of the city;
      (5)   To provide increased economy in city procurement activities and to
maximize, to the fullest extent practicable, the purchasing value of public
funds expended by the city, taking into account, where applicable, performance
and cost of contracts and purchase orders;
      (6)   To foster effective broad-based competitive values and protocols
within the centralized procurement system;
      (7)   To provide safeguards for the maintenance of a procurement system
of quality and integrity; and
      (8)   To obtain in a cost-effective and responsive manner the
commodities, services and construction required by the agencies of the city in
order to better serve the residents of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATED ENTITY. An entity (including any natural person) which is
currently engaged in a relationship with another entity, or which was engaged
in such a relationship at any time during which any facts or circumstances
germane to issues governed by any provision of this chapter arose (for example:
an entity which is not currently related but was related as an affiliated
entity at the time when currently past due taxes of the principal entity, or of
the affiliated entity, became due and payable etc.), if as a consequence of the
relationship the entity directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with
another entity.
      Note: For purposes of this definition, CONTROL shall mean having the
power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of another
entity through any direct or indirect means. Control will be presumed to exist
if any entity, directly or indirectly owns, controls, holds with power to vote,
or holds proxies representing, 20% or more of any voting securities or
membership interests in another entity.
   AGENCY. An entity, authority, board, bureau, commission, department,
government corporation, legislative body or official of the city over which the
city exercises budgetary or administrative responsibility and which uses
commodities, equipment, materials, supplies or contractual services.
   ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES.
      (1)   Professional services of an architectural or engineering nature, as
defined by state law, if applicable, which are required to be performed or
provided by a person licensed, registered or certified to provide the services
as described herein;
      (2)   Professional services of an architectural or engineering nature
performed by contract that are associated with research, planning, development,
design, construction, alteration or repair of city property or other property
or space in which the city has an interest; and
      (3)   Such other professional services of an architectural or engineering
nature, or incidental services, which members of the architectural and
engineering professions (and individuals in their employ) may logically or
justifiably perform, including: studies, investigations, surveying, mapping,
tests, evaluations, consultation, comprehensive planning, program management,
conceptual designs, plans and specifications, value engineering, construction
phase services, soils engineering, drawing reviews, preparation of operating
and maintenance manuals and other related services.
   BLANKET OR CONSOLIDATED PURCHASE. An arrangement under which a purchaser
contracts with a vendor to provide the purchaser's requirements for a commodity
or service, on an as-required and often over-the-counter basis. The order or
purchase shall contain a limit on the period of time it is valid and the
maximum amount of money that may be spent at one time or within a specified
time period.
   BUSINESS. Any individual or sole proprietorship, partnership, firm,
corporation, trust, limited liability company, limited liability partnership,
joint stock company, joint venture or other legal entity through which business
for profit or not for profit is conducted.
   CHANGE ORDER. A written order made within the context of the scope of
services and amount of the contract or purchase order, signed by the official
(s) designated by the appropriate department head, directing the contractor to
make changes, which are authorized by the contract or purchase order.
   CITY FUNDS. All appropriations set forth in the general and capital budgets,
including projects identified in the long-term capital plan, and funds
appropriated in the water and water pollution control enterprise fund budgets.
   COMMODITIES. An article of trade, a movable article of value, something that
is bought or sold; any movable or tangible thing that is produced or used as
the subject of barter or sale. When used alone, the term COMMODITIES shall
include EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES.
   COMPETITIVE GRANT PROCESS. A process that commences with an application for
funding that is scored and ranked by relative merit (in comparison to proposals
submitted by other applicants) based upon specific criteria established by the
funder, in order to determine grant award recipients.
   COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATION. A procedure for contracting for commodities,
contractual services (including construction), in which:
      (1)   Proposals are solicited from qualified suppliers by a request for
proposals; and
      (2)   Changes may be negotiated in proposals and prices after being
submitted.
   COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSAL PROCESS. The purchasing process set forth
herein. The process shall include the utilization of competitive negotiation.
   CONSTRUCTION. The process of building, altering, repairing, improving or
demolishing any public infrastructure facility, including any public structure,
public building or other public improvements of any kind to city property or
other property or space in which the city has an interest. It does not include
the routine operation, routine repair or routine maintenance of any existing
public infrastructure facility, including structures, buildings or real
property.
   CONSTRUCTION ITEM. Commodities or services involved in the process of
building, designing, altering or repairing a public structure or building, or
other improvements to any city property. It does not include routine operation,
routine repair or routine maintenance of existing structures, buildings or
property.
   CONTRACT. A written agreement between two or more competent persons to
perform or not to perform a specific act or acts pertaining to services and
professional services or as otherwise set forth in this chapter. Whenever a
subcontract exists under procurements approved under this chapter, the
requirements applicable to "contracts" shall be applicable to "subcontracts".
Whenever the term AGREEMENT is used in this chapter, it shall mean either a
contract or purchase order depending on the context.
   CONTRACT MODIFICATION OR AMENDMENT. Any written alteration in
specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price,
quantity or other provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of
the parties to the contract, other than change orders, which were previously
defined.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person having a contract or purchase order with the city or
any of its agencies.
   DATA. Recorded information, regardless of form or characteristic.
   DESIGN-BUILD-FINANCE-OPERATE-MAINTAIN. A project delivery method in which
the city enters into a single contract for at least two of the following:
design, construction, finance, maintenance, and operation of an infrastructure
facility over the contractually defined period.
   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
      (1)   The written description of the infrastructure facility or service
to be procured hereunder, including:
         (a)   Required features, functions, characteristics, qualities and
properties that are required by the city;
         (b)   The anticipated schedule, including start, duration and
completion; and
         (c)   Estimated budgets (as applicable to the specific procurement)
for design, construction, operation and maintenance.
      (2)   The design requirements may, but need not, include drawings and
other documents illustrating the scale and relationship of the features,
functions and characteristics of the project.
   DESIGNEE. A duly authorized representative of a person holding a superior
position.
   DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING or PURCHASING AGENT. The person holding the position
established in § 7C-4(b) of the Charter of the city as the head of the
centralized procurement system and the procurement officer of the city.
   ELECTRONIC. Electrical, digital, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic or any
other similar technology.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by the city, whether as a classified or
unclassified, permanent or temporary, full-time or part-time employee, or
employed by contract on a continuing basis and all employees of the board of
education. For purposes of this chapter, the term EMPLOYEE may include public
officials.
   EQUIPMENT. Personal property of a durable nature that retains its identity
throughout its useful life.
   ESTABLISHED CATALOG PRICE. The price included in a catalog, price list,
schedule or other form that:
      (1)   Is regularly maintained by a manufacturer or contractor;
      (2)   Is either published or otherwise available for inspection by
customers; and
      (3)   States prices at which sales are currently or were last made to a
significant number of any category of buyer or buyers constituting the general
buying public for the commodities or services involved.
   EXCESS SUPPLIES. Any supplies other than expendable supplies having a
remaining useful life but which are no longer required by the using agency in
possession of the supplies.
   EXPENDABLE SUPPLIES. All tangible supplies other than non-expendable
supplies.
   GRANT or LOAN. The furnishing by the government of assistance, whether
financial or otherwise, to any person to support a program authorized by law.
   HUD. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. A building; structure; or networks of buildings,
structures, pipes, controls and equipment that provide transportation,
utilities, public education or public safety services. Included are government
office buildings, public schools; jails; water treatment plants, distribution
systems and pumping stations; waste water treatment plant, collections systems
and pumping stations; solid waste disposal plants, incinerators, landfills and
related facilities; public roads and streets; highways; public parking
facilities; public transportation systems, terminals and rolling stock; rail,
air and water port structures, terminals and equipment.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting bids.
   LEASE. A contract conveying from one person to another use of real estate or
personal property for a designated period of time in return for total payment
or other compensation.
   LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT. A lease containing a purchase option in which the
lessee's periodic payments or parts thereof may be applied to serve both as the
rental obligation and as installments for acquiring ownership of the property
upon lessee's exercising the purchase option; a conditional sales contract.
   MATERIALS. Items required to perform a function or used in a manufacturing
process, particularly those incorporated into an end product or consumed in its
manufacture.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MULTI-STEP COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDDING. A competitive process calling for
separate  submissions of proposals or responses following the issuance of a
request for information, request for qualifications or other solicitation prior
to the issuance of an invitation for bid. The issuance of these solicitations
may constitute the first step or steps of a process followed by a call for non-
negotiable competitive-price bid. A request for qualifications may also be
utilized as the first step in the competitive sealed proposal process.
   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE. A project delivery method whereby the city
enters into a single contract for the routine operation, routine repair and
routine maintenance of an infrastructure facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, corporation, limited liability company,
estate, trust, syndicate, union, other organization or group or association of
individuals however formed.
   POLICIES. The policies pertinent to this chapter established by the Director
of Purchases.
   PROCUREMENT. Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing or otherwise acquiring any
commodities, services, property or construction or obtaining a benefit from the
city even in the event the city is not responsible for compensation. It also
includes all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any commodity, service
or construction, including description of requirements, selection and
solicitation of sources, preparation and award of a contract or purchase order,
and all phases of contract administration.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
      (1)   Any type of service to the public that requires that members of a
profession rendering such service obtain a license or other legal authorization
as a condition precedent to the rendition thereof, limited to the professional
services of architects, professional engineers or jointly by architects and
professional engineers, landscape architects, certified public accountants and
public accountants, land surveyors, attorneys-at-law, psychologists, licensed
marital and family therapists, licensed professional counselors and licensed
clinical social workers as well as such other professional services set forth,
now or hereafter, in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 33-182a or as established by ordinance.
      (2)   A CONTRACT FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES may refer to individuals or to
business entities established:
         (a)   For the sole and specific purpose of rendering professional
services and which has as its owners, members, partners or shareholders only
individuals who themselves are licensed or otherwise legally authorized to
render the same professional service as the business entity; or
         (b)   For the sole and specific purpose of rendering professional
services by members of two or more of the following professions: psychology,
marital and family therapy, social work, nursing, professional counseling and
psychiatry and that has as its owners, members, partners or shareholders only
individuals who themselves are licensed or otherwise legally authorized to
render one of the professional services for which the business entity was
created.
   PROPOSAL DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTS. Drawings and other design related documents
that are sufficient to fix and describe the size and character of an
infrastructure facility as to architectural, structural, mechanical and
electrical systems, materials and such other elements as may be appropriate to
the applicable project delivery method.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. The distribution or dissemination of information to
interested parties using methods that are reasonably available and comport with
the requirements of the freedom of information laws set forth in the state
general statutes. Such methods will often include publication in newspapers of
general circulation, electronic or paper mailing lists and web site(s)
designated by the city and maintained for that purpose.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected officer or official, any person appointed to
any office, board or commission of the city by the Mayor or Board of Aldermen,
or a department head of the city appointed by the Mayor, as set forth in the
Charter or ordinances, with or without the approval of the Board of Aldermen.
   PURCHASE ORDER. A document that formalizes certain purchase transactions
with the city. The PURCHASE ORDER shall contain statements as to the quantity,
description and price of the items ordered; legal terms and conditions;
applicable terms as to payment discounts, date of performance and
transportation and other factors or suitable references pertinent to the
purchase and its execution by the vendor. Delivery of the services or
commodities set forth in a purchase order constitutes acceptance and the
creation of an enforceable contractual obligation by the vendor. Whenever the
term AGREEMENT is used in this chapter, it shall mean either a contract or
purchase order depending on the context.
   REGULATION. A governmental body's statement, having general or particular
applicability and future effect, designed to implement, interpret or prescribe
law.
   REQUEST FOR INFORMATION. The document used in informal, uncompetitive
solicitation of information, data, comments or reactions from possible
suppliers preceding the issuance of a request for proposal, a request for
qualifications or an invitation for bid.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS. The solicitation document used in the competitive
sealed proposals process. The procedure allows changes to be made to the
responses after other proposals are opened and contemplates that the scope of
services of the proposals and/or prices offered will be negotiated prior to
award.
   REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATION. The solicitation document generally used to seek
information required for the pre-qualification of a bidder or offeror and used
in the solicitation of an architect or engineer.
   SECTION 3. Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as
amended (12 U.S.C. § 1701u).
   SECTION 3 POLICY. City of Waterbury Section 3 Policy as approved by the
Board of Aldermen and as may be amended from time to time.
   SERVICES  or CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time or effort
by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end product other
than reports, which are merely incidental to the required performance,
including the furnishing of such labor, time or effort through a vendor
providing workers to the city. This term shall include the design, development
and implementation of technology, communications or telecommunications systems
or the infrastructure pertaining thereto, including hardware and software.
Moreover, this term shall include services for which a contractor is conferred
a benefit by the city, whether or not compensated by the city. This term shall
not include employment agreements, collective bargaining agreements or
professional services, as defined herein.
   SHALL. Imperative.
   SPECIFICATION.
      (1)   Any description of the physical or functional characteristics, or
of the nature of a commodity, service or construction item. It may include a
description of any requirement for inspecting, testing or preparing a
commodity, service or construction item for delivery.
      (2)   The specifications are to be attached to or, otherwise, made a part
of the solicitation.
   SUPPLIES. Items that are consumed or expended in the course of being used,
as distinguished from equipment or materials or items that are the property of
the city, including, but not limited to, insurance and printing materials.
   SURPLUS SUPPLIES. Any supplies other than expendable supplies that no longer
have any use to the city. This includes obsolete supplies, scrap metals and
non-expendable supplies that have completed their useful life cycle.
   TAXES. When that term is used herein with regard to "delinquent" or "back"
taxes, shall include any amounts owed to the city, or to any of its agencies or
subordinate or related entities, for any and all service fees or charges and
any and all assessments and any and all fines or penalties as may have been
assessed by the city or the agencies or subordinate or related entities
including, but not limited to, water and sewer use charges, fines due pursuant
to parking tickets issued.
   TRANSFER OF APPROPRIATION. An authorization, made pursuant to the Charter
and ordinances, to shift apart or all of the sum budgeted for one appropriation
to another General Fund appropriation.
   USING AGENCY. See AGENCY.
   VENDOR. With respect to any transaction, agreement, contract or other
arrangement for which the solicitation or consummation thereof is otherwise
governed by the provisions of this
Chapter 38, any person or entity which or who, in relation to the transaction,
agreement, contract or other arrangement, is providing, or proposing to
provide, any goods, services, interest in property of any kind or other thing
of value to the city, or any person receiving, or proposing to receive, any
service, interest in property of any kind or other thing of value from the,
city and any other person or entity otherwise entering into, in any capacity,
any such transaction with the city.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The product of any method of forming characters on
paper, other materials or viewable screens, which can be read, retrieved, and
reproduced, including information that is electronically transmitted and
stored.
   YEAR. The calendar year. Where the FISCAL YEAR is so intended, it shall be
specifically referenced. The FISCAL YEAR of the city commences on July 1 and
ends on June 30, or as otherwise mandated by the state.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005; Ord. passed 2-21-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 38.003 REQUISITION.
   (A)   At the commencement of the procurement process, the using agency shall
file either:
      (1)   With the Budget Director, a requisition for the acquisition of
services, commodities or leases; or
      (2)   Other notice of intent to the Director of Purchasing according to
policies or practices established by the Director of Purchasing.
   (B)   Upon commencing the procurement process for services to be performed
on a covered project, as that term is defined in §
34.17, Definitions, of Chapter 34, entitled Hiring of Waterbury Residents on
Certain Publicly-Funded Construction Projects (the “Good Jobs Ordinance”), of
the Code of Waterbury, the using agency commencing the process shall provide
written notice to the Administrator of the Good Jobs Ordinance that the
procurement process has commenced and identify the covered project that is the
subject of the procurement in question.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
§ 38.004 ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Encumbrance of funds.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, the Mayor shall not execute a contract
or the Director of Purchasing shall not issue a purchase order until the Budget
Director has:
         (a)   Certified the availability of unexpended appropriated city
funds;
         (b)   Encumbered such city funds, as defined below; or
         (c)   Determined that funds in the proposed municipal or state budgets
or from other sources will be available on or after July 1 of the ensuing
fiscal year, for the commodity, services or leases set forth in a requisition.
      (2)   The city shall make no payment and no obligation shall be incurred
against any appropriation unless the encumbrance required of the Budget
Director by this provision is contained in the records of the city.
   (B)   Encumbrance of other funds and funding sources.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, the Mayor shall not execute a contract
or the Director of Purchasing shall not issue a purchase order until the Budget
Director has certified the availability of funds pursuant to the terms of an
executed and effective grant, loan or reimbursement program of the federal or
state governments, or their subdivisions.
      (2)   The city shall make no payment and no obligation shall be incurred
against any federal or state grant, loan or reimbursement agreement unless the
encumbrance required of the Budget Director by this provision is contained in
the records of the city.
   (C)   Encumbrance of funds for multi-year agreements or options to extend.
The city shall make no payment and no obligation shall be incurred for multi-
year obligations or options to extend for all Contracts set forth in divisions
(A) and (B) above, unless an encumbrance of funds occurs, for which annual
appropriation is required.
      (1)   Responsibility of the department head. Except for capital projects
that are funded from a capital improvement fund, the department head shall, on
an annual basis, be responsible for requesting an encumbrance through the
filing of a requisition of the multi-year contract following approval of the
budget for the subsequent year.
      (2)   Encumbrance by the Budget Director. The encumbrance shall include
the same findings required of the Budget Director in initially encumbering the
funds.
   (D)   Valid obligation. No contract or purchase order shall be the valid
obligation of the city unless certified by the Budget Director prior to
execution thereof. No using agency shall incur any liability or expense by
contract, purchase order or otherwise for which the city shall be responsible,
in excess of the appropriations so authorized by the Board of Aldermen or in
excess of the amounts contained in federal or state grants, loans or
reimbursements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not apply
to exempt transactions pursuant hereto.
   (E)   Consequences of executing contracts and purchase orders in violation
of the Charter and code of ordinances.
      (1)   Expenditures and obligations voided. Every expenditure or
obligation authorized or incurred in violation of this chapter shall be void,
unless approved by the Budget Director and the Director of Purchasing.
      (2)   Violative payments deemed illegal: joint and several liability for
public officials, employees and other persons. Payments made in violation of
the provisions of the Charter and this chapter shall be deemed illegal and all
public officials and employees who shall authorize or make the payment, or
cause the payment to authorized or made, and all persons who shall receive the
payment or any part thereof shall be jointly and severally liable to the city
for the full amount so paid or received.
      (3)   Cause for removal or termination of employment. If any public
official or employee of the city shall knowingly incur any obligation or shall
authorize or make any expenditure in violation of this provision, the action
shall be cause for removal from office or termination of employment.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.005 PREPARATION OF SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. In accordance with the schedule or any regulations or
policies established by the Director of Purchasing, the using agency shall
prepare specifications (including, but not limited to, standard terms and
conditions), which shall be attached or included in the bid or proposal
documents set forth herein.
      (1)   Assistance to the using agencies. The Director of Purchasing may
retain or authorize the retention of expert advisors to assist the using
agencies.
      (2)   Maximum practicable competition. All specifications shall seek to
promote overall economy for the purposes intended and encourage competition in
satisfying the city's needs, and shall not be unduly restrictive.
      (3)   Specifications prepared by other than city personnel. The
requirements of this chapter regarding standards established for the
specifications shall apply to all specifications prepared by city and non-city
personnel, including, but not limited to, those prepared by architects,
engineers and designers.
   (B)   The role of the Director of Purchasing. The Director of Purchasing
shall monitor use of specifications for commodities, services and construction
required by the Department of Purchases. Moreover, the Director of Purchasing,
is authorized to issue regulations or policies as a means of setting standards
for the preparation, maintenance and content of specifications for commodities,
services and construction items required by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
PROCUREMENT PROCESS: SOLICITATION AND AWARD; METHODS OF SOURCE SELECTION
§ 38.020 METHODS OF SOURCE SELECTION.
   Unless otherwise authorized by, the Charter of the city or this code, all
contracts and purchase orders shall be awarded by one of the following methods:
   (A)   Competitive sealed bidding as set forth in §
38.021 of this chapter;
   (B)   Competitive sealed proposals as set forth in §
38.022 of this chapter;
   (C)   Request for qualifications as set forth in §
38.023 of this chapter. Architectural and engineering services shall be
solicited as set forth in §
38.023 of this chapter;
   (D)   Recurring procurements as set forth in §
38.024 of this chapter;
   (E)   Small purchases as set forth in §
38.025 of this chapter;
   (F)   Sole source procurement as set forth in §
38.026 of this chapter;
   (G)   Emergency procurements as set forth in §
38.027 of this chapter;
   (H)   Waiver of bid or proposal requirement for extraordinary conditions as
set forth in §
38.028 of this chapter;
   (I)   Exempt services are set forth in §
38.029 of this chapter;
   (J)   Investments or insurance as set forth in §
38.030 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Other methods of source selection may be established by regulation as
may be promulgated by the Director of Purchasing.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.021 COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDDING.
   (A)   Conditions for use. Purchase orders or contracts, in an amount in
excess of $10,000, shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding unless the
Director of Purchasing determines that an alternate method of source selection,
as set forth herein and the referenced sections therein of this chapter, is
appropriate.
   (B)   Invitation for bids. An invitation for bids shall be issued and shall
include specifications and any other descriptions of the commodity, and all
proposed and/or mandatory contractual terms, special terms and conditions
applicable to the procurement, other legal and regulatory requirements,
including, but not limited to, the requirements of
Chapter 93 of the Code of Ordinances. With respect to any particular invitation
for bids, the Director of Purchasing or the Corporation Counsel may vary any
clauses that may have, prior thereto, been promulgated by the Department of
Purchases for inclusion in all invitation for bids. However, the Director of
Purchasing does not have the discretion to vary the specifically enumerated
legal requirements of the code of ordinances.
   (C)   Public notice. Adequate public notice of the invitation for bids shall
be given a reasonable time period prior to the date set forth therein for the
opening of bids and in a manner that the Director of Purchasing determines will
maximize public participation and competition in the competitive sealed bidding
process.
      (1)   (a)   Generally. The notice shall be inserted, at least ten
calendar days before the final date of submitting bids, in the major daily
newspaper published in the city and may, in the sole discretion of the Director
of Purchasing, be posted on the Internet.
         (b)   Notice following pre-qualification of bidders. In the event of a
multi-step competitive or sealed bid, the notice may be sent only to the
vendors qualified to bid.
      (2)   (a)   Each notice of a planned purchase under this chapter shall
indicate the type of commodities or services to be purchased.
         (b)   The using agency shall provide the Director of Purchasing with
special notice requirements necessary to comply with the provisions of federal
or state grants, loans or reimbursement agreement, when applicable.
   (D)   Bid opening.
      (1)   Bids shall be opened publicly at the time and place designated in
the invitation for bids. The amount of each bid, and such other relevant
information as may be specified by policy adopted by the Director of
Purchasing, together with the name of each bidder shall be recorded; the record
and each bid shall be open to public inspection.
      (2)   Each bid shall be kept sealed or secured until opened publicly at
the time stated in the notice soliciting the bid.
   (E)   Bid acceptance and bid evaluation. Bids shall be unconditionally
accepted without alteration or correction, except as authorized in this
chapter. The invitation for bid may set forth the evaluation criteria to be
used. No criteria may be used in a bid evaluation that are not set forth in the
invitation for bids. In the event there is no specific evaluation criterion set
forth in the invitation for bids, evaluation will be based on a determination
of the lowest responsible, qualified and responsive bidder as set forth in this
chapter.
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. Bids shall be evaluated by the Director of
Purchasing, or the using agency and/or consultants if so designated by the
Director, based on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids, which
may include criteria to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing,
quality, workmanship, delivery and suitability for a particular purpose.
      (2)   Objectively measurable criteria. Those criteria that will affect
the bid price and be considered in evaluation for award shall be objectively
measurable, such as discounts, transportation costs, and total or life cycle
costs.
   (F)   Correction or withdrawal of bids; cancellation of awards. Correction
or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or
cancellation of awards of contracts or purchase orders based on the bid
mistakes, shall be permitted with the approval, in writing, of the Director of
Purchasing. The actions of the Director of Purchasing shall take into
consideration preservation of the integrity of the competitive sealed bidding
process under this chapter.
      (1)   Prohibited practices following bid opening. After bid opening, no
changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest
of the city or fair competition shall be permitted.
      (2)   Written determination regarding cancellation of awards or contracts
or purchase orders. Except as otherwise provided by regulation and/or policy,
all decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids, or cancel awards
of contracts or purchase orders based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a
written determination made by the Director of Purchasing.
   (G)   Award.
      (1)   Lowest responsible, qualified and responsive bidder. The contract
or purchase order shall be awarded with reasonable promptness by written notice
to the lowest responsible, qualified and responsive bidder whose bid meets the
requirements and evaluation criteria, if any, set forth in the invitation for
bids, or criteria established by the Director of Purchasing.
         (a)   In considering past performance of a bidder for the purpose of
determining the "lowest responsible, qualified and responsive bidder", the
Director of Purchasing shall evaluate the skill, ability and integrity of the
bidder in terms of the bidder's fulfillment of past contractual obligations and
the bidder's experience or lack of experience in delivering equipment,
materials, supplies or contractual services of the size or amount for which
bids have been solicited.
         (b)   The Director of Purchasing may reject any or all bids or parts
of bids or bids for any one or more commodities or contractual services, when
he shall deem that the public interest will be served.
      (2)   Construction project exception: permissible adjustment of the bid
price. Unless otherwise prohibited by federal or state law, regulation or
agency requirement, with respect to construction projects only, the Director of
Purchasing is authorized to negotiate an adjustment of the bid price, including
changes in the bid requirements, with the low responsible and responsive
bidder, in order to bring the bid within the amount of available funds, in the
event:
         (a)   All bids for a construction project exceed available funds;
         (b)   The low responsible and responsive bid does not exceed the funds
by more than 10%; and
         (c)   The time or economic considerations preclude re-solicitation of
work of a reduced scope.
   (H)   Multi-step competitive sealed bidding. When it is considered
impractical to initially issue an invitation for bid, the Director of
Purchasing may issue a request for information or request for proposals
(requesting technical information) or request for qualifications (requesting
the qualifications of bidders) as the first step(s) in the process, to be
followed by an invitation for bids which may be limited to those bidders who
have been qualified under the criteria set forth in the first solicitation.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.022 COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Conditions for use.
      (1)   Purchase orders or contracts, in excess of $10,000, may be entered
into following the issuance of competitive sealed proposals when the Director
of Purchasing determines that the use of competitive sealed bidding is either
not practicable or not advantageous to the city. As a general rule, the
competitive sealed proposal shall be utilized for services, construction
contracts and other commodities or services not susceptible to a competitive
sealed bid.
      (2)   Professional services other than architectural and engineering are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter; however, using agencies may, in the
director of purchasing's discretion, utilize the competitive sealed proposal
process set forth herein.
   (B)   Requests for proposals. Proposals shall be solicited through a request
for proposals. As required by the Director of Purchasing, a request for
information, request for qualifications or other forms of solicitation may be
utilized to ascertain information, to establish qualifications, or to establish
a list of those eligible to submit bids or proposals at subsequent steps in the
procurement process in a manner established by the Director of Purchasing. The
solicitations shall also contain, among other things, a description of the
projected scope of services or system requirements, a notice of mandatory city
contractual provisions or terms and conditions required by this chapter or
other state or federal agencies as well as the requirements of Chapter 93 of
the Code of Ordinances. Services shall be selected on the basis of a request
for proposals. The Director of Purchasing shall establish guidelines
identifying the content of requests for proposals. With respect to any
particular request for proposals, the Director of Purchasing or the Corporation
Counsel may vary any clauses that may have, prior thereto, been promulgated by
the Department of Purchases for inclusion in all request for proposals.
However, the Director of Purchasing does not have the discretion to vary the
specifically enumerated legal requirements of the code of ordinances.
   (C)   Public notice. Adequate public notice of the request for proposals
shall be given a reasonable time period prior to the date set forth therein for
the opening of proposals and in a manner that the Director of Purchasing
determines will maximize public participation and competition in the
competitive sealed proposal process.
      (1)   The notice shall be inserted, at least ten calendar days before the
final date of submitting proposals in the major daily newspaper published in
the city and may, in the sole discretion of the Director of Purchasing, be
posted on the Internet.
         (a)   Notice following pre-qualification of offerors. In the event of
pre-qualification of offerors, the notice may be sent only to the vendors
qualified to respond.
         (b)   Notice; indication. Each notice of a planned purchase under this
chapter shall indicate the type of commodities or services to be purchased.
      (2)   The using agency shall provide the Director of Purchasing with
special notice requirements necessary to comply with the provisions of federal
or state grants, loans or reimbursement agreements.
   (D)   Receipt of proposals; register of proposals. Proposals shaft be opened
publicly at the time and place designated in the request for proposals.
Proposals shall be opened and only the names of each offeror recorded so as to
avoid disclosure of contents to competing offerors during the process of
negotiation. A register of proposals shall be prepared in a format established
by the Director of Purchasing. The register shall be open for public inspection
after the award of the contract or purchase order, with the exception of
confidential trade and business information withheld in accordance with the
general statutes.
   (E)   Evaluation factors and criteria.
      (1)   The request for proposals shall state all evaluation criteria
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Demonstrated compliance with the design or other requirements;
         (b)   Offeror qualifications;
         (c)   Financial capacity;
         (d)   Project schedule;
         (e)   Price or life cycle price, where appropriate; and
         (f)   Other factors, if any.
      (2)   Not withstanding the aforementioned criteria, additional factors
may be considered at the discretion of the Director of Purchasing prior to the
opening of the proposals.
   (F)   Correction or withdrawal of proposals; cancellation of awards.
Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous proposals before or after
award, or cancellation of awards of contracts or purchase orders based on the
mistakes, may be permitted by the Director of Purchasing, provided that, the
determinations by the Director of Purchasing shall take into consideration
preservation of the integrity of the competitive sealed proposal process under
this chapter.
      (1)   Prohibited practices following opening of proposals. After opening
the proposals, no changes in prices or other provisions of proposals
prejudicial to the interest of the city or fair competition shall be permitted.
      (2)   Written determination regarding cancellation of awards or contracts
or purchase orders. Except as otherwise provided by any regulation and/or
policy, all decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of proposals, or
cancel awards of contracts or purchase orders based on proposal mistakes shall
be supported by a written determination made by the Director of Purchasing.
   (G)   Selection committee. The Director of Purchasing or his designee shall
establish a selection committee of two or more people to review responses to
requests for proposals. No member of the selection committee shall have a
financial interest in the transaction.
      (1)   Review of responses to request for proposals. The selection
committee shall evaluate the responses to requests for proposals. The selection
process may include interviews or oral presentations, with the determination of
those to be invited to be interviewed or to make an oral presentation to be
based on the established evaluation factors.
      (2)   Recommendation. Based on its review, the selection committee shall
submit to the Director of Purchasing a list, in rank order based on the
established evaluation factors, of no fewer than three firms, if possible. The
selection committee, in consultation with the Director of Purchasing, shall
determine whether negotiation with up to three of the highest rated firms or
negotiation with the highest rated firm is most practicable and advantageous to
the city.
      (3)   Negotiation with up to three highest rated firms.
         (a)   The Director of Purchasing, or his designee, may negotiate a
contract, including in regard to cost and scope, with up to three firms rated
highest by the selection committee.
         (b)   Should the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, be unable to
negotiate a satisfactory contract that he determines to be fair and reasonable
to the city with the firms selected for negotiations pursuant to this
subsection, the Director of Purchasing shall terminate the existing procurement
process.
      (4)   Negotiation with highest rated firm.
         (a)   Where the Director of Purchasing selection committee, in
consultation with the Director of Purchasing, determines that negotiation
pursuant to §
38.022(G)(3)(a) is either not practicable or not advantageous to the city, the
Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall negotiate a contract, including
in regard to cost and scope, with the firm rated highest by the selection
committee.
         (b)   Should the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, be unable to
negotiate a satisfactory contract that he determines to be fair and reasonable
to the city with the firm selected for negotiations pursuant to this
subsection, the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, may then continue this
process, starting with the next highest rated firm on the list established by
the selection committee, until such time as a contract determined by the
Director of Purchasing to be fair and reasonable to the city is negotiated or
until the Director of Purchasing determines that the existing procurement
process should be terminated.
   (H)   Award.
      (1)   Offer most advantageous to the city. Award shall be made by the
Director of Purchasing, or his designee, to the responsible offeror whose
proposal conforms to the solicitation and is determined in writing by the
Purchasing Director, or his designee, to be the most advantageous to the city,
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the request for proposals or other
solicitation, including price and the evaluation factors.
      (2)   Contents of transactional files. The contract or purchase order
files shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
      (3)   Written notice of award. Notice of the award of a contract or
purchase order shall be promptly given to the successful offeror.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005; Am. Ord. passed 2-6-2017)
§ 38.023 REQUESTS FOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Policy. The city, at the request of a using agency, may issue a
request for qualifications for services for a means of prequalifying a firm
prior to proceeding with a competitive seated bid as set forth herein or a
request for proposal as set forth herein. The remaining requirements hereof
shall be followed for those firms that are prequalified.
   (B)   Solicitation of professional service firms. The Director of Purchasing
shall, upon request of a using agency, issue a request for qualifications in
order to encourage firms engaged in the lawful practice of their profession to
submit a statement of qualifications and performance data. The request for
qualifications shall be published in appropriate trade and professional
publications in order to attain the objectives of the policies set forth in
this section.
   (C)   Selection Committee. The Director of Purchasing or his designee shall
establish a Selection Committee of two or more people to review responses to
requests for qualifications. No member of the Selection Committee shall have a
financial interest in the transaction.
      (1)   Review of responses to request for qualifications. The Selection
Committee shall evaluate the responses to requests for qualifications.
      (2)   Recommendation. Based on its review, the Selection Committee shall
submit to the Director of Purchasing a list, in rank order based on the
evaluation factors and criteria established by the Selection Committee, of no
fewer than three firms, if possible.
      (3)   Services other than architectural and engineering services. For
services other than Architectural and Engineering services, upon submission to
the Director of Purchasing of the list contemplated under division (C)(2)
above, in lieu of the negotiations as contemplated in division (C)(4) below,
invitations to bid or requests for proposals, whichever is applicable given the
nature of the procurement involved, shall be sent to those appearing on the
list. The successful bidder or respondent shall, thereafter, be chosen in
accordance with the provisions of either §
38.022 and
38.023, whichever is applicable.
      (4)   Architectural and engineering services negotiations. It is the
policy of the city to publicly announce all requirements for architectural and
engineering services and to negotiate contracts for architectural or
engineering services on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications
for the type of services required and at fair and reasonable prices.
         (a)   With respect to the procurement of Architectural and Engineering
Services costing $25,000 or more, a list of qualified firms shall be chosen as
provided for in divisions (B) and (C)(1) and (2) above. Upon submission to the
Director of Purchasing of the list contemplated under division (C)(2) above,
the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall negotiate a contract with
the highest qualified firm at the compensation, which the Director of
Purchasing, or his designee, determines in writing to be fair and reasonable to
the city.
            1.   Considerations. In preparing a decision the Director of
Purchasing, or his designee, shall take into account the estimated value, the
scope, the complexity and the professional nature of the services to be
rendered.
            2.   Failure to negotiate a contract. Should the Director of
Purchasing, or his designee, be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract
with the firm considered to be the most qualified, at a price the Director of
Purchasing determines to be fair and reasonable to the city, negotiations with
that firm shall be formally terminated. If negotiations are to continue, the
Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall then undertake negotiations with
the second most qualified firm. Failing accord with the second most qualified
firm, the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall formally terminate
negotiations. Should the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, be unable to
negotiate a contract at a fair and reasonable price with any of the selected
firms, the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall select additional
firms in order of their competence and qualifications and the Director of
Purchasing, or his designee, shall continue negotiations in accordance with
this section until an agreement is reached. If, at any time during this
process, the Director of Purchasing determines that cancellation of the
existing procurement process would be in the best interests of the city, he may
do so in writing.
         (b)   With respect to the procurement of Architectural and Engineering
Services under $25,000, all such services shall be solicited and selected in
accordance with the regulations or policies promulgated by the Director of
Purchasing.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.024 RECURRING PROCUREMENTS.
   (A)   The blanket or consolidated procurement. The Director of Purchasing
shall, wherever appropriate, consolidate the purchase of commodities or
services required by the various departments, on a recurring basis, in order to
obtain competitive sealed bids or other forms of solicitation to assure the
best possible prices. Upon award, the Director of Purchasing shall notify all
using agencies of the blanket or consolidated procurement, which shall be valid
for the fiscal year in which it was issued.
   (B)   Information. The Director of Purchasing shall circulate to all
department heads the pertinent information or catalogs relative to each blanket
or consolidated procurement.
      (1)   Submission of recurrent commodities and services. By May 1 of each
year, each department head shall submit to the Director of Purchasing an
inventory and estimated annual expenditure for commodities or services
utilized, on a recurrent basis, in the customary and usual activities of the
Department. Within 60 days thereafter, the Director of Purchasing shall
determine whether the commodities and services fall into the category of
recurrent commodities and, if so, shall solicit such recurrent commodities or
services in the appropriate manner set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Issuance of purchase orders on behalf of using agencies. Upon
notice of the award of the blanket or consolidated procurement, the using
agencies may submit a requisition, pursuant to §
38.003, for the purchase of the commodities or services. Each using agency
shall be limited to the unexpended and unencumbered funds in their budget
designated for the purchases and shall be required to file a §
38.004, an encumbrance with the Director of Purchasing.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.025 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   Small purchases between $2,500 and $9,999. All procurements where the
amount involved is less than $10,000, but equal to or greater than $2,500 shall
be made without newspaper advertisement and without observing the procedures
for the award of contracts and purchase orders.
      (1)   Price alternatives. All small purchases shall, wherever possible,
be based on at least three written price alternatives from qualified bidders,
as solicited by the Director of Purchasing or, at his discretion, a
representative of the using agency. The notice pertaining to the solicitation
shall set forth the time and place for the submission. The notice may be
tendered to qualified bidders, by telephone, facsimile or electronically. A
record of all notices and price alternatives shall be kept in the records of
the Department of Purchases.
      (2)   Award. The Director of Purchasing shall award the purchase order to
the lowest responsible bidder. If the purchase order is not given to the lowest
responsible bidder, a written explanation shall be made by the Director of
Purchasing and be filed as a public record with the other papers to the
transaction.
   (B)   Small purchases in an amount less than $2,500. All procurements where
the amount involved is less than $2,500 may be awarded on a single bid and, at
the Director's discretion, accepted orally by the using agency.
   (C)   Sustaining purchase orders. Sustaining purchase orders may be issued
by the Director, in his sole discretion, for the contingent needs of the
various departments; but no sustaining purchase orders shall exceed the sum of
$1,500.
   (D)   Artificial division of procurements prohibited. The Director of
Purchasing has the authority to determine that a using agency has artificially
divided procurement requirements so as to constitute a small purchase under
this section and thereby prohibit the using agency from utilizing the small
purchase procedures.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.026 SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   A single available source for a commodity, service or construction
item. A contract or purchase order may be awarded for a commodity, service or
construction item without competition when, under this section the Director of
Purchasing determines, in writing, that there is only one source for the
required commodity, service or construction item.
   (B)   Factors considered by the Director of Purchases. Among the factors the
Director of Purchasing may take into consideration are the following:
      (1)   Equipment, material, services or supplies for which there is no
comparable competitive product from more than one supplier;
      (2)   Public utility services from natural or regulated monopolies;
      (3)   A component or replacement part for which there is no commercially
available substitute, and which can be obtained only from the manufacturer;
      (4)   An item where compatibility is the overriding consideration, such
as computer operating software enhancements for an existing system;
      (5)   Whether there is only one authorized service provider; or
      (6)   A used item that becomes immediately available and is subject to
prior sale.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.027 PROCUREMENTS PERTAINING TO PUBLIC EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the Mayor may
authorize the Director of Purchasing to make emergency procurements when there
exists a threat to the lives, health, property, welfare or safety of the
citizens of the city.
   (A)   Determination of public emergency. To so authorize the emergency
procurements, the Mayor shall act in accordance with a determination of public
emergency by:
      (1)   The President of the United States;
      (2)   The Governor of the state;
      (3)   The affirmative vote of eight members of the Board of Aldermen; or
      (4)   The Mayor, only upon the written advice of the Director of Health
or the Superintendent of Police or Fire Chief.
   (B)   Written determination. The Mayor's authorization shall be in writing
and include a determination of the basis for the public emergency and the
reasons for the selection of the particular contractor. The determination shall
be filed with the City Clerk for public inspection within 24 hours of the
authorization and forwarded, by the City Clerk, to the Board of Aldermen and
Finance and Audit Review Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.028 WAIVER OF BID OR PROPOSAL REQUIREMENT: EXTRAORDINARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Extraordinary conditions or contingencies. Whenever a situation (that
is not deemed a public emergency, as set forth in §
38.027) exists by reason of extraordinary conditions or contingencies that
could not reasonably be foreseen and guarded against (or within the purview of
§
38.027 above), or because of unusual trade or market conditions, the Director
of Purchasing, may, if it is in the best interest of the city, waive the
competitive bid or proposal requirements set forth in §§
38.021 and
38.022. The determination shall be based upon need and shall not be utilized in
order to satisfy preferences or convenience of the using agency, for preventing
funds from lapsing at the end of a fiscal year or for any reason that would
circumvent the procurement methods set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Filing of an annual report. A statement of all purchases made under
the provisions of this section shall be set forth in the annual report of the
Finance and Audit Review Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.029 EXEMPT SERVICES.
   The following shall be exempt from the competitive bid and proposal process.
Using agencies may, nonetheless, elect to undertake a competitive selection
process to solicit professional services which are exempt from the competitive
bid and proposal process:
   (A)   Procurement of the services of attorneys-at-law hired by the
Corporation Counsel and approved by the Mayor, in accordance with the standards
set forth in § 7B-1(d)(5) of the Charter of the city;
   (B)   Procurement of professional services as defined in §
38.002;
   (C)   Procurement of architectural and engineering services where entered in
compliance with §
38.023 of this chapter;
   (D)   Procurement of services, equipment or leases of equipment that are
necessary for instruction and related services to be provided to individual
students with disabilities in accordance with the requirements of the
Individuals with Disabilities Act ("I.D.E.A.") and their respective
regulations; and
   (E)   Agreements between:
      (1)   The city, state and/or federal governments pertaining to grants; or
      (2)   The city and other community based organizations, universities and
other nonprofit entities participating as potential service providers in the
application for a competitive grant offered by the federal or state
governments.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.030 EXEMPT INVESTMENT AND INSURANCE.
   Investment of city funds, including those of the pension plan, are exempt
from the competitive bid and proposal process contained in this chapter, except
for the selection of any investment advisors or managers who direct the
investment of the funds. The placement of insurance coverage is exempt from the
competitive bid and proposal process contained in this chapter, except for the
selection of the broker who places any insurance on behalf of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.031 RECORD OF PROCUREMENT ACTIONS TAKEN WITH REGARD TO SOLE SOURCE, WAIVER
AND EMERGENCY PROCUREMENTS.
   (A)   The Director of Purchasing shall maintain a record, at the Office of
the Department of Purchases, listing all contracts or purchase orders made
under §§
38.026 through
38.028 pertaining to sole source, emergency and waiver purchases for a minimum
of five fiscal years.
   (B)   The record shall contain:
      (1)   Each contractor's name;
      (2)   The amount and type of each contract or purchase order; and
      (3)   A listing of the commodities, services or construction procured
under each contract or purchase order.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.032 FEDERAL AND STATE PROCUREMENT STANDARDS: APPLICATION FOR COMPETITIVE
GRANTS.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of this chapter, all procurements that
include funding by federal or state funds, including the application for
competitive grants, shall comply with the procurement and legal requirements of
the federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.033 FEDERAL PROCUREMENT SUBJECT TO SECTION 3.
   (A)   Whenever a recipient receives HUD housing or community development
program funds for a project in excess of $200,000, any contractor or
subcontractor procured under this chapter for work on such project for a
contract in excess of $100,000, shall comply with the city’s Section 3 Policy.
The Section 3 Policy shall apply to every contractor or subcontractor meeting
the $100,000 threshold.
   (B)   The city shall notify all potential contractors and subcontractors of
the Section 3 Policy by including a copy of, or information from, the Section 3
Policy in any request for proposal, bid package and/or contract associated with
a Section 3 project. A copy of the Section 3 Policy shall also be made
available for review and inspection at the following locations: City Clerk’s
Office, 235 Grand Street, Waterbury, CT; City of Waterbury Purchasing
Department, 235 Grand Street, Waterbury, CT and Waterbury Development
Corporation, 24 Leavenworth Street, Waterbury, CT; as well as on the Purchasing
Department website: http://www.waterburyct.org/content/458/930/933.aspx and the
Waterbury Development Corporation website: http://www.wdconline.org.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
CANCELLATION OF INVITATIONS FOR BIDS OR REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
§ 38.045 CANCELLATION OF INVITATION FOR BIDS OR REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS; WAIVER
OF MINOR IRREGULARITIES.
   (A)   Cancellation. The Director of Purchasing may:
      (1)   Cancel an invitation for bids, a request for proposals or other
solicitation; or
      (2)   Reject any or all bids or proposals, in whole or in part, as may be
specified in the invitation for bids, request for proposals, or other
solicitation, when he deems it in the best interest of the city, in accordance
with regulations and/or policies, if any. The Director shall set forth his
reasons, in writing, which shall be part of the contract file. No written
determination shall be required for the cancellation of an entire invitation
for bid or request for proposals.
   (B)   Waiver of minor irregularities. The Director of Purchasing may waive
minor irregularities in bids and proposals if he determines that such a waiver
would be in the best interest of the city. The Director of Purchasing shall
state the reasons for any such waiver in writing and include such statement in
the contract file.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES
§ 38.046 RESPONSIBILITY OF BIDDERS AND OFFERORS.
   (A)   Determination of nonresponsibility. The Director of Purchasing shall
make a determination of nonresponsibility of a bidder or offeror. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in
connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror. The
Director of Purchasing may seek the advice of the using agency and the
consultants, if any. If requested by the bidder or offeror deemed
nonresponsible the Director of Purchasing may provide a written determination.
   (B)   Right of nondisclosure. To the extent permitted by the state general
statutes, confidential information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to
this chapter shall not be disclosed outside of the Department of Purchases
without prior written consent by the bidder or offeror.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.047 PREQUALIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS.
   As set forth herein, prospective suppliers may be prequalified for
particular types of commodities, services and construction. The Director of
Purchasing shall determine the method of submitting prequalification
information and the information required in order to be prequalified.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.048 SUBSTANTIATION OF OFFERED PRICES.
   The Director of Purchasing may request factual information reasonably
available to the bidder or offeror to substantiate that the price or cost
offered, or some portion of it, is reasonable.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.049 PREFERENCE FOR BIDDERS AND OFFERORS LOCATED IN THE CITY.
   A preference shall be given to a qualified bidder or offeror whose business
is located in the city whose bid or proposal falls within 2% of the lowest bid
or the preferred proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 2% preference
shall not apply when the bid or proposal exceeds the amount of $20,000 over the
lowest qualified bid or preferred proposal. This provision shall apply to
commodities or services that are funded entirely by the city general or capital
funds.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.050 REPORTING OF ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES.
   When for any reason collusion or other anticompetitive practices are
suspected among any bidders or offerors, a notice of the relevant facts shall
be transmitted to the Corporation Counsel who shall refer the matter to the
Attorney General of the State of Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
DETERMINATIONS
§ 38.051 RETENTION OF PROCUREMENT RECORDS.
   All procurement records shall be retained and disposed of in accordance with
the records retention guidelines established by the laws of the State of
Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.052 FINALITY OF DETERMINATIONS.
   The determinations of the Director of Purchasing required by the following
sections are final and conclusive:
   (A)   Section
38.069(D) (Contracts: Sale, Lease or Rental of City Property);
   (B)   Section
38.021(F) (Competitive Sealed Bidding — Correction or Withdrawal of Bids;
Cancellation of Awards);
   (C)   Section
38.022(A) (Competitive Sealed Proposals — Conditions for Use);
   (D)   Section
38.022(H) (Competitive Sealed Proposals — Award);
   (E)   Section
38.023 (Requests for Qualifications);
   (F)   Section
38.024 (Recurring Procurements);
   (G)   Section
38.025 (Small Purchases);
   (H)   Section
38.026 (Sole Source Procurement);
   (I)   Section
38.027 (Procurements Pertaining to Public Emergencies);
   (J)   Section
38.028 (Waiver of Bid or Proposal Requirements);
   (K)   Section
38.029 (Exempt Services);
   (L)   Section
38.032 (Federal and State Procurement Standards);
   (M)   Section
38.046(A) (Responsibility of Bidders and Offerors — Determination of
Nonresponsibility);
   (N)   Section
38.048 (Substantiation of Offered Prices);
   (O)   Section
38.049 (Preference for Bidders and Offerors Located in the City); and
   (P)   Section
38.067 (Contractor Accounting Requirements).
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASE ORDERS
§ 38.065 OBLIGATIONS OF PERSONS SEEKING A CONTRACT OR PURCHASE ORDER WITH THE
CITY; AFFIDAVITS, DISCLOSURES AND ENCUMBRANCES.
   (A)   (1)   No contract, regardless of how procured, shall be awarded by the
city to any person until the following documents have been received by the
city:
         (a)   An affidavit of the person that the person, or affiliated
entity, has no delinquent taxes or other financial obligation owed to the city;
and
         (b)   Disclosures as required by
Chapter 39 this code.
      (2)   The affidavits and disclosures, if not submitted as part of
competitive bid provisions, shall be obtained by the city agency or official
seeking the contract.
   (B)   No contract, regardless of how procured, shall be awarded by the city
to any person until a certification has been obtained from the Tax Collector
for the city that the person or any affiliated entity, either directly or
through a lease, has no back taxes.
   (C)   No purchase order shall be awarded;
      (1)   In the event it has been determined that a bidder, offeror or any
affiliated entity, either directly or through a lease, owes back taxes to the
city; and/or
      (2)   In the event it has been determined that the bidder, offeror or any
affiliated entity has not filed a current list of taxable personal property as
required by the general statutes; unless it is otherwise certified that the
person is not required to file the list.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.066 DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY THE FEDERAL OR STATE GOVERNMENTS.
   In addition to the foregoing, no contract or purchase order shall be awarded
by the city to any person, until all affidavits, disclosures and certifications
required by the federal or state governments have been executed and delivered
as required.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.067 CONTRACTOR ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The city may require contractors to submit appropriate documentation prior
to the award of contracts or purchase orders in which the city agrees to
reimburse costs, confirming that:
   (A)   The proposed contractor's accounting system will permit timely
development of all necessary cost data in the form required by the specific
contract type contemplated; and
   (B)   The proposed contractor's accounting system is adequate to allocate
costs, if required, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.068 PURCHASE ORDERS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Purchase orders shall be required for all commodities regardless of the
amount, unless the Director of Purchasing determines that a contract is
necessary. All agreements for services and professional services in an amount
less than $50,000 shall be documented by purchase order, unless the scope of
services requires the utilization of a contract, as determined by the Director
of Purchasing following consultation with the Corporation Counsel.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.069 CONTRACTS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   When required. Contracts shall be required for leases (or other real
estate agreements) and for all services and professional services in the amount
of $50,000 or more.
   (B)   Grants with the federal or state government.
      (1)   Required documentation. All grants with the federal or state
government, otherwise exempt from certain provisions of this chapter, shall be
documented in writing and executed as set forth in §
38.072.
      (2)   Required review. All federal or state government grant requests and
applications other than those for the Board of Education shall be reviewed by
the Office of the City's Budget Director prior to submission.
      (3)   Required approvals. All grant applications and contracts may be
subject to approval by the Board of Aldermen if required by federal or state
law or as may be otherwise set forth in this code. Notwithstanding the
exemption of grants from any other provisions of this
Chapter 38, the city will not execute a written agreement pertaining to grants
that require matching funds by the city, unless approved by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (C)   Grants with other agencies.
      (1)   Required documentation. All grants with agencies other than the
federal or state government (other agencies), which are otherwise exempt from
certain provisions of this chapter, shall be documented in writing and executed
as set forth in §
38.072.
      (2)   Required review. All other agencies grant requests and applications
shall be reviewed by the Office of the City's Budget Director prior to
submission.
      (3)   Required approvals. All other agencies grant contracts shall be
subject to review and approval of the Director of Finance and Corporation
Counsel. Notwithstanding the exemption of grants from any other provisions of
this
Chapter 38, the city will not execute a written agreement pertaining to grants
that require matching funds by the city, unless approved by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (D)   Sale, lease or rental of city property. Rental, lease, purchase and
lease/purchase agreements shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter
for competition. The Director of Purchasing shall determine the method of
selection and issue a written determination relating thereto. The forgoing
notwithstanding, any agreement to transfer or dispose of any city held interest
in real property is subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   The Director of Purchasing shall instruct the City Planner to
compile and maintain a list of all real property in which the city may have an
interest which, in the opinion of the City Planner, are eligible for transfer
or disposition by the city. The list shall, for each interest in real property
appearing thereon, include a description of any conditions to which any such
transfer or disposition must be subject in order to ensure the property's use
in compliance with any city plan, neighborhood revitalization plan or other
similar plan or plans, (as that term is defined under applicable laws, statutes
and ordinances), which may have been adopted by, or is otherwise in effect, at
the time of the transfer or disposition. The City Planner shall make
determinations as to the ownership of any such real property in which the city
is suspected to have an interest only after consultation with the Corporation
Counsel.
      (2)   Any such transfer or disposition must first be requested in writing
by, or recommended in writing by, the using agency, if any, having direct
control over the interest in, real property prior to its transfer or
disposition and the City's Property Manager (as designated by the Director of
Finance). If any such request or recommendation is made by the Property Manager
without identifying a using agency having direct control over the interest, the
Property Manager's request or recommendation shall state the reasons for
concluding that no using agency is identifiable. If a request or recommendation
for such a transfer or disposition is made by a using agency, then the request
or recommendation must be forwarded to the Property Manager for approval of the
transfer or disposition prior to initiating further proceedings to effectuate
the transfer or disposition.
      (3)   The city may entertain requests for transfer or disposition of any
interest in real property from members of the general public and the requests
shall be directed to the Property Manager. Upon receipt of such a request by
the Property Manager, the Property Manager shall have the discretion to refuse
to process the request. Any refusal to process the request shall, upon the
request of any interested party, be subject to review by the Board of Aldermen
and, upon a simple majority vote thereof, may be overridden.
      (4)   If a request for transfer or disposition as contemplated under
division (D)(3) above is received and a decision to process the same is made,
either by the Property Manager or by the Board of Aldermen subsequent to a
review of a refusal by the Property Manager, the Property Manager must then
determine which using agency has direct control over the interest in real
property and obtain the using agency's written approval of the transfer or
disposition. If no such using agency can be identified, the Property Manager
shall state in writing the reasons for concluding that no using agency is
identifiable.
      (5)   Prior to approving any transfer or disposition, the Property
Manager shall be responsible for assuring that the interest in real property
sought to be transferred or disposed of appears upon the aforementioned list
prepared by the City Planner. If the interest does not appear on the list, then
the Property Manager must obtain written authorization for the City Planner for
the transfer or disposition. The City Planner's authorization must also state
any and all conditions, as mentioned in division (D)(1) above, to which any
such transfer or disposition must be subject or state that no such conditions
exist.
      (6)   After obtaining any and all approvals as may be required pursuant
to divisions (D)(1) through (5) above, the Property Manager shall, subject to
the approval of the Purchasing Director, choose the method of solicitation of
bids to be used relative to the given transfer or disposition. Thereafter, and
after consultation with the Director of Purchasing and the Corporation Counsel,
the Property Manager shall prepare any required solicitation documents relative
to the transfer and disposition of the interest in real property in question.
The documents shall include, amongst other things, any relevant selection
criteria as recommended by the Director of Purchasing. Upon the completion of
the solicitation documents, they shall be presented by the Property Manager to
the Director of Purchasing for final approval. The Director of Purchasing
shall, thereafter and after consultation with the Corporation Counsel, either
approve or reject such solicitation documents. In the event that the documents
are rejected the Director of Purchasing shall, by any reasonable means, inform
the Property Manager of the perceived deficiencies and of the Director of
Purchasing's recommendations for curing the same. Upon curing any such
deficiencies, the solicitation documents shall be resubmitted to the Director
of Purchasing for approval. Upon ultimate approval of the solicitation
documents, the Director of Purchasing shall provide written notice thereof to
the Property Manager and to the Corporation Counsel. After the approval by the
Director of Purchasing, the Director of Purchasing shall advertise such
solicitation or provide such other notice of the proposed transfer or
disposition as he deems appropriate under the solicitation method being
employed. Any approvals given by, or actions taken by, the Director of
Purchasing under this division (D)(6) shall be given or taken in a manner which
the Director of Purchasing reasonably deems to be consistent with the
principles of competition which are applicable to the solicitation of
procurements under this chapter and any restrictions or exceptions provided for
in relation to effectuating the principles hereunder.
      (7)   Upon the receipt of responses to any solicitation as contemplated
in division (D)(6) above, the Director of Purchasing shall open them in a
manner the Director deems to be consistent with the provisions applicable to
the solicitation of procurements under this chapter and shall, thereafter
establish a committee to review the same. The committee shall consist of, at a
minimum, the Director of Purchasing the Property Manager and the Chief
Executive Officer of the Waterbury Development Corporation or his designee. The
Mayor may, however, elect to participate on the committee, or to appoint a
designee to do so in his stead, if the Mayor deems it to be in the city's best
interest to do so. The committee shall either reject all bids or choose one
bidder as the successful bidder based upon the selection criteria identified in
the solicitation documents.
      (8)   The Property Manager shall prepare a recommendation to award a
contract for the transfer or disposition in question to the successful bidder
chosen as contemplated under division (D)(7) above. The Property Manager shall
submit the recommendation to the City Plan Commission for a report pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-24, as the same shall be amended from time to time. The
Property Manager shall, after a failure of the City Plan Commission to act
within the requisite statutory time period or upon issuance of a report by the
City Plan Commission, submit the recommendation, and a copy of any related City
Plan Commission report, to the Board of Aldermen for action pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the Charter of the city as same may be amended from
time to time.
      (9)   The Property Manager shall be responsible for providing the Board
of Aldermen, with any and all information required, including evidence of value
if applicable and copies of all bids or responses received by the city in
pursuant to the solicitation of the bids or responses relative to any given
property, to evaluate and take action on any such recommendation. The Property
Manager shall, furthermore, be responsible for obtaining any and all appraisals
for properties for which, in the Board's opinion as evidenced by resolution of
the Board, a transfer or disposition may be subject to referendum pursuant to
the applicable provisions of the Charter of the city, as same may be amended
from time to time.
      (10)   No such transfer or disposition as governed by this section shall
be effectuated without the terms thereof having first been included in a
contract executed by the city and the successful bidder. Such contract shall be
in a form as provided by the Corporation Counsel and shall be subject to any
and all other legal requirements relating to approvals of contracts to which
the city is a party including approval requirements contained in any applicable
state statute, the Charter of the city, this chapter and any other applicable
provisions of the code of ordinances.
      (11)   Any assignment by the city of any liens it may own, as may be
authorized pursuant to the state general statutes, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter and shall be governed by the applicable state
statutory provisions. Nothing herein, however, shall prohibit compliance with
any provisions of this chapter in relation to any such assignment if doing so
would be in city's best interest.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.070 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the requirements of §§
38.068 and
38.069, neither a purchase order or a contract shall be required for the
following:
      (1)   Natural gas or electric utilities;
      (2)   City employee expense reimbursements;
      (3)   Inter-city department charges; or
      (4)   Other expenditures at the discretion of the Director of Purchasing.
   (B)   The encumbrance of funds requirements of §
38.004 of this chapter apply to this section.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.071 ISSUANCE OF PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   Issuance by the Director of Purchasing. Requisitions by the using
agency for the purchase of all commodities regardless of the amount and
services under $50,000 shall be reviewed, encumbered and approved by the Budget
Director and processed by the Purchasing Department prior to the issuance of a
purchase order. In order to meet finance system requirements, purchase orders
shall be issued for each contract. In such cases, contract language shall
govern over purchase order language.
   (B)   Required contents. A purchase order shall not be complete without
inclusion of terms and conditions approved by the Office of the Corporation
Counsel, special terms and conditions required by federal and state government
funding sources and the identity of the personnel of the using agency
responsible for the administration of the transaction covered by the purchase
order. Further, the Director of Purchasing shall review, with the consultation
of the Corporation Counsel, if deemed necessary, the insurance and bond
requirements in order to ascertain compliance with the standards set by the
Director of Finance or his designee.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.072 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Execution by the Mayor. The Mayor, on behalf of and in the name of the
city, shall execute all contracts made by the city.
   (B)   Role of the Corporation Counsel. Upon award of a contract by the
Director of Purchasing, the Corporation Counsel or an attorney acting under the
authority of the Corporation Counsel shall approve all contracts, both as to
form and compliance with all legal requirements of the Charter. In addition to
such other legal requirements as may be examined by the Corporation Counsel, a
contract shall not be deemed to comply with the legal requirements of the
Charter if the Corporation Counsel determines that satisfactory proof of the
availability of unexpended, appropriated funds does not exist or if the file
does not include each of the following:
      (1)   A recitation, by the using agency, of the amount of funds to be
expended by the terms of the contract, including, but not limited to, a
breakdown of funds in each fiscal year of a multi-year transaction, including
an estimate of capital funds in subsequent years;
      (2)   The special terms and conditions required by federal and state
government funding sources and the identity of the personnel of the using
agency responsible for the administration of the transaction covered by the
contract; and
      (3)   The Corporation Counsel shall review the vendor-submitted insurance
and bonds in order to ascertain compliance with the standards set by the
Director of Finance or his designee.
   (C)   Approval by the Board of Aldermen. The following shall be subject to
Board of Aldermen approval:
      (1)   All contracts with the exception of contracts for services which
are the subject of an exemption hereunder in excess of $50,000;
      (2)   Any multi-year contract, accompanied by appropriate explanatory
information prepared by the Director of Purchasing,
      (3)   Contract amendments as provided in §
38.073 of this chapter;
      (4)   With respect to the disposition of the real property of the city,
the provisions of §
38.069 of this chapter shall apply with regard to required Board of Aldermen
approval; and
      (5)   "Hold harmless" or indemnification provisions, when the city
chooses to grant the same. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Mayor is
authorized to execute contracts pertaining to grants with the state or federal
governments which contain "hold harmless" or indemnification provisions that
have been reviewed by the Corporation Counsel.
   (D)   Artificial division of expenditures prohibited. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to artificially divide expenditures to circumvent the
requirements of division (C) above.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.073 AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Generally. Amendments to existing contracts shall require the
submission of a request to amend to the Board of Aldermen in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When:
         (a)   The cost of the original contract was greater than $50,000 and
the amendment is in the amount of $25,000 or more;
         (b)   The amendment would increase the contract amount to $50,000 or
greater; or
         (c)   Any amendment sought after the contract has been amended two or
more times, no matter what the dollar amount, if any, involved.
      (2)   When the amendment extends the term of the contract beyond one year
or for a period longer than a permitted multi-year agreement.
   (B)   Standards regarding the waiver of competitive procurement for
amendments. The Board of Aldermen may approve amendments without the need to
proceed with the provisions of §§
38.021,
38.022 or
38.023, in the event the Director of Purchasing makes a written determination,
supported by documentation, that:
      (1)   The amendment is consistent with the scope of services of the
original procurement; and
      (2)   Soliciting qualifications, proposals or competitive bids for the
purchase would:
         (a)   Cause a hardship for the city;
         (b)   The solicitation would result in a major increase in the cost of
such equipment, materials, supplies or contractual services; or
         (c)   The contractor is the sole source for such commodities or
services.
   (C)   Due diligence. In reaching the determination in division (A) above,
the Director of Purchasing shall state, in writing, the reasons for his
decision. The determination regarding sole source shall be made in conformity
with §
38.026.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
LEGAL CLAUSES AND FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
§ 38.085 LEGAL CLAUSES FOR CONTRACTS OR PURCHASE ORDERS AND THEIR
ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. Regulations or policies may be promulgated requiring the
inclusion in city contracts (or purchase orders, where deemed necessary by the
city) of clauses providing for time of performance, or other legal provisions,
as appropriate.
   (B)   Additional clauses. In addition to the requirement to contain a non-
appropriation clause as set forth in §
38.086 of this chapter and clauses pertaining to ethics and conflicts of
interest as set forth in
Chapter 39, the city shall address the following issues in all contracts or
purchase orders and prepare clauses, as appropriate, pertinent to the
underlying transactions:
      (1)   Liquidated damages;
      (2)   Specified excuses for delay or non-performance;
      (3)   Termination of the contract or purchase order for default; and
      (4)   Termination of the contract or purchase order, in whole or in part,
for the convenience of the city.
   (C)   Modification of required clauses. The Director of Purchasing or the
Corporation Counsel may vary clauses promulgated by the Department of Purchases
under divisions (A) and (B) of this section for inclusion in any particular
contract or purchase order; provided that, any variations are supported by a
written determination that states the circumstances justifying the variances,
and provided that notice of any such material variation be stated in the
invitation for bids or requests for proposals. However, the Director of
Purchasing does not have the discretion to vary the specifically enumerated
legal requirements of the code of ordinances.
   (D)   Section 3 contract clauses. Any contract subject to the city’s Section
3 Policy shall include all of the clauses contained in divisions (D)(1) through
(7) herein. This division (D) shall apply regardless of whether the contractor
or subcontractor (as defined in the Section 3 Policy) is a Section 3 business.
      (1)   The work to be performed under this contract is subject to the
requirements of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as
amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1701u (“Section 3”). The purpose of Section 3 is to ensure
that employment and other economic opportunities generated by HUD assistance or
HUD-assisted projects covered by Section 3, shall, to the greatest extent
feasible, be directed to low- and very low-income persons, particularly persons
who are recipients of HUD assistance for housing.
      (2)   The parties to this contract agree to comply with HUD’s regulations
in 24 C.F.R. part 135, which implement Section 3. As evidenced by their
execution of this contract, the parties to this contract certify that they are
under no contractual or other impediment that would prevent them from complying
with the part 135 regulations.
      (3)   The contractor agrees to send to each labor organization or
representative of workers with which the contractor has a collective bargaining
agreement or other understanding, if any, a notice advising the labor
organization or workers’ representative of the contractor’s commitments under
this Section 3 clause, and will post copies of the notice in conspicuous places
at the work site where both employees and applicants for training and
employment positions can see the notice. The notice shall describe the Section
3 preference, shall set forth minimum number and job titles subject to hire,
availability of apprenticeship and training positions, the qualifications for
each; and the name and location of the person(s) taking applications for each
of the positions; and the anticipated date the work shall begin.
      (4)   The contractor agrees to include this Section 3 clause in every
subcontract subject to compliance with regulations in 24 C.F.R. part 135, and
agrees to take appropriate action, as provided in an applicable provision of
the subcontract or in this Section 3 clause, upon a finding that the
subcontractor is in violation of the regulations in 24 C.F.R. part 135. The
contractor will not subcontract with any subcontractor where the contractor has
notice or knowledge that the subcontractor has been found in violation of the
regulations in 24 C.F.R. part 135.
      (5)   The contractor will certify that any vacant employment positions,
including training positions, that are filled (1) after the contractor is
selected but before the contract is executed, and (2) with persons other than
those to whom the regulations of 24 C.F.R. part 135 require employment
opportunities to be directed, were not filled to circumvent the contractor’s
obligations under 24 C.F.R. part 135.
      (6)   Noncompliance with HUD’s regulations in 24 C.F.R. part 135 may
result in sanctions, termination of this contract for default, and debarment or
suspension from future HUD assisted contracts.
      (7)   With respect to work performed in connection with Section 3 covered
Indian housing assistance, section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. § 450e) also applies to the work to be
performed under this contract. Section 7(b) requires that to the greatest
extent feasible (i) preference and opportunities for training and employment
shall be given to Indians, and (ii) preference in the award of contracts and
subcontracts shall be given to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic
enterprises. Parties to this contract that are subject to the provisions of
Section 3 and section 7(b) agree to comply with Section 3 to the maximum extent
feasible, but not in derogation of compliance with section 7(b).
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005; Ord. passed 2-21-2012)
§ 38.086 CANCELLATION DUE TO UNAVAILABILITY OF FUNDS IN SUCCEEDING FISCAL
YEARS: NON-APPROPRIATION.
   (A)   Cancellation due to unavailability of funds.
      (1)   When funds are not appropriated or otherwise made available to
support continuation of performance in a subsequent fiscal period, the contract
or purchase order shall be cancelled and the contractor shall be reimbursed for
the reasonable value of any non-recurring costs incurred but not amortized in
the price of the commodities or services delivered under the contract or
purchase order. The cost of cancellation may be paid from any appropriations
available for such purposes.
      (2)   All contracts and the terms and conditions of purchase orders
should include language to effectuate the purposes of this provision; however,
in the event language is not included in the contract or purchase order, every
person who deals with the city is bound to know the extent of its authority and
the limitations of its powers, as set forth in the Charter of the city, this
code of ordinances and any regulations or policies pertaining thereto.
   (B)   Non-appropriation clauses. A provision pertaining to the non-
appropriation of contracts and purchases orders shall be conspicuously set
forth in every contract or purchase order and any solicitation therefore.
   (C)   Waiver of non-appropriation clause. The Corporation Counsel may waive
the clause pertaining to non-appropriation setting forth the reasons for the
waiver, in writing, in accordance with regulations, if any.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.087 CONTRACT PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO AN ORDINANCE REGARDING THE HIRING OF
WATERBURY RESIDENTS ON CERTAIN PUBLICLY-FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
   (A)   The city shall, in all contracts or purchase orders for a covered
project, as that term is defined §
34.17, Definitions, of
Chapter 34, entitled Hiring Of Waterbury Residents On Certain Publicly-Funded
Construction Projects (The “Good Jobs Ordinance”), of the Code of Waterbury,
include the provisions required pursuant to §
34.22 of the Good Jobs Ordinance.
   (B)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the Director of Purchasing is hereby
authorized, with respect to any given contract, to determine that the inclusion
of the aforementioned provisions have resulted in the inability of the city to
secure a contract that is advantageous to the city. Any finding by the Director
of Purchasing pursuant to this division (B) must be made prior to the award of
the contract or purchase order in question and it must be evidenced by a
writing signed by him stating his reasons for the determination. Upon making
such a determination the Director of Purchasing shall forward a copy of the
written determination to the using agency that commenced the procurement
process relative to the contract or purchase order in question. The using
agency may then request a waiver of the requirement to include such provisions
in the subject contract or purchase order from the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2-12)
BONDS, INSURANCE AND GUARANTEES
§ 38.100 BID OR PROPOSAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Requirement for bid or proposal security. Bid or proposal security
shall be considered for all procurements when the price is estimated by the
Director of Purchasing to exceed $50,000. In all cases bid or proposal security
shall be a bond provided by a surety company authorized to do business in the
State of Connecticut, or certified check or otherwise supplied in a form
satisfactory to the city. Nothing herein prevents the requirement of such bonds
or on such contracts under $50,000 when the circumstances warrant.
   (B)   Amount of security. Bid or proposal security shall be in an amount
equal to, at least, 10% of the amount of the bid or proposal,
   (C)   Rejection of bids or proposals for non-compliance with bid or proposal
security requirements. When the invitation for bids or other solicitation
requires security, non-compliance therewith requires that the bid or proposal
be rejected.
   (D)   Withdrawal of bids or proposals. After bids or proposals are opened,
they shall be irrevocable for the period specified in the invitation for bids,
although proposals may be subject to competitive negotiation, as set forth in
this chapter. However, if the bidder is permitted, pursuant to §
38.021 or §
38.022, to withdraw its bid (or proposal) before work, or is excluded from the
competition before work, no action shall be had against the bidder or
respondent for the bid or proposal security.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.101 CONTRACT PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS.
   When a construction, maintenance, operations and maintenance, design-build-
finance-operate- maintain contract (or a variation thereof) is awarded in
excess of $50,000, the following bonds or securities shall be delivered to the
city and shall become binding upon the parties upon the execution of contract:
   (A)   A performance bond satisfactory to the city, executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in the city or otherwise secured in a manner
satisfactory to the city, in an amount equal to 100% of the contract price; and
   (B)   A payment bond satisfactory to the city, executed by a surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Connecticut or otherwise secured in a
manner satisfactory to the city, for the protection of all persons supplying
labor and material to the contractor or its subcontractors for the performance
of the work provided for in the contract. The bond shall be in an amount equal
to 100% of the portion of the contract price that does not include the cost of
operation, maintenance and finance.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.102 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE ADDITIONAL SECURITY.
   Nothing in §
38.101 shall be construed to limit the authority of the city to require
additional security.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
LEGAL AND CONTRACTUAL REMEDIES
§ 38.115 AUTHORITY TO RESOLVE PROTESTED SOLICITATIONS AND AWARDS.
   The Director of Purchasing may, in his discretion, establish, by regulation
or policy, a procedure for resolving protested solicitations or awards.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.116 AUTHORITY TO DEBAR OR SUSPEND.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   Debarment. After reasonable notice to the person involved and
reasonable opportunity for that person to be heard, the Director of Purchasing
after consultation with the using agency and the Corporation Counsel, shall
have the authority to debar a person for cause from consideration for award of
contracts or purchase orders. A debarment shall not be for a period of more
than two years.
      (2)   Suspension. After reasonable notice to the person involved and
reasonable opportunity for that person to be heard, the Director of Purchasing,
after consultation with the using agency and the Corporation Counsel, shall
have the authority to suspend a person from consideration for the awarding of
contracts or purchase orders if there is probable cause for the suspension. A
suspension shall not be for a period exceeding three months.
   (B)   Causes for debarment or suspension. The causes for debarment or
suspension include the following:
      (1)   Conviction for commission of a criminal offense as an incident to
obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract, subcontract or
purchase order, or in the performance of the contract, subcontract or purchase
order;
      (2)   Conviction under state or federal statutes of embezzlement, theft,
forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen
property or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or
business honesty which currently, seriously and directly effects responsibility
as a city contractor;
      (3)   Conviction under state or federal antitrust statutes arising out of
the submission of bids or proposals;
      (4)   Violation of contract provisions or the terms and conditions of a
purchase order, as set forth below of a character which is regarded by the
Director of Purchasing to be so serious as to justify debarment action or
suspension:
         (a)   Deliberate failure without good cause to perform in accordance
with the specifications or within the time limit provided in the contract or
purchase order; or
         (b)   A recent record of failure to perform or unsatisfactory
performance in accordance with the terms of one or more contracts or purchase
orders; provided that the failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance
caused by acts beyond the control of the contractor shall not be considered to
be the basis for debarment;
      (5)   Any other cause the Director of Purchasing determines to be so
serious and compelling as to effect the responsibility of a city contractor,
including debarment by another governmental entity; and
      (6)   For violation of the ethical standards set forth in
Chapter 39 of the Code of Ordinances (Ethics in Public Contracting).
   (C)   Decision. The Director of Purchasing shall issue a written decision to
debar or suspend. The decision shall:
      (1)   State the reasons for the action taken; and
      (2)   Inform the debarred or suspended person involved of any rights to
judicial review as may be allowed under state law.
   (D)   Notice of decision. A copy of the decision under division (C) of this
section shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the debarred or
suspended person and any other party intervening.
   (E)   Finality of decision. A decision under division (C) of this section
shall be final and conclusive, unless fraudulent.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.117 AUTHORITY TO RESOLVE CONTRACT OR PURCHASE ORDER AND BREACH OF TERM
CONTROVERSIES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to controversies between the city
and the contractor, which arise under, or by virtue of the contract or purchase
order between them. This includes, without limitation, controversies based upon
breach of the terms of the contract or purchase order, mistake,
misrepresentation or other cause for modification or rescission.
   (B)   Authority. Subject to the provisions of
Chapter 36 of the code of ordinances of the city, the Director of Purchasing,
or his designee, is authorized, prior to commencement of an action in a court
or administrative proceeding concerning the controversy, to settle and resolve
a controversy described in division (A) of this section, following consultation
with the Corporation Counsel. Any such settlement or resolution shall be
subject to approval in accordance with any applicable state statutory
requirements and in accordance with
Chapter 36. This authority shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions
of the Charter, the code of ordinances, including, but not limited to
Chapter 38, any applicable regulations and the availability of unexpended
appropriated funds for the underlying transaction during the fiscal year.
   (C)   Decision period. If such a controversy is not resolved by mutual
agreement, the Director of Purchasing, or his designee, shall promptly issue a
decision in writing. The decision shall:
      (1)   State the reasons for the action taken; and
      (2)   Inform the contractor of its right to review as permitted by law or
agreement.
   (D)   Notice of decision period. A copy of the decision under division (C)
of this section shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the
contractor.
   (E)   Finality of decision. The decision under division (C) of this section
shall be final and conclusive unless fraudulent.
   (F)   Failure to render timely decision. If the Director of Purchasing, or
his designee, does not issue the written decision required under division (C)
of this section within 120 calendar days after written request for final
decision or within the longer period as may be agreed upon by the parties, then
the contractor may proceed as if an adverse decision has been received.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS
§ 38.130 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city or any of its agencies or
departments from participating in any joint purchasing program administered by
the State of Connecticut, the Council of Governments for the Central Naugatuck
Valley, the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, the Connecticut
Association of Boards of Education or any other public agency, including
another municipality or municipalities, or other nonprofit organization the
members of which are public bodies.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
VENDOR PAYMENT
§ 38.145 PAYMENT PROCESSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall honor all payment requests for commodities or services
received by, and for, the city provided there is on record either in hard copy
or in electronic form:
      (1)   A valid purchase order number;
      (2)   A bona fide vendor invoice which identifies the corresponding
commodities or services provided to the city; and
      (3)   A receiving report, or partial goods received report, signed or
issued electronically by the department head or designees of the agency
entitled to receive commodities or services on behalf of the city. The
signatures shall be made under penalty of law, as provided elsewhere in this
chapter, for falsely reporting such receipt of commodities or services.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the honoring of payment
requests for those items provided in §
38.070.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.146 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
38.146(B)(1) and (B)(2), a vendor claim (invoice), which satisfies the
provisions of §
38.145, may be paid on behalf of the city, under the delegated authority of the
Director of Finance, by an accounts payable unit of the Department of Finance
as the unit may be established.
   (B)   No payment shall be tendered:
      (1)   Under a purchase order it if it has been determined that the vendor
or any affiliated entity, either directly or through a lease, owes back taxes
to the city. No payment shall be made until a certificate is provided by the
Collector of Revenue or his designee indicating that the vendor or known
affiliated entities does not owe the city back taxes; and/or
      (2)   Under either a contract or purchase order, in the event it is
determined that the vendor or affiliated entity has not filed a current list of
taxable personal property as required by the general statutes; unless it has
been otherwise certified that the person is not required to file the list.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.147 PAYMENT BY CREDIT CARD.
   The Director of Finance is authorized to establish, by regulation or policy,
a system whereby the obligations of the city may be paid by credit card. The
regulations or policies shall require the designation of specific public
officials or employees authorized to use credit cards and the uses or purposes
for which the cards may be utilized. The regulations or policies shall also
authorize a means of determining which vendors may be paid in such manner as
well as standards to assure against abuse of the system.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 38.160 SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF LAW APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Generally. Unless displaced by the particular provisions of the laws
of the State of Connecticut, the principles of law and equity, including the
Uniform Commercial Code of the State of Connecticut and laws relative to the
capacity to contract, agency, fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion,
mistake or bankruptcy shall supplement the operations and understanding of the
provisions in this chapter.
   (B)   Knowledge of authority and limitations of the city's powers.
      (1)   Every person who conducts business with, contracts with or provides
commodities or services to the city is charged with notice of the extent of the
powers and authority, and the limitations thereon, of the public officials and
employees of the city, as set forth in the charter of the city, the code of
ordinances and any regulations or policies pertaining thereto.
      (2)   In particular, this applies to all persons who participate in the
procedures pertaining to the centralized procurement system as set forth in
this chapter and the ethics and conflict of interest provisions set forth in
Chapter 40 of the code of ordinances.
   (C)   Singular-plural and gender rules. In this chapter, unless the context
requires otherwise:
      (1)   Words in the singular number include the plural, and those in the
plural include the singular; and
      (2)   Words of a particular gender include any gender and the neuter, and
when the meaning so indicates, words of the neuter gender may refer to any
gender.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.161 REQUIREMENT OF GOOD FAITH.
   This chapter requires all parties involved in the negotiation, performance
or administration of city contracts and purchase orders to act in good faith.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.162 APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   General application. This chapter applies only to contracts and
purchase orders solicited or entered into after the effective date of this
chapter unless the parties agree to its application to a contract solicited or
entered into prior to the effective date.
   (B)   Application to city procurement.
      (1)   Subject to those provisions of the Charter of the city that may be
applicable to transfers of items of value or property in which the city may
have an interest, this chapter shall apply to the transfer of items of value or
property, in which the city may have an interest, and every expenditure of
public funds irrespective of their source, including federal and state
assistance monies, except as otherwise specified in order to comply with
specific state or federal requirements, by this city acting through a using
agency, as defined herein, under any contract.
         (a)   Intergovernmental relations exemption. Sections
38.100 to
38.102 shall not apply to either grants or contracts between the city and state
or other governments, which shall be governed hereby pertaining to
intergovernmental relations.
         (b)   Disposal of city supplies. This chapter shall apply to the
disposal of city supplies as set forth herein.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter or in the regulations or rules promulgated
hereunder shall prevent any agency from complying with the terms and conditions
of any grant, gift, bequest or cooperative agreement, to the extent the
compliance is otherwise lawful and not contrary to public policy.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.163 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or any application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or application of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.164 CONSTRUCTION AGAINST IMPLICIT REPEALER.
   Since this chapter is a general action, no part of it shall be deemed to be
impliedly repealed by subsequent amendments of the code if the construction of
the subsequent legislation can be reasonably avoided.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.165 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective in accordance with the requirements of
the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.166 DETERMINATIONS.
   Written determinations required by this chapter shall be retained in the
appropriate official contract file of the office of the Corporation Counsel.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
PUBLIC ACCESS
§ 38.180 PUBLIC ACCESS TO PROCUREMENT INFORMATION.
   Procurement information shall be a public record to the extent provided by
the laws of the State of Connecticut and shall be available to the public as
provided in such laws.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.181 AUTHORIZATION FOR THE USE OF ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSIONS.
   The use of electronic media, including acceptance of electronic signatures,
is authorized consistent with the applicable statutory, regulatory or other
guidance for the use of such media, as set forth in the state general statutes,
so long as the guidance provides for:
   (A)   Appropriate security to prevent unauthorized access to the bidding,
approval and award processes; and
   (B)   Accurate retrieval or conversion of electronic forms of the
information into a medium which permits inspection and copying.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
PROCUREMENT ORGANIZATION AND LEADERSHIP
§ 38.195 CHARTER AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF PURCHASES.
   There shall be a Department of Purchases as set forth in § 7C-4 of the
Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.196 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PURCHASES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Department of Purchases
shall have the authority and responsibility to administer the centralized
procurement system, as required by § 7C-4(a) of the Charter of the city, and to
promulgate regulations or issue policies or guidelines, consistent with the
Charter of the city and this chapter, governing the procurement, management,
control and disposal of any and all commodities, services and construction to
be procured by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
§ 38.210 CHARTER AUTHORITY FOR THE DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING.
   (A)   Head of the Department of Purchases. The head of the Department of
Purchases shall be the Director of Purchasing, who shall be the Purchasing
Agent of the city, as set forth in § 7C-4(b) of the Charter of the city.
   (B)   Scope of the purchasing authority. The Director of Purchasing shall
administer the processes pertaining to the purchase or contract for all
commodities and services needed by any and all departments, offices, boards,
commissions, institutions and other agencies which derive their support wholly
or in part from the funds of the city and which are using agencies.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.211 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Purchasing shall be appointed by the Mayor, as set
forth in §§ 4-2(b) and 7A-2(b) of the Charter of the city.
   (B)   The Director of Purchasing shall have relevant recent experience in
public procurement or in the large-scale procurement of commodities, services
or construction, and shall be a person with demonstrated executive and
organizational ability.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.212 TENURE, REMOVAL AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Term and removal. The Director of Purchasing shall be a full time
employee of the city and may be removed from office as set forth in § 7A-4 of
the Charter of the city.
   (B)   Compensation. The Director of Purchasing shall be compensated as
provided by law.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.213 AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING.
   (A)   Principal contracting officer of the city. The Director of Purchasing
shall serve as the procurement officer of the city.
   (B)   Power to adopt operational procedures. Consistent with the provisions
of this chapter, the Director of Purchasing may adopt operational procedures
governing the internal functions of the Department of Purchases. The
regulations and/or policies shall be a matter of public record.
   (C)   Duties. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the
Director of Purchasing shall, in accordance with this chapter and any
regulations and/or policies established:
      (1)   Procure or supervise the procurement of all commodities, services
and construction needed by the city taking into account the highest quality and
competitive cost;
      (2)   Sell, by public auction or competitive bid, if possible, exchange,
trade or otherwise dispose of surplus supplies belonging to the city,
including, but not limited to, supplies which have become obsolete, overage or
unsuitable for use;
      (3)   Work with the appropriate department heads to establish and
maintain programs for the inspection, testing and acceptance of commodities,
services and construction;
      (4)   Ensure compliance with this chapter by reviewing and monitoring
procurements conducted by any agency designee delegated authority under §
38.226;
      (5)   Establish and maintain a bidder's list, in cooperation with using
agencies and as needed, comprised of responsible prospective bidders or
offerors who have requested their names to be added to the list, from which
list the Department may provide notification of prospective purchases or sales
for the commodities or services in the request of the bidder or offeror;
however, the notification is a courtesy and shall not be construed as the legal
notice required by this chapter;
      (6)   Track, by electronic means, all contracts and purchase orders in a
uniform numerical system on a fiscal year basis (effective on July 1, 2004);
and
      (7)   Prescribe and maintain forms for the use of the Purchasing
Department and the using agencies as deemed necessary to the operation of the
Purchasing Department.
   (D)   Regulations or policies.
      (1)   The Director of Purchasing is authorized to propose regulations
and/or policies, consistent with the charter and this chapter, governing the
procurement, management, control and disposal of any and all commodities,
services, leases and construction procured by the city, unless exempted. Among
the subject matters authorized to be addressed in the regulations or policies
are the following:
         (a)   To prescribe the manner in which equipment, materials and
supplies shall be purchased, delivered, stored and distributed;
         (b)   To prescribe the manner of making requisitions and estimates,
the future periods which they are to cover, the form in which they shall be
submitted and the manner of their authentication;
         (c)   To prescribe the manner of inspecting all deliveries of
equipment, materials and supplies and of making chemical and physical tests of
samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries to determine whether or
not the specifications are being complied with;
         (d)   To provide for the transfer to or between such city agencies of
equipment, materials and supplies which are surplus with one such agency but
which may be needed by another or others, and for the disposal by sale of
equipment, materials and supplies which are obsolete or unusable;
         (e)   To indicate the types of objective criteria that may be used by
the Director of Purchasing in determining "lowest responsible qualified bidder"
for the purposes of this chapter;
         (f)   To define the term "minor irregularities" for the purposes of
this chapter; provided, the term shall not include:
            1.   Variations in the quality, unit price or date of delivery or
completion of equipment, materials, supplies or contractual services; or
            2.   Exceptions to programs required under the general statutes.
         (g)   To establish policies and procedures for use by agencies in
preparing specifications which will ensure that such specifications shall not
be unreasonably restrictive and shall encourage competition; and
         (h)   To provide for any other matters necessary to effect the
provisions of this chapter and any regulations or policies promulgated in
pursuance thereof.
      (2)   Consultation. In preparing and proposing all regulations, the
Director of Purchasing shall consult with department heads and appropriate
consultants regarding the specific applicable standards to ensure compliance
with applicable federal or state laws, regulations or requirements, to be
included in the regulations or policies.
   (E)   Discouragement of uniform bidding: government franchises. The Director
of Purchasing shall discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full
and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales.
      (1)   Purchase orders pertaining to government franchises or contracts
with other governmental units. Purchase orders issued to companies having a
government franchise for the purpose of providing public utility services, such
as telephone, gas, electric light and power, need not be founded on competitive
bids. Similarly, contracts entered into with other government units shall not
be subject to competitive bidding.
      (2)   Repairs of equipment.
         (a)   Repairs of equipment may be contracted for directly with the
company or authorized agency of the company manufacturing the equipment without
competitive bidding if the competition is unobtainable.
         (b)   The determination of whether competition is unobtainable shall
be made by the Director of Purchasing following review of the responses, if
any, to a request for information to companies that may be capable of
manufacturing or repairing the equipment in question.
   (F)   Proceeds from the sale or disposal of city property. Unless otherwise
provided by federal or state law, regulation or agreement or the Charter of the
city, the proceeds from the sale, lease or disposal of surplus properties shall
be returned to the general fund.
   (G)   Inventory control and classification plan.
      (1)   The Director of Purchasing shall develop a plan pertaining to the
exercise of general supervision and control over all inventories of supplies
belonging to the city. The plan shall include the:
         (a)   Classification of all commodities used by the agencies of the
city; and
         (b)   Preparation of written specifications regarding the commodities.
      (2)   In the preparation and revision of the standard specifications, the
Director of Purchasing shall seek the advice, assistance and cooperation of the
using agencies in order to determine their requirements and endeavor to
prescribe those standards which best meet the needs of the majority of said
agencies. Inventory control shall include:
         (a)   The management of supplies during their entire life cycle;
         (b)   The safe, lease or disposal of surplus supplies by public
auction, competitive sealed bidding, or other appropriate method determined by
Director of Purchasing; provided that, no employee of the owning or disposing
agency shall be entitled to purchase the supplies, unless it is determined by
the Director of Purchasing that there is no appearance of impropriety; and
         (c)   Transfer of excess supplies.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
ORGANIZATIONAL ISSUES PERTAINING TO PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND MANAGEMENT
§ 38.225 CENTRALIZATION OF PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, all rights, powers, duties
and authority relating to the procurement of commodities, services and
construction, and the management, control, warehousing, sale and disposal of
commodities, services and construction is vested in the Director of Purchasing
as required by the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.226 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY BY THE DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
38.225 above and subject to any regulations and/or policy and as further set
forth in this chapter, the Director of Purchasing may delegate authority to the
department head, employees or representatives of any using agency, including
consultants of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
ROLE OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
§ 38.227 AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR LEGAL SERVICES.
   No contract for the services of legal counsel may be awarded without the
approval of the corporation counsel, as set forth in the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.228 CONTRACTS TO BE APPROVED BY THE CORPORATION COUNSEL.
   As required by §§ 7B-1(d)(7) and 7C-4(a)(4) of the Charter of the city, each
contract shall be approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form and as to
compliance with all legal requirements of the charter and ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.229 DUTIES OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL.
   The Corporation Counsel or such officer as the Corporation Counsel shall
designate shall serve as legal counsel and provide necessary legal services to
the Director of Purchasing.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
ROLE OF USING AGENCIES OR DEPARTMENT HEADS
§ 38.230 ESTIMATE OF NEEDS.
   (A)   Generally. All using agencies of the city shall file with the Director
of Purchasing detailed estimates of their requirements in commodities and
contractual services in the manner, at such times, and for future periods as
the Director of Purchasing shall prescribe.
   (B)   Purchases for the Board of Education. The Director of Purchasing shall
enforce the provisions of § 7C-4 of the Charter of the city with regard to
purchases for the Board of Education. For purposes of enforcing the provisions,
"reasonable notice" shall require written notice to the Director of Purchasing
on or before March 1 for the school year commencing in the following fiscal
year. In all cases where the commodities to be purchased are peculiar to the
field of education, the school board's determination as to the specifications
of such commodities to be purchased shall be conclusive upon the Purchasing
Department without competitive bidding if the competition is unobtainable, and
therefore need not be advertised.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.231 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF USING AGENCIES, DEPARTMENT HEADS AND
OTHERS PERTAINING TO THE PROCUREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Affirmative obligations.
      (1)   The roles and responsibilities of using agencies, department heads
and employees or consultants delegated responsibilities in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 38 are set forth herein. In general, using agencies, their department
heads, designees of the Purchasing Director or other employees participating in
the operation of the procurement system are responsible for the management and
administration of contracts and purchase orders and for the supplies and
inventories in their agencies and will, thus, be held strictly accountable for
the operation and integrity of the procurement system.
      (2)   The roles and responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Filing of a requisition for a commodity or service pursuant to §
38.003;
         (b)   Obtaining a §
38.004(A) encumbrance as set forth in that section and a §
38.004(C) encumbrance for multi-year agreement or options to extend;
         (c)   Supplying any special notice provisions required by federal or
state grants, loans or reimbursement agreements, as set forth in §§
38.021(C) and
38.022(C);
         (d)   Preparing specifications for attachment to the invitation for
bid, request for proposal or other solicitation, as set forth in §
38.005;
         (e)   Participating in the evaluation of bids and proposal responses,
as set forth in §§
38.021(E) and
38.022(G);
         (f)   Submitting recurring commodities or services, as required by §
38.024;
         (g)   Participating, as designee of the Director of Purchasing, in the
solicitation of price alternatives in small purchase transactions, as set forth
in §
38.025(A);
         (h)   Participating as the Director of Health, Fire Chief or
Superintendent of Police in rendering a decision, in concert with the Mayor,
regarding a public emergency, as set forth in §
38.027(A);
         (i)   Participating in the selection and negotiation of contract terms
with architectural or engineering firms, as set forth in §
38.023;
         (j)   Participating in the determination of nonresponsibility of
bidders or offerors, as set forth in §
38.046;
         (k)   Complying with the ethics and conflict of interest provisions of
Chapter 39, as set forth in §
38.085(B);
         (l)   Cooperating in proceedings pertaining to the resolution of
protested solicitations and awards as well as contract controversies and
debarment proceedings, as set forth in §§
38.115,
38.116 and
38.117;
         (m)   Filing an estimate of needs as set forth in §
38.230;
         (n)   Supplying a copy of all insurance and bond requirements for the
procurement, as set forth in §
38.072(B)(3) or 38.071(B);
         (o)   Preparing a recitation of the amount of funds (annual and multi-
year) to be expended under a contract or purchase order, as set forth in§
38.004; and
         (p)   Identification of, personnel responsible for the administration
of the contract or purchase order, as set forth in §§
38.072(B)(2) or 38.071(B).
   (B)   Prohibited activities. Using agencies, departments heads and employees
shall not, among other things:
      (1)   Incur any liability or expense in excess of the amount of:
         (a)   The general or capital appropriations of the city; or
         (b)   Any federal or state grant, loan or reimbursement program, as
set forth in §
38.004(D).
      (2)   Knowingly authorize or make payments in violation of
Chapter 38, as set forth in §
38.004(E);
      (3)   Artificially divide procurement requirements in order to qualify as
a small purchases, as set forth in §
38.025(D), or to avoid Board of Aldermen approval required in §
38.072;
      (4)   Circumvent the procurement methods set forth in this chapter in
order to establish the conditions for a waiver of the bid requirements, as set
forth in §
38.028; or
      (5)   Amend a contract or purchase order unless so authorized by the
Board of Aldermen, as set forth in §
38.073(A).
   (C)   Cause for removal or termination of employment. If any public official
or employee of the city shall knowingly incur any obligation or shall authorize
or make any expenditure in violation of this provision, such action may be
cause for removal from office or termination of employment.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
CITY PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
§ 38.245 REGULATIONS.
   Regulations shall be promulgated in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the administrative procedures ordinance upon its enactment or, if
prior thereto, in accordance with any procedures which may, in the opinion of
the Corporation Counsel, then be applicable.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.246 PROHIBITION AGAINST THE DELEGATION OF THE POWER TO PROMULGATE
REGULATIONS AND ESTABLISH POLICY.
   The Director of Purchasing shall not delegate his power to promulgate
regulations and policies.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
§ 38.247 REGULATIONS AND POLICIES SHALL NOT CHANGE EXISTING CONTRACT RIGHTS.
   No regulation or policy shall change any commitment, right or obligation of
the city or of a contractor under a contract or purchase order in existence on
the effective date of the regulation or policy.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005)
CHAPTER 39: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Title
   
39.002   Statement of policy
   
39.003   Application
   
39.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.020   Generally
   
39.021   Official conduct
   
39.022   Restrictions on employees
   
39.023   Use of confidential information
   
39.024   Paid consultants of the city
Prohibited Practices
   
39.040   Gifts and favors
   
39.041   Exceptions
   
39.042   Gratuities and kickbacks
   
39.043   Use of city resources
   
39.044   Relating to business with the city
   
39.045   Representing private interests
   
39.046   Appearance and intervention on behalf of others
   
39.047   Prohibition against contingent fees; exception for retention of
counsel in accordance with the rules of professional responsibility of the
State Bar Association
   
39.048   Criminal conduct; state sanctions
   
39.049   Public official, employee or member of a board or commission conflict
of interest in city procurements
   
39.050   Municipal employment of elected officials
Disclosure Requirements
   
39.060   Disclosure of financial interest
   
39.061   Contents of statements of financial interest disclosure
   
39.062   Disclosure requirements pertaining to city procurements
   
39.063   Amendments
   
39.064   Failure to file
   
39.065   Extensions
   
39.066   Financial disclosure statement; notice
Administrative Practices and Procedures
   
39.080   Duty to disclose
   
39.081   Complaint procedure
   
39.082   Time limits
   
39.083   Confidentiality of complaints
   
39.084   Investigations
   
39.085   Appeal
Remedies
   
39.100   Civil and administrative remedies against public officials or
employees who breach ethical standards
   
39.101   Civil and administrative remedies against non-employees who breach
ethical standards
   
39.102   Civil and administrative remedies against elected officials who breach
ethical standards
   
39.103   Recovery of value transferred or received in breach of ethical
standards
Application
   
39.115   Savings clause
   
39.116   Distribution of code
   
39.117   Amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the "Ethics and Conflict of
Interest Code for the City of Waterbury".
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.002 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Public employment is a public trust. It is the policy of the city to
promote balancing the objectives of protecting governmental integrity and
facilitating the recruitment and retention of personnel needed by the city.
This policy is implemented by prescribing essential standards of ethical
conduct without creating unnecessary obstacles to entering public service.
   (B)   Furthermore, employees must discharge their duties impartially so as
to assure fair competitive access to governmental procurement by responsible
contractors. Moreover, they should conduct themselves in such a manner as to
foster public confidence in the integrity of the city's procurement
organization.
   (C)   Finally, in order to achieve the purposes of this chapter, it is
essential that those doing business with the city also observe the ethical
standards prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.003 APPLICATION.
   These sections shall be applied to and be binding on every public official
and employee of the city, as defined in this chapter and persons conducting
business with the city.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words of
the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
   BLIND TRUST. An independently managed trust in which the employee-
beneficiary has no management rights and in which the employee-beneficiary is
not given notice of alterations in, or other dispositions of, the property
subject to the trust.
   BOARD. The Board of Ethics as established in § 6B-3 of the Charter of the
city.
   BUSINESS. Any entity through which business for profit or not for profit is
conducted including a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm
enterprise, franchise, association, organization or self-employed individual.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Any information which is available to a public
official, employee or member of a board or commission only because of their
status as such public official, employee or member of a board or commission and
is not a matter of public knowledge or available to the public on request, in
accordance with the provisions of the general statutes.
   CONSPICUOUSLY. Written in the special or distinctive format, print or manner
that a reasonable person against whom it is to operate ought to have noticed
it.
   CONTRACT. A written agreement between two or more competent persons to
perform or not to perform a specific act or acts pertaining to services and
professional services or as otherwise set forth herein and
Chapter 38 of this code.
   DEPARTMENT or AGENCY. An agency, authority, board, bureau, commission,
department, government corporation, legislative body or official of the city.
   DIRECT OR INDIRECT PARTICIPATION. Involvement through decision, approval,
disapproval, recommendation, preparation of any part of the procurement of
commodities, services or leases, as set forth in
Chapter 38, influencing the content of any specification or procurement
standard, rendering of advice, investigation, auditing or in any other advisory
capacity.
   DE MINIMUS GIFT. Something that is of minimum value that is bestowed
voluntarily and without compensation. Minimum value shall include any gift
worth up to $100.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. Any elected officer or official or any official appointed
to complete the term of an elected official.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by the city, whether as a classified or
unclassified, permanent or temporary, full-time or part-time employee, or
employed by contract on a continuing basis and all employees of the Board of
Education. For purposes of this chapter, the term EMPLOYEE may include public
officials and department heads.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST.
      (1)   Ownership of any interest or involvement in any business with which
the public official, employee or member of a board or commission is associated
including, any sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company,
firm, corporation, trust or other entity through which business for profit or
not for profit is conducted in which the public official, employee or member of
a board or commission or a member of his immediate family is a director,
officer, owner, limited or general partner, beneficiary of a trust or holder of
stock constituting 5% or more of the total outstanding stock of any class or a
5% share of the business.
         (a)   The public official, employee or member of a board or commission
or member of his immediate family, shall not be deemed to be associated with a
not-for-profit entity solely by virtue of the fact that the public official,
employee or member of a board or commission or member of his immediate family
is an unpaid director or officer of the not-for-profit entity.
         (b)   Income from, and financial investments in, policies of
insurance, and deposits in accounts from commercial or savings banks, savings
and loan associations, or credit unions shall not be considered to be a
financial interest within the meaning of this chapter; or
      (2)   Ownership of the interest in any property or any business as may be
specified by the Board of Ethics; or
      (3)   Holding a position in a business such as an officer, director,
trustee, partner, employee, or the like, or holding any position of management.
"Officer" refers only to the president, executive or senior vice president or
treasurer of the business.
   GRATUITY. A payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money, services
or anything of more than nominal or de minimus value, present or promised,
unless consideration of substantially equal or greater value is received.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, children, parents, brothers and sisters, and
such other relatives as may be designated by the Board of Ethics.
   MEMBER OF A BOARD OR COMMISSION. Any individual:
      (1)   Appointed by a public official as an advisor or consultant or
member of a board, commission, committee or council established to advise,
recommend or consult with a public official or the Board of Aldermen or a
committee thereof; and
      (2)   Who receives no public funds other than per diem payments or
reimbursement for his actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance
of his official duties.
   OFFICIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Direct administrative or operating authority,
whether intermediate or final, either exercisable alone or with others, either
personally or through subordinates, to approve, disapprove or otherwise direct
action by the city.
   PERSON. An individual, sole proprietorship, trust, corporation, limited
liability company, union, association, firm, partnership, committee, club or
other organization or group of persons.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL or OFFICIAL. Any elected officer or official.
   PURCHASE ORDER. A document that formalizes certain purchase transactions
with the city as fully set forth in
Chapter 38 of this code.
   REQUISITION. The document which commences the procurement process as set
forth in
Chapter 38 of this code.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.020 GENERALLY.
   Public officials, employees and members of any board or commission have a
special responsibility by virtue of the trust invested in them, by the city's
residents to discharge their duties conscientiously, impartially, and to the
best of their ability, placing the good of the city above any person or
partisan considerations.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.021 OFFICIAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Public officials, employees and members of any board or commission
shall be guided in the discharge of their duties by the considerations set
forth in this section. In this respect, they shall:
      (1)   Have an obligation to act morally and honestly in discharging all
assigned responsibilities;
      (2)   Conduct themselves with propriety, discharge their duties
impartially and fairly, and make continuing efforts toward attaining and
maintaining high standards of performance; and
      (3)   Not use, or attempt to use, either directly or indirectly, their
city positions to secure any preferential right, benefit, advantage or
privilege for themselves or for others.
   (B)   Should any public official, employee or member of a board or
commission be requested or ordered to perform an act that conflicts with this
chapter or the laws of the state, he should refuse to comply with such a
request or order. This principle is not to be construed as encouraging
arbitrary or capricious nonconformity with job assignments, but to ensure that
all public officials and employees recognize that the responsibility for
ethical conduct ultimately rests with each individual.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.022 RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Contemporaneous employment prohibited.
      (1)   Except as may be permitted by regulations or rulings of the Board
of Ethics, it shall be a violation of this chapter for any public official,
employee or member of a board or commission who is participating directly or
indirectly in the procurement process, as set forth in
Chapter 38 of this code (including those participating in exempt transactions),
to become or be the employee of any person contracting with the governmental
body by whom the employee is employed.
      (2)   Notice of this provision shall be provided in the solicitation
documents, purchase orders or contracts prepared in accordance with
Chapter 38.
   (B)   Restrictions on former public officials or employees in matters
connected with their former duties.
      (1)   Permanent disqualification of former public officials or employees
personally involved in a particular matter. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any former public official, employee or member of a board or
commission knowingly to act as a principal, or as an agent for anyone other
than the city, in connection with any of the following, in which the public
official, employee or member of a board or commission participated personally
and substantially through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation,
rendering of advice, investigation or otherwise while a public official,
employee or member of a board or commission, where the city is a party or has a
direct and substantial interest:
         (a)   Judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling
or other determination;
         (b)   Contract;
         (c)   Claim; or
         (d)   Charge or controversy.
      (2)   One year representation restriction regarding matters for which
former public officials, employees or members of a board or commission were
officially responsible. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any former
public official, employee or member of a board or commission, within one year
after cessation of that person's responsibilities on behalf of the city, to
knowingly to act as a principal, or as an agent for anyone other than the city,
in connection with any of the following, in matters which were within that
person's official responsibility, where the city is a party or has a direct or
substantial interest:
         (a)   Judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling
or other determination;
         (b)   Contract;
         (c)   Claim; or
         (d)   Charge or controversy.
   (C)   Disqualification of business when a public official, employee or
member of a board or commission has a financial interest. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for a business in which a public official, employee
or member of a board or commission has a financial interest to knowingly to act
as a principal, or as an agent for anyone other than the city, in connection
with any of the following in which that person either participates personally
and substantially through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, the
rendering of advice, investigation, or otherwise, or which is the subject of
that person's official responsibility, where the city is a party or has a
direct and substantial interest:
      (1)   Judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling or
other determination;
      (2)   Contract;
      (3)   Claim; or
      (4)   Charge or controversy.
   (D)   Selling to the city after termination of employment is prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any former public
official or employee to engage in selling or attempting to sell supplies,
services or construction to the city for one year following the date employment
ceased if he served in the following capacities: department head; member of the
Department of Purchasing; position responsible for purchasing by a using
agency; or, any supervisory or management position.
      (2)   The term SELL, as used herein, means signing a bid, proposal or
contract; negotiating a contract; contacting any employee for the purpose of
obtaining, negotiating or discussing changes in specifications, price, cost
allowances or other terms of a contract; settling disputes concerning
performance of a contract; or any other liaison activity with a view toward the
ultimate consummation of a sale although the actual contract therefor is
subsequently negotiated by another person; provided, however, that, this
section is not intended to preclude a former public official or employee from
accepting employment with private industry solely because the former public
official or employee's employer is a contractor with the city, nor shall a
former public official or employee be precluded from serving as a consultant to
the city.
   (E)   Nepotism in municipal employment.
      (1)   The City of Waterbury and its employees shall adhere to the highest
ethical standards and shall avoid unmerited favoritism toward relatives. This
policy shall not be construed to unnecessarily exclude qualified applicants
from municipal employment.
      (2)   The city shall recruit and select employees based upon their
qualifications and merit, and the city's requirements. City officials,
department heads and management employees shall not participate in, or
influence employment decisions directly affecting their relatives, but may
participate in decisions affecting their relatives as members of broad groups
or classes of employees. Relatives of city officials, department heads or
management employees shall be hired, transferred or promoted only after
disclosure to the Human Resource Director, and approval by the Civil Service
Commission pursuant to division (E)(5)(b) below.
      (3)   Unless disclosed to the Human Resources Director, and approved by
the Civil Service Commission pursuant to division (E)(5) below, no person will
be hired, promoted or transferred into a department in which a relative is
employed if:
         (a)   The relative occupies a position in the supervisory hierarchy
under which the person would work, and
         (b)   The relative could influence employment and personnel decisions
affecting the person.
      (4)   For purposes of this division (E), the term RELATIVE means spouse,
parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew or corresponding in-law or "step" relation.
      (5)   Employees shall disclose situations that conflict with the
conditions stated in division (E)(3) above to the Human Resources Director
within 15 calendar days of occurrence.
         (a)   The following events must be reported under this division:
            1.   If employees become relatives by marriage or adoption during
the course of their employment, then the marriage or adoption is a reportable
event.
            2.   The acceptance of an offer of employment, including voluntary
or involuntary transfer or promotion, that conflicts with the conditions stated
in division (E)(3) above is a reportable event.
         (b)   Within 15 days after receipt of disclosure pursuant to this
division (E)(5), the Human Resources Director shall notify the appointing
authority of the affected employees and direct the appointing authority to
draft an employment plan addressing the conflict. The draft employment plan
shall be submitted to the Civil Service Commission by the appointing authority
within 30 days of the appointing authority's notification by the Human
Resources Director. Within 30 days after submission thereto, the Civil Service
Commission shall review the draft employment plan and may recommend amendments
as it deems appropriate. The Civil Service Commission can either approve the
plan or amended plan, or deny the plan or amended plan. An approved employment
plan shall be immediately implemented. If the Civil Service Commission denies
the plan or the amended plan, the Civil Service Commission shall promulgate an
employment plan addressing the conflict, which shall be immediately
implemented. If the Civil Service Commission has taken no action more than 30
days after it was submitted, the draft employment plan submitted by the
appointing authority is approved by default.
         (c)   Notwithstanding a conflict with divisions (E)(2) or (3) above, a
person may be conditionally hired, promoted or transferred into a department in
which a relative is employed prior to approval of the employment plan by the
Civil Service Commission, provided a proper disclosure is made to the Director
of Human Resources, and conditioned upon compliance with the plan subsequently
approved by the Civil Service Commission.
         (d)   The failure of an employee to report a reportable event as
required by this division is grounds for disciplinary action, including
involuntary transfer, reassignment, or termination of employment.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003; Ord. passed 5-6-2013)
§ 39.023 USE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any public official, employee or
member of a board or commission, former public official, employee or member of
a board or commission knowingly to use confidential information for actual or
anticipated personal gain, or for the actual or anticipated personal gain of
any other person.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.024 PAID CONSULTANTS OF THE CITY.
   (A)   No paid consultant of the city shall represent a private interest in
any action or proceeding against the direct interest of the city, which is in
conflict with the performance of his duties as a consultant.
   (B)   No paid consultant may represent anyone other than the city concerning
any matter in which he participated personally and substantially as a
consultant to the city.
   (C)   No paid consultant shall disclose confidential information learned
while performing his duties for the municipality, nor shall he use the
information for the financial interests of himself or others.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
PROHIBITED PRACTICES
§ 39.040 GIFTS AND FAVORS.
   (A)   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission shall
accept, directly or indirectly, any favor, service or gift, including gifts of
de minimus value, from any person who, to his knowledge, has or may have direct
or indirect business dealings with the city.
   (B)   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission shall,
by reason of his status, accept or endeavor to obtain, directly or indirectly,
preferential treatment from any private citizen, business enterprise, or other
public official, employee or member of a board or commission.
   (C)   (1)   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission
shall, in the discharge of his duties, grant any preferential treatment to any
person or interest beyond that which is properly available to all other persons
or interests.
      (2)   If it is impossible or inappropriate to refuse the gift, it shall
be reported to the Board of Ethics and then turned over to an appropriate
public or charitable institution.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.041 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
39.040 does not prohibit:
   (A)   Gifts or social courtesies related to a family relationship or
friendship between the public official, employee or member of a board or
commission and the donor, which are not designed to influence the proper
judgment or action of the public official, employee or member of a board or
commission in a matter within his authority;
   (B)   Attendance at or participation in public, governmental-sponsored or
informational events and conferences which are incident to the service of the
public official, employee or member of a board or commission , where
refreshments may be served and small souvenirs of the event, of de minimus
value, may be distributed to all attendees, which are not designed to influence
the proper judgment or action of the public official, employee or member of a
board or commission in a matter within his authority. Not included in this
exception are events sponsored and paid for by vendors or prospective vendors,
unless related specifically to training conferences which are incident to
contractual relationships between the city and the contractor;
   (C)   Political contributions received in compliance with law;
   (D)   Loans obtained according to commercial practice at the prevailing rate
of interest;
   (E)   Customary performance, merit awards or honorariums, consistent with
municipal practice;
   (F)   Services awarded by people volunteering their time; and
   (G)   Awards, gifts or other things of value given to employees as part of
an official employee recognition/incentive program.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.042 GRATUITIES AND KICKBACKS.
   (A)   Gratuities. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
offer, give, or agree to give any current or former public official, employee
or member of a board or commission, or for such current or former public
official, employee or member of a board or commission to solicit, demand,
accept, or agree to accept from another person, a gratuity or an offer of
employment in connection with any of the following pertaining to any program
requirement or a contract or purchase order, or to any solicitation or proposal
therefore:
      (1)   Decision;
      (2)   Approval;
      (3)   Disapproval;
      (4)   Recommendation;
      (5)   Preparation of any part of a program requirement or a requisition;
      (6)   Influencing the content of any specification or procurement
standard; or
      (7)   Rendering of advice, investigation, auditing or in any other
advisory capacity in any proceeding or application, request for ruling,
determination, claim or controversy or other particular matter.
   (B)   Kickbacks. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any payment,
gratuity or offer of employment to be made, as an inducement for the award of a
subcontract or order, by or on behalf of a subcontractor, the prime contractor
or higher tier subcontractor or any person associated therewith, under a
contract or purchase order to the city.
   (C)   Contract and purchase order clause. The prohibition against gratuities
and kickbacks prescribed in this section, and the remedies set forth herein,
shall be conspicuously set forth in every contract or purchase order, as these
terms are defined in
Chapter 38, and any solicitation therefor.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.043 USE OF CITY RESOURCES.
   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission shall
request or permit himself or others the use of city-owned or leased vehicles,
equipment, materials or property for personal use, business or profit, except
when the services are available to the public generally or permitted by
agreement of the city and are provided in conformance with established city
policies for the use of the public official, employee or member of a board or
commission in the conduct of city business.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.044 RELATING TO BUSINESS WITH THE CITY.
   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission having a
financial interest, direct or indirect, in any transaction with the city or in
any action to be taken by the city shall use his office to exert his influence
or vote on the transaction or action.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.045 REPRESENTING PRIVATE INTERESTS.
   (A)   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission shall
appear on behalf of a private interest other than his own before any elective
or appointive board or commission of the city of which he is a member.
   (B)   No former public official, employee or member of a board or commission
shall appear on behalf of a private interest other than his own on any matter
before the governmental body with which he has been associated until one year
after he has left that body.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall abridge any statutory collective
bargaining rights or other rights assured to an employee by law.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.046 APPEARANCE AND INTERVENTION ON BEHALF OF OTHERS.
   (A)   (1)   No public official, employee or member of a board or commission
shall appear before any department or agency of the city on behalf of private
persons in any matter which will be in conflict with his duties as such public
official or employee or member of a board or commission.
      (2)   Any such public official may appear before city agencies on behalf
of his constituents in the course of his duties as a representative of the
electorate or the performance of civic obligations; provided that, no retainer,
compensation or gift shall be accepted in connection with the representation.
   (B)   Former public officials or employees shall be prohibited from
representing for compensation any persons in their business with the city for
two years after the end of their service if the public official, employee or
member of a board or commission participated personally and substantially in
the subject matter of the transaction during his term of office or employment;
provided that, if the public official, employee or member of a board or
commission exercised contract management authority with respect to a contract
or purchase order, this prohibition shall be permanent as to that contract or
purchase order.
   (C)   If members of the Board of Aldermen, in the course of their business
or profession, currently represent persons with matters before the Board of
Aldermen for determinations by that body, then in such cases the Alderman shall
disclose the representation and shall promptly abstain from the consideration,
determination and aldermanic action. If a matter connected with the
representation requires solely administrative action by a department or agency
of the city, then no direct personal intervention or representation shall be
undertaken by the Alderman with the department or agency.
   (D)   In the event a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals has a conflict of
interest involving a zoning matter or amendment, the commissioner in conflict
should be disqualified from acting on the amendment or change, should abstain
from voting thereon, should in no fashion attempt to influence the vote of
other members of the board and should place on the public record at the public
hearing, the reasons for the disqualification and conflict of interest,
including relationships with any parties that may be interested in the zone
change or amendment. In the event of such disqualifications, an alternate shall
serve in accordance with the ordinance relating to the appointment of
alternates to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.047 PROHIBITION AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES; EXCEPTION FOR RETENTION OF
COUNSEL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RULES OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
STATE BAR ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   Contingent fees. It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person
to be retained, or to retain a person, to solicit or secure a contract with the
city upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage
or contingent fee. This provision shall not apply to full-time employees who,
as a condition of their employment may be entitled to bonuses or other fees in
accordance with their employment relationship. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the corporation counsel may retain counsel for purposes of representing the
interests of the city on the basis of contingency fees in accordance with the
Rules of Professional Responsibility of the Connecticut Bar Association.
Association and the city may retain state marshals or constables acting
pursuant to the general statutes.
   (B)   Representation of contractor. Every person, before being awarded a
city contract, shall represent, in writing, that the person has not retained
anyone in violation of division (A) above. Failure to do so constitutes a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Contract clause. The representation prescribed in division (B) above
shall be conspicuously set forth in every contract and solicitation therefor.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.048 CRIMINAL CONDUCT; STATE SANCTIONS.
   To the extent that violations of the provisions of this chapter constitute
violations of the criminal laws of the state, the Board of Ethics shall refer
the matter to the State's Attorney for the Judicial District of Waterbury. Any
criminal sanctions shall be in addition to the civil remedies set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.049 PUBLIC OFFICIAL, EMPLOYEE OR MEMBER OF A BOARD OR COMMISSION CONFLICT
OF INTEREST IN CITY PROCUREMENTS.
   (A)   Conflict of interest. It shall be a violation of the provisions of the
charter of the city and this chapter for any public official, employee or
member of a board or commission to participate directly or indirectly in the
city procurement, set forth in
Chapter 38 of the code, when the public official, employee or member of a board
or commission knows that:
      (1)   The public official, employee or member of a board or commission or
any member of the public official's, employee's or member of a board or
commission's immediate family has a financial interest pertaining to the
procurement;
      (2)   A business in which the public official, employee or member of a
board or commission, or any member of the public official's, employee's or
member of a board or commission's immediate family, has a financial interest
pertaining to the procurement; or
      (3)   Any other person or business with whom the public official,
employee or member of a board or commission or any member of the public
official's, employee's or member of a board or commission's immediate family is
negotiating or has an arrangement concerning prospective employment is involved
in the procurement.
   (B)   Financial interest in a blind trust. Where a public official, employee
or member of a board or commission or any member of the public official's,
employee's or member of a board or commission's immediate family holds a
financial interest in a blind trust, the public official, employee or member of
a board or commission shall not be deemed to have a conflict of interest with
regard to matters pertaining to that financial interest, provided that
disclosure of the existence of the blind trust has been made to the Board of
Ethics.
   (C)   Discovery of actual or potential conflict of interest,
disqualification and waiver. Upon discovery of an actual or potential conflict
of interest, a public official, employee or member of a board or commission
shall promptly file a written statement of disqualification and shall withdraw
from further participation in the transaction involved. The public official,
employee or member of a board or commission may, at the same time, apply to the
Board of Ethics for an advisory opinion as to what further participation, if
any, he may have in the transaction.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.050 MUNICIPAL EMPLOYMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   No member of the City of Waterbury Board of Aldermen, City of Waterbury
Board of Education, State of Connecticut elected assemblies, federal elected
assemblies, or any other elected office of the City of Waterbury, State of
Connecticut, or federal government shall seek or obtain employment with the
City of Waterbury or its agencies during the term of said elected office and
for one year thereafter.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2014)
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
§ 39.060 DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   Who must file. The City’s Finance Director and Human Resources
Director shall certify to the City Clerk a list, current as of the previous
July 1, of the names and mailing addresses of the persons who are required to
file a financial disclosure statement in the current year.
      (1)   Persons or entities doing business with the city. For purposes of
this chapter, a list prepared by the Finance Director of each person doing
business with the city in an amount in excess of $1,000 for the preceding year
shall be determinative for purposes of reporting under this section.
      (2)   Public officials, employees and members of boards and commissions.
Public officials or employees holding the following positions as of July 1 of
any year are required to file a financial disclosure statement:
         (a)   Any person holding an elective city office;
         (b)   Members of the Board of Ethics, Finance and Audit Review
Commission and Civil Service Commission;
         (c)   All department heads;
         (d)   All full-time appointed unclassified management employees;
         (e)   Those employees whose responsibilities (as determined, in the
sole discretion of the Board of Ethics) involve dispositive and discretionary
judgments regarding the sale or lease of real estate, receipt of monies,
purchasing of commodities (as defined in
Chapter 38 of this code of ordinances), issuing of permits or licenses,
assessment of property, inspection of property, settlement of claims (as set
forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances), or, the preparation or awarding of
contracts or retention of outside services; and
         (f)   Any other employees or members of boards or commissions who may
be designated by the Board of Ethics, by regulation.
      (3)   Filing. Any public official, employee or member of a board or
commission whose position is designated as requiring the filing of a financial
disclosure statement, but who did not hold the position at the time the filing
was required for the current year, shall file the required statement within 21
days following the date he first held the position. The statement shall be
current as of the date the public official, employee or member of a board or
commission first entered the new position, except that a public official,
employee or member of a board or commission who has previously filed a current
statement during that year is not required to file a new one merely by virtue
of entering a new position.
   (B)   Form. Every financial disclosure statement, which is required to be
filed hereunder, shall be in the form prescribed by the Board. Information
which is required shall be provided on the basis of the best knowledge,
information and belief of the reporting public servant, and shall be
typewritten or printed. The statement shall be verified, dated and signed by
the reporting public official, employee or member of a board or commission
personally.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   A financial disclosure statement is considered filed when the City
Clerk receives it.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall, in writing, notify all persons required to
file financial disclosure statements under this chapter. Notice shall be
delivered by first class mail to the last known address appearing in city
records.
      (3)   All financial disclosure statements shall be available for
examination and duplication by the public in the office of the City Clerk
during the regular business hours of the city, except as otherwise provided by
law. The person requesting the duplication shall pay costs of duplicating the
financial disclosure statement.
   (D)   When filed. Those persons set forth herein shall file, under oath, a
financial disclosure statement for the preceding calendar year with the City
Clerk on or before the July 1 next in any year in which they hold such a
position. Any such individual who leaves his office or position shall file a
financial disclosure statement covering that portion of the year during which
the individual held his office or position. The City Clerk shall notify the
individuals of the requirements of this division within 30 days after their
departure from the office or position. The individuals shall file the statement
within 60 days after receipt of the notification.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.061 CONTENTS OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTEREST DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Persons or entities conducting business with the city. The financial
disclosure statement shall include a list of all outstanding purchase orders or
contracts with the city and the identity of all public officials, employees or
members of boards and commissions who have a financial interest in the person
conducting business with the city.
   (B)   Public officials, employees and members of boards and commissions. The
financial disclosure statement shall contain the following information for the
preceding calendar year in regard to the individual required to file the
statement and the individual's spouse and dependent children residing in the
individual's household, with the exception of disclosures required hereunder:
      (1)   The names of all businesses with which there is a financial
interest, whether incorporated or not;
      (2)   The category or type of all sources of business income, without
specifying amounts of income;
      (3)   The existence of any known blind trust and the names of the
trustees;
      (4)   All real property located within the city or within a municipality
in which the city can exercise regulatory control or authority, whether owned
by the individual or held in the name of a corporation, partnership or trust
for the benefit of the individual; and
      (5)   Any leases or contracts with the city held or entered into by the
individual or a business with which he was associated.
   (C)   Public information. The financial disclosure statement filed pursuant
to this section shall be a matter of public information.
   (D)   Waiver. Any individual who is unable to provide information required
under the provisions of this section by reason of impossibility may petition
the Board of Ethics for a waiver of the requirements.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.062 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO CITY PROCUREMENTS.
   (A)   Disclosure of benefit received from a contract or purchase order. Any
public official, employee or member of a board or commission who has, or
obtains any benefit from, any city contract or purchase order with a business
in which he has a financial interest shall report the benefit to the Board of
Ethics; provided, however, this section shall not apply to a contract or
purchase order with a business where the financial interest in the business has
been placed in a disclosed blind trust.
   (B)   Failure to disclose benefit received. Any public official, employee or
member of a board or commission who knows or should have known of the benefit,
and fails to report the benefit to the Board of Ethics shall be in violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Notice. Notice of this requirement shall be provided in accordance
with regulations promulgated by the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.063 AMENDMENTS.
   Every person who is required to file a disclosure statement shall amend the
statement from time to time as necessary to ensure the continued accuracy
thereof. Each such amendment shall be made within 15 days following any
occurrence, which causes the statement to be inaccurate.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.064 FAILURE TO FILE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall notify any public official, employee or member of
a board or commission who fails to file a financial disclosure statement by the
prescribed filing date of each year, by certified mail, of the failure to file
by the specified date. The public official, employee or member of a board or
commission shall file the required statement within 20 working days after
having received the notice, along with a late filing fee as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Failure to file the required statement within 20 working
days after having received the notice shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, unless an extension has been obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Any public official, employee or member of a board or commission
who becomes newly subject to the requirement to file a financial disclosure
statement within 30 days prior to the prescribed filing date of any year shall
be notified at that time, or as soon as practicable thereafter, by the
appointing authority of the obligation to file and shall be permitted to file
the required statement without a penalty within 20 working days after having
received the notice.
      (2)   If the public official, employee or member of a board or commission
fails to file the required statement within 20 working days after having
received the notice, the City Clerk shall notify the party by certified mail of
the failure to file by the specified date. The public official, employee or
member of a board or commission shall file the financial disclosure statement
within ten working days after having received the certified notice, along with
a late filing fee as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
      (3)   Failure to file the financial disclosure statement within ten
working days after having received the certified notice shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, unless an extension has been obtained in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall notify any person conducting business with the
city who fails to file a financial disclosure statement by the prescribed
filing date of each year, by certified mail, of the failure to file by the
specified date. The person shall file the required statement within 20 working
days after having received the notice, along with a late filing fee as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Failure to file the required statement within 20 working
days after having received the notice shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, unless an extension has been obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 39.065 EXTENSIONS.
   A public official, employee or member of a board or commission who is
required to file a financial disclosure statement may have one 30-day filing
extension by filing a notice with the City Clerk by the date on which the
financial disclosure statement is due. Failure to file by the extended deadline
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.066 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   To appointing authority. The City Clerk, upon notifying the Director
of Finance of the failure of a public official, employee or member of a board
or commission to file a statement, shall also notify the appropriate appointing
authority, if any.
   (B)   To Director of Purchasing. The City Clerk, upon notifying the Director
of Finance of the failure of a person or entity conducting business with the
city to file a statement, shall also notify the Director of Purchasing.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
§ 39.080 DUTY TO DISCLOSE.
   All public officials, employees and members of boards or commissions who
have knowledge of or believe there to be violations of any provisions in this
chapter are duty-bound to report those violations to the Board of Ethics. The
reports shall be in good faith and the city in turn guarantees that no
reprisals against a reporter of the violations will be taken (provided that,
the charges are not later proven to have been both malicious and false). All
persons against whom the charges have been made will have full access to all
the protections of due process as spelled out by the Board of Ethics. It shall
be a violation of this chapter for a person to falsely and maliciously charge,
as found in the sole discretion of the Board of Ethics, another with violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.081 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written complaint from any person on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, signed under penalty of false statement, the
Board shall notify the complainant, by registered or certified mail, of the
receipt of the complaint within five days of receiving the complaint. Within 15
business days of receipt of the written complaint, the Board shall meet to
determine if there is sufficient evidence to warrant an investigation.
   (B)   If the Board, by a vote of four members, determines that the complaint
does not merit investigation, the complaint shall be dismissed and notice of
dismissal shall be mailed, registered or certified mail, to the complainant
within five business days.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.082 TIME LIMITS.
   Complaints must be made under this section within one year after the
violation alleged in the complaint has been committed.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.083 CONFIDENTIALITY OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints confidential. No public official, employee or member of
a board or commission who has access to any confidential information related to
the functions or activities of the board shall divulge that information to any
person who is not authorized to have it. The identity of a person who requests
a confidential advisory ethics opinion is confidential, as is information
describing or pertaining to any organization mentioned in the request for an
opinion if the disclosure of the information could lead to the disclosure of
the identity of the person requesting the confidential advisory opinion.
   (B)   Waiver of confidentiality. A person who makes or purports to make
public the substance of or any portion of an advisory opinion requested by or
on behalf of that person is deemed to have waived the confidentiality of the
request for an advisory opinion and of any records obtained or prepared by the
board in connection with the request for an advisory opinion.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.084 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Initiation of investigation. Upon the sworn complaint, on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, signed under penalty of false statement, of
any person, or upon its own complaint, alleging facts which if true would
constitute improper conduct under the provisions of the Charter of the city or
this chapter, the Board of Ethics shall conduct an investigation of the alleged
violation.
   (B)   Notice to respondent.
      (1)   Generally. The Board of Ethics shall not later than five days after
receipt or issuance of the complaint notify by registered or certified mail any
public official, employee or member of a board or commission or person against
whom the complaint (the "respondent") is filed and a copy of the complaint
shall accompany the notice.
      (2)   Additional notice.
         (a)   The Board of Ethics shall not later than five days after receipt
or issuance of the complaint notify by registered or certified mail:
            1.   The supervisor of any public official, employee or member of a
board or commission against whom the complaint is filed; or
            2.   The appropriate department head, in the case of a board or
commission member, and a copy of the complaint shall accompany the notice.
         (b)   The Board of Ethics shall also notify the complainant of its
receipt of the complaint not later than five days thereafter.
   (C)   Investigation of probable cause. The Board of Ethics shall attempt to
conclude all investigations to determine whether or not there is probable cause
that a violation of the Charter of the city or the code of ordinances has
occurred, within 60 days of the initiation of any complaint hereunder.
   (D)   Determination of probable cause.
      (1)   Generally. The Board of Ethics shall make no finding that there is
probable cause to believe that the respondent is in violation of any provision
of the Charter of the city or the code of ordinances, except upon the
concurring vote of three of its members.
      (2)   Notification of determination. The Board of Ethics shall not later
than three business days after the termination of the investigation notify the
complainant and the respondent that the investigation has been terminated and
the results thereof.
   (E)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Generally. Public hearings shall be conducted in a manner fair to
the respondent and in conformity with the requirements of the Freedom of
Information Act.
      (2)   Rights of the respondent. The respondent shall have the right to:
         (a)   Appear and be heard and to offer any information, which may tend
to clear him of probable cause indicating that he has violated any provision of
the Charter of the city or this chapter; and
         (b)   Be represented by legal counsel, at his expense, and examine and
cross-examine witnesses.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.085 APPEAL.
   (A)   General. Except as provided under division (B) below, a decision of
the Board of Ethics under §
39.100 (Civil and Administrative Remedies Against Employees Who Breach Ethical
Standards) or §
39.101 (Civil and Administrative Remedies Against Non-Employees Who Breach
Ethical Standards) shall be reviewable in accordance with such administrative
procedures as may be adopted by the city.
   (B)   Debarment or suspension. A decision of the Board of Ethics regarding
debarment or suspension under §
39.101 (Civil and Administrative Remedies Against Non-Employees Who Breach
Ethical Standards, Supplemental Remedies) shall be subject to legal challenge
permitted under the laws of the State of Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
REMEDIES
§ 39.100 CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICIALS OR
EMPLOYEES WHO BREACH ETHICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Existing remedies not impaired. Civil and administrative remedies
against public officials or employees, which are in existence on the effective
date of this code, shall not be impaired.
   (B)   Supplemental remedies. Subject to the provisions of collective
bargaining agreements, in addition to existing remedies for breach of the
ethical standards of this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder, the
Board of Ethics may impose any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Oral or written warnings or reprimands;
      (2)   Suspension with or without pay for specified periods of time, if
applicable; and
      (3)   Termination of employment.
   (C)   Right to recovery from public officials or employees for value
received in breach of ethical standards. The value of anything received by a
public official, employee or member of a board or commission in breach of the
Charter of the city or the provisions of the code of ordinances or, regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall be recoverable by the city as provided in §
39.103 (Recovery of Value Transferred or Received in Breach of Ethical
Standards).
   (D)   Due process. All procedures under this chapter shall be exercised in
accordance with due process requirements and existing law. In addition, notice
and an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided prior to imposition of any
suspension or termination of employment.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.101 CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES AGAINST NON-EMPLOYEES WHO BREACH
ETHICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Existing remedies not impaired. Civil and administrative remedies
against non-employees which are in existence on the effective date of this
chapter shall not be impaired.
   (B)   Supplemental remedies. In addition to existing remedies for breach of
the ethical standards of this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder, the
Board of Ethics may impose any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Written warnings or reprimands;
      (2)   Termination of transactions; and
      (3)   Debarment or suspension from being a contractor or subcontractor
under city contracts.
   (C)   Right to recovery from non-employee value transferred in breach of
ethical standards. The value of anything transferred in breach of the ethical
standards of this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder by a non-
employee shall be recoverable by the city as provided in §
39.103 (Recovery of Value Transferred or Received in Breach of Ethical
Standards).
   (D)   Right of the city to debar or suspend. Debarment or suspension may be
imposed by the Board of Ethics in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
38.116 of the code (Authority to Debar or Suspend) for breach of the ethical
standards of this chapter; provided that, the action may not be taken without
the concurrence of the Corporation Counsel.
   (E)   Due process. All procedures under this chapter shall be exercised in
accordance with due process requirements, including, but not limited to, a
right to notice and an opportunity for a hearing prior to imposition of any
termination, debarment or suspension from being a contractor or subcontractor
under a city contract.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.102 CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES AGAINST ELECTED OFFICIALS WHO BREACH
ETHICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Existing remedies not impaired. Civil and administrative remedies
against elected officials, which are in existence on the effective date of this
chapter shall not be impaired.
   (B)   Supplemental remedies. In addition to existing remedies for breach of
the ethical standards of this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder, the
Board of Ethics may impose any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Written warnings or reprimands;
      (2)   Suspension with or without pay for a specified period of time, if
applicable; and
      (3)   Recommendation of removal proceedings by the Board of Aldermen as
set forth in the charter of the city.
   (C)   Right to recovery from elected officials value transferred in breach
of ethical standards. The value of anything transferred in breach of the
ethical standards of this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder by an
elected official shall be recoverable by the city as provided in §
39.103 (Recovery of Value Transferred or Received in Breach of Ethical
Standards).
   (D)   Due process. All procedures under this chapter shall be exercised in
accordance with due process requirements and existing law. In addition, notice
and an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided prior to imposition of any
penalty.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.103 RECOVERY OF VALUE TRANSFERRED OR RECEIVED IN BREACH OF ETHICAL
STANDARDS.
   (A)   General provisions. The value of anything transferred or received in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or regulations promulgated
hereunder by any person subject to this chapter may be recovered by the city.
   (B)   Recovery of kickbacks by the city. Upon a showing that a subcontractor
made a kickback to the city, a prime contractor or a higher tier subcontractor
in connection with the award of a subcontract or order thereunder, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the amount thereof was included in the price of the
subcontract or order and ultimately borne by the city and will be recoverable
hereunder from the recipient. In addition, the value may also be recovered from
the subcontractor making such kickbacks. Recovery from one offending party
shall not preclude recovery from other offending parties.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
APPLICATION
§ 39.115 SAVINGS CAUSE.
   Should any provision of this code of ethics conflict with any provisions of
federal law or the state general statutes, the provisions of the federal law or
the state general statutes shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.116 DISTRIBUTION OF CODE.
   The City Clerk shall cause a copy of this chapter, or a summary thereof, to
be distributed to every public official, employee, member of a board or
commission and those conducting business with the city within 60 days after
enactment of this chapter. Each public official, employee and member of a board
or commission shall be furnished a copy before entering upon the duties of his
office or employment. Each prospective vendor shall receive a copy upon request
or upon submission of a bid or response to a solicitation governed by
Chapter 38 of the code of ordinances. A signed receipt for all copies shall be
returned to the City Clerk and retained on file. The City Clerk shall make
additional copies available without charge to any person engaged in any
transaction with the city.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
§ 39.117 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended only by ordinance in conformity with the
provisions of the Charter of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 40: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Subjects of interlocal agreements
   
40.03   Procedure for entering agreements
   
40.04   Advisory board
   
40.05   Reimbursement of expenses of advisory board
   
40.06   Provisions required in agreements
   
40.07   Financing of activities
   
40.08   State and federal aid
   
40.09   Agreement to have status of compact; parties in event of controversy
   
40.10   Authority to be in addition to other powers
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERLOCAL ADVISORY BOARD. A board established pursuant to this chapter.
   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT. An agreement entered into pursuant to this chapter.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. Has the meaning assigned to it by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-
1 but, where the legislative body is the town meeting, the requirements of this
chapter as to holding public hearings by a legislative body shall not apply. As
to the City of Waterbury, the LEGISLATIVE BODY shall be the Board of Aldermen.
   PARTICIPATING PUBLIC AGENCY. A party to an interlocal agreement.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any city, town or borough, including the City of Waterbury,
or any district as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-324, or any metropolitan
district or any municipal district of the State of Connecticut created under
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-330, and any local governmental unit, subdivision or
special district of another state.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.02 SUBJECTS OF INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Waterbury may participate in developing and implementing
interlocal agreements with any public agency or agencies of the state or any
other state or states providing for any of the following:
      (1)   The exchange, furnishing or providing by one or more of the
participating public agencies to one or more of the other participating public
agencies, or the furnishing or providing for the joint use or benefit of the
several participating public agencies, of services, personnel, facilities,
equipment or any other property or resources for any one or more of the
following purposes or uses: Fire prevention and fire fighting; police
protection and police services; supply of water, gas or electricity; garbage
collection and disposal; sewer lines and sewage treatment and disposal; refuse
collection and disposal, and establishment or use of public dumps; storm
drainage; establishment or use of airports or landing fields; public
entertainment and amusement; establishment or use of parks, public gardens,
gymnasiums, playgrounds, swimming pools, community centers, recreation centers
or other recreational areas or facilities; establishment and preservation of
open spaces; control of air and water pollution; planning services; engineering
services; lighting; ambulance service; fire and police radio and communication
systems; hospital service; public health services; mental health services;
establishment or care of cemeteries; library or bookmobile services;
suppression or control of plant and animal pests or diseases; flood control;
water conservation; public shade tree protection services; traffic services;
transportation services; redevelopment services and publicizing the advantages
of the region;
      (2)   The establishment of an interlocal advisory board or boards to
recommend programs and policies for cooperative or uniform action in any fields
of activity permitted or authorized hereunder for each participating public
agency, and from time to time to advise with the appropriate officials of the
participating public agencies in respect to the programs, policies or fields of
activity; and
      (3)   The establishment and maintenance of interlocal employees or
officers of the participating public agencies for the purpose of administering
or assisting in any of the undertakings contemplated by division (A)(1) above
or for the purpose of performing services for an interlocal advisory board as
authorized by division (A)(2) above. Such employees or officers, if not
continuing in or eligible for the merit system, insurance and pension benefits
and status of employment with a participating public agency, may continue in
such status or be made eligible therefor if the interlocal agreement contains
appropriate provisions to this effect. An interlocal advisory board may enter
into an agreement with the federal Secretary of Health and Human Services to
provide Old Age and Survivors Insurance coverage to employees of the board.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to authorize or
permit the City of Waterbury or any other public agency of this state to
receive, obtain, furnish or provide services, facilities, personnel, equipment
or any other property or resources, or to engage in or perform any function or
activity by means of an interlocal agreement, if it does not have
constitutional or statutory power or authorization to receive, obtain, furnish
or provide the same or substantially similar services, facilities, personnel,
equipment, other property or resources or to engage in or perform the same or a
substantially similar function or activity on its own account.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.03 PROCEDURE FOR ENTERING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Waterbury shall submit to the Board of Aldermen and any
public agency or public agencies with which it is proposing an interlocal
agreement shall submit to its legislative body a copy of the proposed
interlocal agreement as it may have prepared. Within 30 days after receipt
thereof, the Board of Aldermen and any such legislative body of each other
participating public agency shall hold at least one public hearing on such
proposed agreement and, within 15 days after the hearing, or the last of the
hearings, the Board of Aldermen and each such legislative body shall submit to
each other participating public agency any recommendations for changes in the
proposed agreement that it may deem desirable.
   (B)   If no recommendations for changes are submitted to the public agency,
the agreement shall be deemed final. If recommendations for changes are
submitted within such time, after consideration thereof, the public agencies
shall submit a final report to the legislative body of each participating
public agency, together with a copy of its proposed agreement, if it has been
revised in any respect.
   (C)   Within 30 days after an agreement has become final, it shall be either
ratified or rejected by vote of the legislative body of each participating
public agency. If, by any general or special law, ordinance, charter provision,
bylaw, corporate article or district rule or regulation, any subject contained
in an interlocal agreement must be submitted to a referendum before being
undertaken individually by such agency or jointly by the agency and any other
public agency, the agreement shall be submitted to a referendum of the electors
of the public agency and shall not be deemed ratified by the public agency
until approved at the referendum.
   (D)   Unless an interlocal agreement requires ratification by a specific
number of participating public agencies, it shall take effect as to ratifying
agencies at such time as it shall provide, when ratified by any two
participating agencies. Rejection by any participating agency shall not void an
agreement as to other ratifying agencies, unless the agreement so provides.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.04 ADVISORY BOARD.
   The City of Waterbury and each other participating public agency of this
state shall be represented on any interlocal advisory board, if any,
established by an interlocal agreement to which it is a party. Its
representatives shall be appointed by the Board of Aldermen or the respective
legislative body of any other participating public agency of this state, or in
such other manner as shall be prescribed by the Board of Aldermen or any such
other legislative body. The qualifications, terms of office and compensation,
if any, of the representatives shall be prescribed by the Board of Aldermen and
any such other legislative body, subject to any applicable provisions of the
interlocal agreement.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.05 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES OF ADVISORY BOARD.
   In addition to paying the compensation as may be prescribed pursuant to §
40.04, the City of Waterbury or a participating public agency of this state may
reimburse its representatives on an interlocal advisory board for expenses for
travel, both within and without this state, incurred by them in connection with
services on such board.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.06 PROVISIONS REQUIRED IN AGREEMENTS.
   Each interlocal agreement shall contain the following:
   (A)   A statement of the duration of the agreement, which duration shall not
exceed 20 years;
   (B)   Appropriate provisions relating to the termination or renewal of the
agreement as may be desirable and/or as required by the Charter and/or
ordinances of the City of Waterbury. At a minimum, such agreement shall
specifically allow for termination by the City of Waterbury for cause, for
convenience and, where appropriate, for non-appropriation of funding. The
agreement shall further specifically provide that any renewal thereof shall
require notice of intent to renew to the provider participating public agency
at least one year in advance of contract expiration. When the provider
participating public agency is the City of Waterbury, any renewal shall only be
upon terms and conditions negotiated by the Mayor and approved by the Board of
Aldermen at the time of renewal;
   (C)   The purpose or purposes of the agreement;
   (D)   Provisions for the payment by a participating public agency of
consideration for receiving or obtaining services, personnel, facilities,
equipment, other property or resources from another participating public agency
or agencies. The consideration shall be a prorated share of the total cost of
the services, personnel, facilities, equipment and/or other property or
resources furnished or provided. The cost may be prorated on the basis of any
reasonable formula agreeable to the respective participating public agencies;
provided, however, that, whenever the City of Waterbury is the provider public
agency, the amount per unit billed to the other public agency shall be equal to
or greater than the cost to the citizens of the City of Waterbury unless
prohibited by federal or state law or regulation, the Charter or ordinances,
existing contracts or otherwise. Any such payment condition shall be explicitly
set forth in the interlocal agreement;
   (E)   Such provisions as may be feasible for the indemnification of
participating public agencies and their officials, officers or employees, by
means of insurance or otherwise, against any losses, damages or liabilities
arising out of the receiving, obtaining, furnishing or providing of services,
personnel, facilities, equipment or any other property or resources pursuant to
the interlocal agreement;
   (F)   If the interlocal agreement establishes an interlocal advisory board
or boards:
      (1)   Provisions governing the nature and scope of activities with
respect to which the board shall make studies, recommend programs and policies
and give advice;
      (2)   Provisions or procedures relating to the manner in which the
interlocal advisory board or boards shall make reports;
      (3)   Provisions for the furnishing by one or more of the participating
public agencies of the office space, office or other facilities or equipment,
supplies and professional, technical or clerical help as may be required in the
work of the interlocal advisory board or boards, and provisions for the sharing
of the expenses thereof;
      (4)   Provisions relating to the payment or sharing of the costs of
compensation of members of the interlocal advisory board or boards, and
reimbursement for their traveling expenses; and
      (5)   Such other provisions as may be appropriate and desirable governing
the establishment, functioning and termination of the interlocal advisory board
or boards.
   (G)   Provisions governing the adjudication or settlement of disputes,
including negotiation of settlements, giving of notices and any and all other
matters necessary or appropriate to the performance of the interlocal
agreement.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.07 FINANCING OF ACTIVITIES.
   All costs and expenses which the City of Waterbury or a participating public
agency of this state incurs in connection with the receiving, obtaining,
providing or furnishing of services, personnel, facilities, equipment, other
property or resources or the engaging in or performance of functions or
activities under an interlocal agreement shall be incurred, appropriated,
raised, financed and audited in the same manner and subject to the same
statutory provisions and restrictions as though the City of Waterbury or the
participating public agency were receiving, obtaining or providing the same or
substantially similar services, personnel, facilities, equipment, other
property or resources or engaging in or performing the same or substantially
similar functions or activities without an interlocal agreement.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.08 STATE AND FEDERAL AID.
   (A)   If the function or activity to be performed under an interlocal
agreement is by the law of this state entitled to state aid, the City of
Waterbury and/or any other participating public agency of this state may claim
state aid pursuant to law.
   (B)   Any interlocal advisory board established pursuant to this chapter may
claim and shall be eligible for any grants or other assistance which may be
available from the government of the United States or any agency thereof and
for which it may qualify pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.09 AGREEMENT TO HAVE STATUS OF COMPACT; PARTIES IN EVENT OF CONTROVERSY.
   Where applicable, any interlocal agreement entered into pursuant to this
chapter shall explicitly state that it shall have the status of an interstate
compact pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-339k. In any case of controversy
involving the performance or interpretation of the interlocal agreement or
liability thereunder, the City of Waterbury and any other contracting public
agencies shall be the real parties in interest, and the states in which they
are located shall not be parties solely because of the status of the interlocal
agreement as an interstate compact.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
§ 40.10 AUTHORITY TO BE IN ADDITION TO OTHER POWERS.
   The authorization in this chapter to receive, obtain, provide or furnish any
services, facilities, personnel, equipment, property or other resources, or
perform or engage in any functions or activities by means of an interlocal
agreement, shall be in addition to and not in substitution for or in limitation
of any authorizations for joint or cooperative agreements or undertakings
contained in other provisions of the law of this state; provided, if any of the
provisions of this chapter, as authorized by the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat.
§§ 7-339a to 7-3391, inclusive, are in conflict with any other statutes of this
state providing for the authorization or performance of joint or cooperative
agreements or undertakings between public agencies of this state and public
agencies of other states, the provisions of such other statutes shall be
controlling.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2005)
CHAPTER 41: BUDGET DELIBERATIONS OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Section
   
41.11   Fees and charges
§ 41.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The Mayor shall propose and the Board of Aldermen shall approve, in
conjunction with the adoption of the annual budget, a schedule of fees; charges
for services, licenses and other purposes of the city; penalties and rewards
for the ensuing fiscal year, commencing on July 1. The fees, charges, penalties
and rewards shall be established in accordance with the laws of the State of
Connecticut and best practices in the applicable field.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   STORMWATER CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Refuse Removal
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Solid waste management
   
50.03   Board of Public Works to make regulations
   
50.04   Storage, collection and removal of wastes
   
50.05   Place of disposal
   
50.06   Use of city facilities by private persons or political subdivisions;
monetary penalties
   
50.07   Septage disposal fee; exemption
   
50.08   Precedence of provisions
Recycling
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Authority and powers
   
50.22   Separation and collection
   
50.23   Compliance required
Mandatory Leaf Waste Composting
   
50.35   Program established
   
50.36   Definitions
   
50.37   Separation of compostable leaf waste material and yard trimmings;
placement for removal
   
50.38   Ownership of compostable leaf waste materials
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate the disposal of garbage, rubbish or waste
material, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(4)(H)
REFUSE REMOVAL
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL INCINERATOR. The buildings and facilities provided for the purpose
of burning of Type 1 wastes, hereinafter defined.
   RESTRICTED DISPOSAL AREA. Those areas operated, maintained or designated by
the Board of Public Works for the purpose of disposing of hereinafter specified
types of waste.
   WASTES.
      (1)   Type 1 wastes.
         GARBAGE. All waste animal, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter
resulting from the handling, storage, preparation and cooking of food.
      (2)   Type 2 wastes.
         NONCOMBUSTIBLE WASTES. Metal drink containers, glass and plastic food
or drink containers, cans, bottles, pipe, scrap metal, auto parts, bed springs,
glassware, earthenware, wire, spring mattress, furniture and other wastes of
similar nature.
      (3)   Type 3 wastes.
         BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION WASTES. Materials resulting from the
construction, alteration, repair or demolition of structures such as plaster,
metal, brick, concrete, lathing, roofing, earth, wooden or metal structural
members and other similar material.
      (4)   Type 4 wastes.
         INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The nonputrescible, non-combustible and non-
hazardous wastes that accumulate from manufacturing and industrial operations.
      (5)   Type 5 wastes.
         HAZARDOUS WASTES. Cleaning fluids, all other highly volatile fluids,
crankcase oils, cutting oils, paints, plastics, explosives, acids, caustics,
poisons, drugs, radioactive materials and wastes of similar nature.
      (6)   Type 6 wastes.
         DEAD ANIMALS AND ANIMAL WASTES. All dead animals greater than one-half
pound in weight, all parts of dead animals, offal, all human and animal excreta
and other wastes of animal nature.
      (7)   Recyclables.
         (a)   Notwithstanding any of the prior definitions in this section the
following items which have been designated by the Connecticut Department of
Environmental Protection as recyclables shall be considered to be mandatory
items to be recycled by the municipality. In addition, any other items which at
any later point are determined by the Board of Public Works pursuant to its
authority to be mandatory recyclables may be added to this list.
            1.   Corrugated cardboard;
            2.   Glass food and beverage containers;
            3.   Leaves;
            4.   Metal food and beverage containers;
            5.   Newspapers;
            6.   White office paper;
            7.   Scrap metal;
            8.   Storage batteries; and
            9.   Waste oil.
         (b)   The definition of these items is more specifically contained in
§
50.20.
(1967 Code, § 8-18) (Ord. passed 5-11-1992)
§ 50.02 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The legislative body of a municipality may designate the area where
refuse generated within its boundaries by residential, business, commercial or
other establishments shall be disposed. The legislative body shall give not
less than 60 days' notice of its intent to designate the area to all collectors
hauling refuse of the municipality. At the conclusion of the period, the
legislative body shall cause notice of the designation to appear in a newspaper
of general circulation in the municipality and shall conduct a public hearing
thereon.
   (B)   Recyclable materials, including, but not limited to, glass, metal,
paper, corrugated paper or plastic, may be removed or segregated at the source
of generation or prior to disposal at the designated area.
   (C)   Any collector hauling refuse generated by residential, business,
commercial or other establishments in a municipality shall register in the
municipality and disclose the name of any other municipality in which the
collector hauls such refuse.
   (D)   The door of any private vehicle used to haul refuse shall be clearly
marked with the business name and address of the hauler.
(1967 Code, § 8-18.1) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Designation by municipality of areas for solid waste disposal; designation
of areas for items generated from residential properties; registration of solid
waste collectors; scavenging, see Conn. Gen Stat. § 22a-220a
§ 50.03 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO MAKE REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Public Works shall regulate the control, collection and
disposal of all types of wastes herein provided for that may accumulate on
private or public property within the city. It may require the assistance of
any other board or department in the enforcement of this subchapter or of any
regulations pursuant thereto.
(1967 Code, § 8-19)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Public Works, see§
31.140 through
31.143
§ 50.04 STORAGE, COLLECTION AND REMOVAL OF WASTES.
   The Board of Public Works shall establish regulations regulating the
storage, collection and removal of wastes on or from public or private property
whether the storage, collection or removal is done by the city or by private
owners or operators.
(1967 Code, § 8-20)
   (A)   Private dwellings.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works shall regulate the storage of Types 1 and
2 wastes at all private dwellings and households and shall be responsible for
the removal and disposal of Type 1 and Type 2 wastes from all private dwellings
and households.
      (2)   The storage, collection and removal of all types of wastes other
than Type 1 and Type 2 in connection with private dwellings and households
shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter and the regulations of
the Board of Public Works promulgated pursuant hereto.
      (3)   A private dwelling shall be defined as real estate containing one
or more dwelling units but shall not include hospitals, motels, hotels, nursing
homes or condominium units, as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 47-68a et seq.,
or property not fronting on or accessible from a public street or apartment
complexes or apartment buildings of ten or more units.
(1967 Code, § 8-21)
   (B)   Commercial, business, industrial and nonresidential property.
      (1)   The removal of all types of wastes from commercial, business,
industrial and nonresidential properties shall be the responsibility of the
owner but shall be subject to regulation by the Board of Public Works.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works may remove and dispose of such quantities
of Type 1 and Type 2 wastes from commercial, business, industrial and
nonresidential properties as the capacities of the city's collection and
disposal system may be able to handle. The removal and disposal shall be
subject to regulation by the Board of Public Works.
(1967 Code, § 8-22)
(Ord. passed 5-11-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PLACE OF DISPOSAL.
   The Board of Public Works shall be empowered to order the immediate removal
by the owner of wastes disposed of in a manner or place not in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter or with the regulations of the Board of
Public Works pertaining thereto.
(1967 Code, § 8-23)
§ 50.06 USE OF CITY FACILITIES BY PRIVATE PERSONS OR POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS;
MONETARY PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works may permit the use of city disposal areas
and facilities by owners of motor vehicles or their agents subject to such
regulations as the Board may establish; provided:
      (1)   It shall be done at his own risk and upon the following terms and
conditions: In consideration of the foregoing grants and privileges herein
specified, the owner or his agent shall, as a condition precedent, release the
city from any right of action, claim or demand which may otherwise accrue to
him by reason of the loss of any of his property while in, upon or about the
premises at the municipal incinerator or other municipally-owned disposal
areas, and further agrees for the consideration, to indemnify the city and save
it harmless from all claims, demands, actions, costs and charges to which the
city may be subject or which it may have to pay by reason of any injury to any
person or property or loss of life or property suffered or sustained by any
owner and/or agent while in, upon or about the premises of the city incinerator
or waste disposal areas, whether the loss arises from the negligence of the
employees, agents or servants of the city or otherwise;
      (2)   When the owner is another subdivision of the state, the use of city
facilities shall be on the basis of a contract with such other subdivision
which shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 40 of this code.
   (B)   No private noncommercially licensed or noncombination licensed motor
vehicle shall be permitted to dump or dispose of solid wastes at any
municipally-owned disposal area unless its owner produces a state driver's
license showing that he is a resident of Waterbury or Wolcott.
   (C)   (1)   Any motor vehicle bearing commercial or combination license
plates must be licensed by the city in order to dump or dispose of solid wastes
at any municipally-owned disposal areas, and shall have affixed to the vehicle
at a location determined by the Superintendent of Waste Disposal a special
license hereinafter termed "hauler license" obtained from the office of the
City Clerk of the city. Fee charged annually for the hauler license shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Vehicle tare weight as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code;
         (b)   All motor vehicles bearing commercial or combination license
plates must weigh in before dumping at any municipally-owned disposal areas.
Tare weights shall be made at the municipal scales and shall be certified by
the weigher or scale operator to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall not issue the hauler license to any hauler
against whom the city commenced legal action to collect any unpaid fees for
using municipal facilities.
   (D)   (1)   The above licenses shall expire on April 30 of each year. All
owners of vehicles requiring licenses must obtain and affix to their vehicles
new hauler licenses prior to May 1 of each year or they will not be permitted
to dump at the city's incinerator or other disposal areas. Hauler licenses
renewed for the ensuing year shall be obtained from the office of the Town
Clerk under the same procedure as required for obtaining initial hauler
licenses, as detailed in division (C) above. Insofar as possible, renewal
licenses shall bear the same number as the initial hauler licenses. New or
renewal licenses purchased on or after April 1 for the ensuing year beginning
May 1 shall be considered valid for use after April 1.
      (2)   The schedule of fees for hauler licenses listed in division (C)
above notwithstanding, a prorated fee schedule shall be used for haulers
obtaining licenses for less than the full year, based on the schedule shown
below:
         (a)   Full charge for licenses obtained between May 1 and July 31;
         (b)   Seventy-five percent charge for licenses obtained between August
1 and October 31;
         (c)   Fifty percent charge for licenses obtained between November 1
and January 31; and
         (d)   Twenty-five percent charge for licenses obtained between
February 1 and March 31.
   (E)   In addition to the above, owners of the motor vehicles bearing
commercial or combination license plates shall be charged, based on the weight
and content of each load, subject to a fee schedule adopted by the Board of
Public Works.
      (1)   An owner of a motor vehicle bearing commercial or combination
license plates using the premises for such purposes shall be billed monthly in
accordance with the rates provided above by the Bureau of Waste Disposal of the
city and shall pay the same to the tax collector of the city within 30 days of
due date. If the amount due is not paid in full on or before the twenty-first
day of the month next succeeding the month in which it became due and payable,
then the whole or such part of the bill which remains unpaid shall thereupon be
delinquent and shall be subject to interest at the rate of 18% per annum from
the time when it became due and payable until the same is paid. Further, the
hauler's right to use the areas shall be suspended until the principal and
interest owed are paid in full.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Waste Disposal, at his discretion, may for
any delinquent bill discontinue the regular monthly billing and turn the bill
over to the Corporation Counsel's office for collection.
      (3)   If the hauler is delinquent three times during the licensing
period, then the hauler must post a letter of credit in an amount and form
deemed sufficient by the Superintendent of Waste Disposal in order to resume
use of any municipal disposal facilities.
      (4)   If a hauler license is lost, misplaced or mutilated, there shall be
a charge of $5 for each replacement, which shall be paid by the owner at the
office of the Town Clerk of the city prior to the issuance of same. The owner
shall not transfer his hauler license to any other vehicle without first
receiving permission to do so from the Bureau of Waste Disposal.
   (F)   No resident sticker or hauler license shall be issued unless the motor
vehicle is registered with the state and is owned by a city resident, except
when the home office of a local firm is located in another city or state and
because of this the local firm's vehicles are licensed in another state. No
nonresident driver of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle hauling a trailer,
whether owned or rented or borrowed, shall otherwise be allowed to dump at the
municipal incinerator or other municipal disposal area.
   (G)   If, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Waste Disposal, it is
advisable to change the method of identifying the noncommercially licensed or
noncombination licensed or motor vehicles bearing commercial or combination
license plates he may do so, subject to the approval of the Board of Public
Works.
   (H)   If the city in the future utilizes additional areas and/or sites for
the purpose of waste disposal, then the provisions of this section shall
pertain to such additional areas and/or sites.
   (I)   The dumping of refuse or solid wastes at the municipal incinerator or
other municipally-owned disposal areas from any source outside the city is
prohibited, except in those cases where there exists a contract between the
city and another subdivision of the state permitting the latter to use the
facilities.
      (1)   The Superintendent of Waste Disposal shall enforce the provisions
of this division (I) and any other regulation established by the Board of
Public Works, pursuant hereto. The Superintendent shall impose the following
penalties against any owner of a motor vehicle bearing commercial or
combination plates who violates any provisions of this division (I) or
regulations, provided that notice in writing is given to the owner by certified
mail to the address listed on the hauler license.
         (a)   First violation. Up to two weeks’ suspension of all of owner’s
motor vehicles bearing commercial or combination license plates from the use of
the city’s waste disposal areas and/or, additionally, the monetary penalty as
set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to
the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each motor vehicle bearing commercial or combination
license plates for which the owner has been issued at that time such special
license by the city.
         (b)   Second violation. Up to 30 days’ suspension of all the owner’s
motor vehicles bearing commercial or combination license plates from the use of
the city’s waste disposal areas and/or, additionally, a monetary penalty as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each motor vehicle bearing commercial and combination
license plates for which the owner has been issued at the time by the city a
special license.
         (c)   Third violation. The owner’s right to the use of the city’s
waste disposal areas shall be permanently revoked.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, the owner, in the case of a violation or
violations, shall pay the monetary penalty or penalties imposed, prior to again
utilizing the waste disposal areas and the same shall apply to all such
vehicles he may own.
      (3)   The owner has the right to appeal any penalty imposed by the
Superintendent of Waste Disposal to the Bureau of Public Works within 15 days
of the mailing of the penalty notice.
      (4)   The Superintendent shall impose the following penalties against any
operator of a motor vehicle bearing commercial or combination plates who
violates any provision of this division (I) or regulations, provided that
notice in writing is given to the operator by certified mail to the address
listed on the hauler license.
         (a)   First violation. Up to two weeks’ suspension from the use of the
city’s waste disposal areas and/or additionally, a monetary penalty as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
         (b)   Second violation. Up to two months’ suspension from the use of
the city’s waste disposal areas and/or additionally, a monetary penalty as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
         (c)   Third violation. Permanent suspension from the use of the city’s
waste disposal areas.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the above, the operator, in the case of a violation
or violations, shall pay the monetary penalty or penalties imposed, prior to
again utilizing the waste disposal areas.
      (6)   The operator has the right to appeal any penalty imposed by the
Superintendent of Waste Disposal to the Bureau of Public Works within 15 days
of the mailing of the penalty notice.
(1967 Code, § 8-24) (Ord. passed 4-12-1972; Ord. passed 4-11-1989; Ord. passed
2-20-1990; Ord. passed 5-11-1992; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 50.07 SEPTAGE DISPOSAL FEE; EXEMPTION.
   The disposal fee for the septage, generated within the city shall be
exempted from the current disposal fee at the water pollution control plant
subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Each homeowner shall be allowed to dump once a year maximum, not to
exceed 1,500 gallons.
   (B)   All homeowners and haulers shall fill out the attached form and submit
same to the plant in order to verify the source.
   (C)   Violators of this exception shall be charged twice as much as the
posted dumping fee (i.e., $100/1,000 gal.).
(1967 Code, § 8-26.1) (Ord. passed 4-11-1989; Ord. passed 8-21-1989)
§ 50.08 PRECEDENCE OF PROVISIONS.
   All provisions of this code or other ordinances or portions of ordinances of
the city inconsistent with the provisions of §§
50.06 and
50.99 are hereby repealed as to the inconsistency.
(1967 Code, § 8-26)
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works of the city. When used in reference to a
voting body, it shall be taken to include the phrase "or a majority thereof".
   CARDBOARD. Corrugated boxes and similar material and Kraft paper materials
which are unwaxed and have a minimum of contamination by food or other
material.
   COLLECTOR. Any person who holds himself out for hire to collect recyclables
and/or refuse from residential, commercial, industrial or other sources.
   COMMINGLED. Mixed recyclables that are collected together.
   DRY CELL BATTERY. Any device used in generating electric current through a
chemical reaction including, but not limited to, nickel-cadmium batteries,
carbon batteries and alkaline batteries.
   GLASS FOOD AND BEVERAGE CONTAINER. A glass bottle or jar of any size or
shape used to package food products suitable for human or animal consumption
with a minimum of contamination by food or other sources.
   HDPE CONTAINER. Any high-density polyethylene bottle or container of any
size or shape used to store food, household laundry detergent or other
nonhazardous or nontoxic materials.
   LEAVES. Deciduous and coniferous seasonal deposition.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Waterbury.
   MANDATED RECYCLABLES. Those recyclables which have been designated by the
DEP and any additional items which have been designated by the Board of Public
Works that are mandated to be recycled within the municipality. Those items
currently designated as mandated are as follows:
      (1)   Cardboard;
      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;
      (3)   Leaves;
      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;
      (5)   Newspapers;
      (6)   White office paper;
      (7)   Scrap metal;
      (8)   Storage batteries; and
      (9)   Waste oil.
   METAL FOOD AND BEVERAGE CONTAINER. An aluminum, bi-metal, tin plated steel
or other metallic can, plate or tray of any size used to package food for human
or animal consumption which has minimum of contamination by food or other
materials.
   MUNICIPAL AGENT. The person designated by the Board of Public Works to
administer the notice and enforcement provisions of this subchapter.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Waterbury, Connecticut.
   NEWSPAPER. Used or discarded newsprint (newspaper advertisements,
supplements, comics and newsprint-type enclosures) which has a minimum of
contamination by food or other material.
   OPTIONAL RECYCLABLES. Those recyclables which may be designated to be
recycled by the DEP or the Board to be recycled through a voluntary or
mandatory pilot recycling program. Those items currently designated as OPTIONAL
RECYCLABLES are as follows:
      (1)   Dry-cell batteries;
      (2)   HDPE plastic containers;
      (3)   PET plastic containers; and
      (4)   Scrap tires.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association or other
entity or organization, either public or private, of any kind.
   PET. Polyethylene terephthalate container of any size or shape used to
package beverages.
   RECYCLABLES. Any item designated by the DEP or the Board of Public Works
which can be separated or diverted as defined below under RECYCLE.
   RECYCLE. To separate or divert an item or items from the solid waste stream
for the purposes of processing it, causing it to be processed, or storing it
for later processing into a material product, including the production of
compost, in order to provide for disposition of the item or items in a manner,
other than incineration or landfills. Nothing in this definition shall preclude
the use of waste oil as a fuel in an oil burner, or scrap tires as fuel in an
incinerator.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. Any container designated by the Board of Public Works
for use as a residential property (curbside) recycling container for the
storage and (curbside) collection of recyclables.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Real estate containing one or more dwelling units, but
shall not include hospitals, motels, hotels or nursing homes, or condominium
units as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 47-68a et seq. or property not fronting
on or accessible from a public street, or apartment complexes, or apartment
buildings of ten or more units.
   SCRAP METAL. Used or discarded items which consist predominantly of ferrous
metals, aluminum, brass, lead chromium, iron, nickel or alloys thereof
including, but not limited to, white goods and metal food containers.
   SCRAP TIRES. Discarded rubber or synthetic rubber tires used by or
manufactured for vehicles including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
buses, tractors and trailers.
   STORAGE BATTERIES. Lead acid batteries or other batteries used in motor
vehicles such as automobiles, airplanes, boats, recreational vehicles, tractors
and like applications.
   WASTE OIL. Crankcase oil that has been utilized in internal combustion
engines.
   WHITE OFFICE PAPER. Any used or discarded high grade white paper and Manila
paper including, but not limited to, paper used for file folders, tab cards,
writing, typing, printing, computer printing and photocopying, which is
suitable for recycling and which has a minimum of contamination. For purposes
of this subchapter, the foregoing definitions of office paper shall exclude any
such paper generated from residential properties.
   YARD TRIMMINGS. Grass and lawn clippings, tree brush, twigs and branches.
(1967 Code, § 8-56) (Ord. passed 5-11-1992; Ord. passed 2-9-1998)
§ 50.21 AUTHORITY AND POWERS.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized to, by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-220, and
may, at its option, through its legislative body, designate where the following
items generated from residential properties shall be taken for processing or
sale:
      (1)   Cardboard;
      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;
      (3)   Leaves;
      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;
      (5)   Newspapers;
      (6)   Storage batteries;
      (7)   Waste oil;
      (8)   Plastic food and beverage containers; and
      (9)   Scrap metal.
   (B)   In the event that the legislative body exercises its authority, the
legislative body shall give a minimum of 60 days' notice of its intent to
designate where these items from the residential property shall be taken for
processing or sale to all licensed collectors hauling solid waste or such items
of the municipality. At the conclusion of the period, the legislative body
shall cause notice of the designation to appear in a daily newspaper
published in the municipality and shall conduct a public hearing thereon.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works is hereby authorized to enact, from time to
time, by resolution, such regulations as it shall deem in the public interest
regarding separation, collection, recovery, removal and storage or recyclables
and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Mayor shall, and is granted the authority to, designate a person
to be contacted by the DEP with inquiries regarding the recycling program.
   (E)   The Mayor shall, and is granted the authority to, designate a
municipal agent to receive complaints and notices of violations of the
separation requirements set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-220 and this
subchapter.
   (F)   The Board is hereby authorized to add or delete, from time to time,
items on the list of mandatory and optional recyclables so long as the action
is not in conflict with the Connecticut General Statutes and/or Department of
Environmental Protection regulations.
   (G)   The Board is hereby authorized to adopt a fee schedule and a method
for ensuring payment of the fees; for depositing any and all recyclables at any
municipal, or municipally-designated, disposal facility for recyclables.
   (H)   The Board, through resolution, shall adopt rules and regulations, from
time to time, governing any practice and related practices contained in this
subchapter; provided that, the rules and regulations are not inconsistent with
the state general statutes, Department of Environmental Protection regulations
or any provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   The Board is hereby authorized to employ or make contracts with
persons for the separation, collection, transportation, processing and/or
marketing of recyclables as provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-220(g), to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 8-57) (Ord. passed 5-11-1992)
§ 50.22 SEPARATION AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Separation.
      (1)   Each person who generates solid waste from residential property
within the municipality shall separate from other solid waste those items
designated as mandatory recyclables; and
      (2)   Every other person who generates solid waste shall make provision
for the separation from other solid waste of those items designated as
mandatory recyclables.
   (B)   Residential container. The municipality shall provide one recycling
container to each residential property unit, in accordance with the Board's
regulations. The container shall remain the property of the municipality and
remain with the unit through changes in occupancy due to transfer from sale or
rental.
      (1)   Regulations for replacement of recycling containers shall be
established by resolution of the Board.
      (2)   Residents shall use the recycling containers solely for the purpose
of placing the recyclables for collection, and they shall not be used for any
other purpose.
   (C)   Materials. Recyclables should be prepared for collection as follows.
      (1)   Glass food containers, metal food containers, aluminum foil, PET
and HDPE plastic bottles should be washed clean of their contents and placed
inside the collection container.
      (2)   Newspapers, including advertising sections can be either bundled
with string or placed in brown Kraft paper grocery bags and placed on top or
next to the recycling container for collection.
      (3)   Recycling containers shall not be used for other waste. Recyclables
shall not be mixed with other waste.
   (D)   Residential curbside collection. The recycling container shall be
placed for collection purposes within ten feet of the street or curbline or in
such other location as shall be agreed upon by the owner or tenant and the
collector. For curbside collection the container shall be placed at curbside
not earlier than 24 hours before the scheduled time of collection nor later
than 4:00 a.m. on the scheduled collection days and shall be removed from the
street or curbline within 12 hours after the materials therein have been
collected. The containers and any bundles shall be so placed in such a manner
that they do not constitute a travel or health hazard or nuisance of any sort.
Only recyclables generated from residential sources should be placed for
residential curbside collection.
   (E)   Other residential collection. All residents who are not served by a
collector shall arrange to dispose of their recyclables at such drop-off
locations as the Board shall prescribe.
   (F)   Other residential recyclables. All other mandatory recyclables
generated from residential properties and not collected by residential curbside
collection shall be delivered to the drop-off locations as the Board shall
prescribe.
   (G)   Collection, handling and disposal. Collection, handling and disposal
of recyclables within or on behalf of the municipality shall only be carried
out by persons licensed by the municipality and in accordance with all state
and federal laws including, but not limited to, the Public Health Code of the
State of Connecticut as it shall be amended from time to time, and in a manner
as not to pose a hazard or potential hazard to public travel, health or safety
or to become a nuisance of any sort. Any recyclables collected or transported
within the municipality shall be carried in tightly covered containers in or on
such vehicles. Any recyclables which are collected or transported in open top
vehicles shall be suitably covered so as to prevent scattering litter upon the
streets. All vehicles used for collection or transportation of recyclables
within the municipality shall be subject to approval of the Director or the
Board.
   (H)   Reporting by collectors. Any collector who collects recyclables within
the city shall submit annually to the Waste Reduction Coordinator, or other
designated municipal officer, a report of their activities regarding
recyclables collected within the city, in accordance with the rules and
regulations as adopted by the Board from time to time. Forms used for the
report shall be furnished by the city and, upon completion, shall be submitted
to the city.
(1967 Code, § 8-58) (Ord. passed 5-11-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any collector who has reason to believe that a person from whom he collects
solid waste has discarded recyclable items with the solid waste in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter or of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-241b, as
amended, shall promptly notify the municipal agent of the alleged violation.
Upon the request of the municipal agent, a collector shall provide warning
notices, by the placement of tags provided by the municipality, to any person
suspected by the collector or the municipality of violating the separation
requirements of state law or this subchapter. Each collector shall also be
required to assist the municipality in the identification of any person
responsible for creating loads containing significant quantities of items
subject to the separation requirements of state law or this subchapter which
are delivered to a resources recovery facility or solid waste facility by the
collector and detected by the owner or operator of such a facility pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-220(b).
(1967 Code, § 8-59) (Ord. passed 5-11-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
MANDATORY LEAF WASTE COMPOSTING
§ 50.35 PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a program for the mandatory separation of
compostable leaf waste material and yard trimmings from garbage or rubbish by
the residents of the city and the collection of these compostable leaf waste
materials shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent of Waste
Disposal.
(1967 Code, § 8-71) (Ord. passed 9-11-1989; Ord. passed 2-9-1998)
§ 50.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEAF WASTE AND YARD TRIMMINGS COLLECTION DAYS. Four Wednesdays in the month
of November and/or such additional days as may be designated by the
Superintendent of Waste Disposal.
   LEAF WASTE AND YARD TRIMMINGS COLLECTION PERIOD. The month of November and
during such additional times as designated by the Superintendent of Waste
Disposal.
   LEAF WASTE AND YARD TRIMMINGS COMPOSTING SITE. Those areas operated,
maintained or designated by the Superintendent of Waste Disposal for the
purpose of storing and/or disposing of leaf waste material.
   LEAVES. Deciduous and coniferous seasonal deposition.
   PAPER LEAF BAG. A sanitary Kraft paper sack or equal of 30-gallon capacity,
two-ply 50-pound wet strength with decomposing glue and reinforced self-
supporting square bottom closure.
   RESIDENT. All persons or entities who are served by the city for the
collection of solid waste.
   YARD TRIMMINGS. Grass and lawn clippings, tree brush, twigs and branches.
(1967 Code, § 8-72) (Ord. passed 9-11-1989; Ord. passed 2-9-1990)
§ 50.37 SEPARATION OF COMPOSTABLE LEAF WASTE MATERIAL AND YARD TRIMMINGS;
PLACEMENT FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   During the leaf waste and yard trimmings collection period residents
shall place their leaf waste, grass and lawn clippings in the manner prescribed
by the Board of Public Works. Until such time that the Board of Public Works
shall prescribe a manner, residents should place leaf waste and yard trimmings
in leaf bags as defined in §
50.36. These paper bags, or other such manner the Board of Public Works may
prescribe, shall be placed at the curbside on the designated collection days in
a manner assuring access by city employees collecting the leaf waste and yard
trimmings. When using the paper bags, nothing but leaf waste and yard trimmings
shall be placed in these bags.
   (B)   Tree brush, twigs and branches shall be cut and bound in stacks
measuring no more than four feet in length and no more than four inches in
diameter.
   (C)   Compostable leaf waste material shall not be placed in plastic trash
bags during the leaf waste collection period. Leaf waste shall not be placed in
the same refuse container as or otherwise mixed with other forms of solid waste
for collection, removal or disposal during leaf waste collection period.
   (D)   If any resident fails to comply with the requirements of this section,
the Superintendent of Waste Disposal, at his discretion, may refuse to collect
the leaf waste material of the resident, and the resident shall remove from the
curb the leaf waste material.
   (E)   The imposition of penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
city or any person from instituting appropriate legal action or proceeding to
prevent a violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 8-73) (Ord. passed 9-11-1989; Ord. passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see
§
50.99
§ 50.38 OWNERSHIP OF COMPOSTABLE LEAF WASTE MATERIALS.
   Upon placement of compostable leaf waste material for collection by the city
at the curbside, pursuant to this subchapter, the materials shall become the
property of the city. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any
person, other than authorized agents of the city acting in the course of their
employment, to collect or pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any
compostable leaf waste material so placed. Each and every such collection or
pickup in violation hereof from one or more locations shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. The compostable leaf waste material collected by
the city shall be transported to and composted at a designated leaf waste
composting site.
(1967 Code, § 8-74) (Ord. passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provisions of §
50.06 or of any regulation established by the Board of Public Works pursuant
thereto, shall be deemed an act of nuisance and shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to
the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day the violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 8-25)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
50.20 through
50.23 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Upon a first or second offense, the violator shall receive a
written warning.
      (2)   Upon a third offense occurring within a period of one year from the
date of the original offense, the violator shall be subject to a fine as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
      (3)   Upon any subsequent offense occurring within the period of one year
from the date of the original offense, the violator shall be subject to a fine
as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached
to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and, in addition, may be refused recycling and refuse
collection; in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board.
      (4)   In accordance with the authority provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. §
22a-241i, as from time to time amended, any commercial establishment or
commercial collector, as defined in §§
50.20 through
50.23, that is found to have violated the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-
241b(c) shall be subject to a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of §§
50.20 through
50.23 shall be subject to a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 8-60)
   (D)   Any violation of §
50.37 shall be punishable by a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 8-73)
   (E)   Any violation of §
50.38 or any part thereof shall be punishable by a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 8-74) (Ord. passed 9-11-1989; Ord. passed 5-11-1992; Ord. passed
8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Unsanitary deposit of objectionable wastes
   
51.03   Discharge of sewage into natural outlets
   
51.04   Installation of toilet facilities required; connection to sewer system
   
51.05   Use of sewers by dischargers outside city limits
   
51.06   Damage to system unlawful
   
51.07   Inspections; city's right of entry; indemnification of city and company
   
51.08   Board of Public Works to issue licenses
   
51.09   Violations; liability of violator
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.20   Use of private sewer system prohibited; exception
   
51.21   Permit required; application, fee
   
51.22   Inspection by Health Officer prerequisite to effectuation of permit
   
51.23   Systems to comply with state recommendations
   
51.24   Additional requirements
   
51.25   Operation and maintenance
   
51.26   Connection to public sewer required upon availability
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.40   Costs to be borne by owner
   
51.41   Permit required to uncover or open public sewer; licenses
   
51.42   Classes of building sewer permits; application, fee
   
51.43   Contractor's insurance required
   
51.44   Inspection; notification of plumbing inspector
   
51.45   Connections to conform to city requirements
   
51.46   Separate building sewers required
   
51.47   Connection of old building sewer to new building
   
51.48   Design, materials and methods to conform to city regulations
   
51.49   Elevation; lifting
   
51.50   Connection of surface drain systems into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
51.51   Construction in proximity to drinking water supply well
   
51.52   Barricading and lighting of excavations; restoration of public property
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.65   Discharge of certain waters into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
51.66   Systems for discharging unpolluted drainage
   
51.67   Prohibited discharges
   
51.68   Discharge of harmful wastes
   
51.69   Authority of Superintendent regarding industrial or harmful wastes
   
51.70   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.71   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.72   Manholes required
   
51.73   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.74   Permit required for discharge of certain wastes
   
51.75   Special agreements
   
51.76   Industrial discharge monitoring
   
51.77   Emergency notification of dangerous discharge
   
51.78   Written report of accidental discharge
Water Pollution Control
   
51.85   Water pollution control authority designated
   
51.86   Definitions
   
51.87   Purpose of subchapter
   
51.88   Classes of users
   
51.89   City sewer user charge system
   
51.90   Out of city users
   
51.91   Dedicated fund
   
51.92   Collections
   
51.93   Liability of owner
   
51.94   Liens (sewer)
   
51.95   City user appeal procedure
   
51.96   Enforcement
   
51.97   Sewer user bill relief program for certain homeowners age 65 or over or
permanently and totally disabled
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Provisions pertaining to sewers, see Charter §§ 3A-2(h) and (i) and Ch. 11,
Part C
   Special sewer fund, see Charter § 11F-8
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate housing drainage, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148
(c)(7)(A)(vii)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Waterbury acting through any authorized representative.
   CITY ENGINEER. The appointed engineer of the city.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DPW. The sewer operation and maintenance group of the Department of Public
Works.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The appointed Health Officer of the city or his authorized
representative.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
mols per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The appointed Plumbing Inspector of the city or his
authorized representative.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage and approved quantities of industrial wastes.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Waste Treatment of the city or his
authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substance whether gaseous, liquid or solid which when
discharged to the sewer system in sufficient quantities may tend to interfere
with any sewage treatment process to constitute a hazard to human beings or
animals, or to inhibit aquatic life in the receiving waters of the effluent
from the sewage treatment plant.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1967 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.02 UNSANITARY DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1967 Code, § 17-3) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE INTO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 17-4) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 INSTALLATION OF TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may, in
the future, be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(1967 Code, § 17-5) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 USE OF SEWERS BY DISCHARGERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The discharge of sewage, industrial wastes and other wastes generated on or
discharged from real property lying outside the bounds of the city into the
city sewerage system shall be made only with express consent of the city and
upon issuance of a permit setting forth the terms and conditions for the
discharge.
(1967 Code, § 17-6) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 DAMAGE TO SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewerage system.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1967 Code, § 17-7) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 INSPECTIONS; CITY'S RIGHT OF ENTRY; INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY AND
COMPANY.
   (A)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector, the City Engineer, the Superintendent
and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The city shall have no authority to inquire into any processes
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(1967 Code, § 17-8)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.72.
(1967 Code, § 17-9)
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1967 Code, § 17-10) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO ISSUE LICENSES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall issue licenses for steam supply pipes
and public sewers.
(1967 Code, § 10-8)
   (B)   All work for which a license is required by this section shall be
performed by the licensee or his journeyman.
(1967 Code, § 10-7) (Ord. passed 5-22-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
§ 51.09 VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
51.06 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of the violation.
(1967 Code, § 17-2) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.20 USE OF PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1967 Code, § 17-21)
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.04, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 17-22)
(Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Health Officer. The
application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Health Officer. A permit and inspection
fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
(1967 Code, § 17-23) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983; Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed
5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 INSPECTION BY HEALTH OFFICER PREREQUISITE TO EFFECTUATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Health Officer.
He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Health Officer when
the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of the
notice by the Health Officer or his authorized representative.
(1967 Code, § 17-24) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.23 SYSTEMS TO COMPLY WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is unsuitable
in the opinion of the Health Officer. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1967 Code, § 17-25) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city.
(1967 Code, § 17-26) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.25 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1967 Code, § 17-27) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED UPON AVAILABILITY.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to property served by a
private sewage disposal system, connection shall be made to the public sewer
within 90 days, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(1967 Code, § 17-28) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
Charter reference:
   City to make water pipe and sewer connections, see Charter Ch. 11, Part C
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.40 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(1967 Code, § 17-36) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
Charter reference:
   City to make water pipe and sewer connections, see Charter § 3142
§ 51.41 PERMIT REQUIRED TO UNCOVER OR OPEN PUBLIC SEWER; LICENSES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary or storm sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Plumbing
Inspector. Written permits for new industrial connections or new connections
discharging in excess of 5,000 gallons per day of domestic sewage shall be
applied for at least 45 days prior to the proposed connection.
(1967 Code, § 17-37)
   (B)   The City Engineer shall issue licenses for the following:
      (1)   For sewer connections; and
      (2)   For constructing drainage system of buildings.
(1967 Code, § 10-4)
   (C)   All work for which a license is required by this section shall be
performed by the licensee or his journeyman.
(1967 Code, § 10-7)
(Ord. passed 9-7-1983; Ord. passed 5-22-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
§ 51.42 CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, a state-licensed contractor shall make application on a special
form furnished by the city.
   (B)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   A permit, inspection and connection fee for residential, commercial or
industrial building sewer permits shall be as follows:
      (1)   For residential buildings: As set forth for each dwelling unit in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code A dwelling unit is defined as one or more rooms providing
complete living, sleeping and eating facilities for one family, including
bathroom and kitchen facilities. Any residential building(s) requiring an off-
street site connection from a lateral street connection shall pay a fee as set
forth for each dwelling unit in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each lateral street connection plus the fee per dwelling
unit as required by this section;
      (2)   For commercial and industrial buildings: As set forth for each
square foot in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to
the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code; and
      (3)   For hotel, motel and lodging facilities: As set forth for each
sleeping unit in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached
to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 17-38) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983; Ord. passed 10-11-1988; Ord. passed
8-19-2013)
§ 51.43 CONTRACTOR'S INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No permit will be issued to any contractor until he has filed with the city
a certificate of public liability and property damage insurance in amounts
specified by the Corporation Counsel of the city. The insurance shall be
approved by the Director of Finance of the city and the Board of Aldermen as
surety. The insurance shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer
for a period of one year from date of its completion.
(1967 Code, § 17-39) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.44 INSPECTION; NOTIFICATION OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Plumbing
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of receipt of notice
by the Plumbing Inspector. The connection shall be made under the supervision
of the Plumbing Inspector.
(1967 Code, § 17-40) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45 CONNECTIONS TO CONFORM TO CITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight.
   (B)   Any deviation from prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Plumbing Inspector before installation.
(1967 Code, § 17-41) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.46 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except for the following.
   (A)   Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot,
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building provided an acceptable
right-of-way is recorded in the city land records.
   (B)   (1)   Where an industrial complex has provided a sewer system on its
own property to drain several buildings to an interceptor for discharge by
gravity or pumping to the city sewer.
      (2)   This type of building sewer connection shall be approved by the
City Engineer.
(1967 Code, § 17-42) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.47 CONNECTION OF OLD BUILDING SEWER TO NEW BUILDING.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Plumbing Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 17-43) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.48 DESIGN, MATERIALS AND METHODS TO CONFORM TO CITY REGULATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the method to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
(1967 Code, § 17-44) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.49 ELEVATION; LIFTING.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation
satisfactory to the Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to the public
sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(1967 Code, § 17-45) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.50 CONNECTION OF SURFACE DRAIN SYSTEMS INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1967 Code, § 17-46) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.51 CONSTRUCTION IN PROXIMITY TO DRINKING WATER SUPPLY WELL.
   No building sewer shall be constructed within 25 feet of a drinking water
supply well. If a building sewer is constructed within 25 to 75 feet of a
drinking water supply well, it shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable guidelines promulgated by the Commissioner of Environmental
Protection.
(1967 Code, § 17-47) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.52 BARRICADING AND LIGHTING OF EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1967 Code, § 17-48) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.65 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1967 Code, § 17-56) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.66 SYSTEMS FOR DISCHARGING UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the City Engineer. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the City Engineer,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (The existing ordinance,
"An Ordinance to Prohibit and Prevent the Discharge of Oil, Oil Refuse,
Volatile Inflammable Liquid, Gas or Vapor in Any of the Sewers in the City of
Waterbury", shall remain in effect.)
(1967 Code, § 17-57) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.67 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes; to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of the size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1967 Code, § 17-58) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.68 DISCHARGE OF HARMFUL WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, water or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the city that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process
or equipment, cause the treatment facility to violate its NPDES permit on the
receiving water quality standards or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; the installation and
operation of any garbage grinders equipped with a motor of one-half horsepower
or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the City Engineer;
   (D)   Sewage with a concentration of pollutants in excess of the following
limits is prohibited:
Pollutant Concentration in Milligrams per Liter
Pollutant                 Concentration in Milligrams per Liter
Arsenic as As             0.05
Barium as Ba              5.0
Boron as B                5.0
Cyanides as CN (amenable) 0.1
Fluoride as F             20.0
Chromium (Total) as Cr    1.0
Magnesium as Mg           100.0
Manganese as Mn           5.0
Copper as Cu              1.0
Zinc as Zn                1.0
Cadmium as Cd             0.1
Lead as Pb                0.1
Tin as Sn                 2.0
Silver as Ag              0.1
Mercury as Hg             0.01
Nickel as Ni              1.0
Iron as Fe                10.0
Note: Any water or wastes containing an aggregate of more than 15 mg/l of the
above heavy metals shall be discharged to the sewer at a pH between 8.0 and
9.5. All metals are to be measured as total metals.
 
   (E)   Any waters or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to
such a degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the
sewage treatment plant exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Materials which contain or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime residues) or dissolved solids (such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting a
"slug", as defined herein.
   (I)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1967 Code, § 17-59) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.69 AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT REGARDING INDUSTRIAL OR HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to sewers discharging to the sewage treatment plant, contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in §
51.68, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment and adequate equipment necessary to render the
wastes acceptable for discharge to the sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.74.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
Further, a description of new or substantially changed waters or wastes
proposed to be discharged shall be submitted to the Superintendent at least 45
days prior to the initiation of the proposed change.
(1967 Code, § 17-60) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.70 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the owner at his
expense when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that, the
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be ready and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(1967 Code, § 17-61) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.71 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   When preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(1967 Code, § 17-62) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.72 MANHOLES REQUIRED.
   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. An
approved valve or gate shall also be provided in the manhole to prevent the
industrial waste from being discharged into the city sewerage system if it
becomes necessary for the Superintendent to reject this industrial waste in
accordance with §
51.69 of this subchapter. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1967 Code, § 17-63) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.73 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health Association, Inc.,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by the Superintendent with such
assistance as necessary from the industry using customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
(1967 Code, § 17-64) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.74 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-430 as amended, a permit
from the Commissioner of Environmental Protection is required prior to the
initiation of a discharge of any of the following waste waters to a public
sewer:
      (1)   Industrial waste water of any quantity; and
      (2)   Domestic sewage in excess of 5,000 gallons per day through any
individual building sewer to a public sewer.
   (B)   A potential discharger must submit a permit application to the
Department of Environmental Protection not later than 90 days prior to the
anticipated date of initiation of the proposed discharge. A copy of the
application shall also be provided to the City Engineer and the Superintendent.
(1967 Code, § 17-65)
   (C)   (1)   All establishments discharging industrial wastes into the city
sewerage system shall obtain a permit from the city.
      (2)   Acceptable average and peak rates of flow and concentrations of
pollutants shall be as determined by the Superintendent.
      (3)   In no instance shall the flow in any one day exceed 100,000
gallons, and at no time shall the flow rate exceed 200 gallons per minute.
      (4)   All permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed five years.
(1967 Code, § 17-66)
(Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.75 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   With the exception of Department of Environmental Protection's permit
conditions, no statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special written contractual agreement between any industrial
concern and the city, whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
characteristics may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. Any such special agreement must be
authorized and approved by the Waterbury Board of Public Works and the Board of
Aldermen prior to the initiation of sewerage service to the industrial concern.
(1967 Code, § 17-67) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.76 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE MONITORING.
   (A)   All industries discharging into a public sewer shall perform such
monitoring of their discharge as required by the Commissioner in any state
discharge permit issued pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-430, as amended,
including, but not limited to, installation, use and maintenance of monitoring
equipment, keeping records and reporting the results to the Commissioner.
   (B)   The records shall be made available upon request of the Commissioner
or the Superintendent.
(1967 Code, § 17-68) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
§ 51.77 EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION OF DANGEROUS DISCHARGE.
   (A)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the discharger's bulletin
board or other prominent place advising its employees to call both the
Superintendent of Sewage Works and Streets and Sewers in the event of a
dangerous discharge.
   (B)   Employers shall ensure that all employees are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(1967 Code, § 17-69) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.78 WRITTEN REPORT OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Within five days following an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or a slug discharge, the discharger shall submit to the
Superintendent of the Sewage Works and the Commissioner, a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the discharger to prevent similar future occurrences.
   (B)   The notification shall not relieve the discharger of any expense,
loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to
the sewers, treatment facilities, fish kills, aquatic plants or any other
damage to persons or property; nor shall the notification relieve the
discharger of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be
imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
(1967 Code, § 17-70) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983)
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
§ 51.85 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL AUTHORITY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-246, the Board of Commissioners of Public
Works of the City of Waterbury is hereby designated as the Water Pollution
Control Authority of the City of Waterbury, with all the powers set forth in
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-246.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.86 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, the meaning of terms used in
this subchapter shall be as defined in §
51.01, as amended.
   CITY USERS. All owners of record of properties within the city connected to
the city's sewerage system, including without limitation municipally-owned and
other tax-exempt properties.
   OUT OF CITY USER. Towns, cities or districts located outside of the city
connected to the city's sewerage system, but shall not include individual
dwellings, establishments or facilities.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.87 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes charges for connection with and the use of the
city's sewerage system in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-255 et seq.
This subchapter shall apply, without exception, to all city properties and to
all out of city users. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Water Pollution
Control Authority of the city (hereinafter the "W.P.C.A.") shall oversee the
administration and implementation of this subchapter. The City's Bureau of
Waste Disposal (hereinafter the "Bureau") shall be responsible for the daily
administration and implementation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.88 CLASSES OF USERS.
   There shall be three classes of sewer users. These are:
   (A)   Class A - Residential User. Any user whose waste discharge is composed
exclusively of domestic wastes and who does not appear in any other class;
   (B)   Class B - Non-Municipal Tax Exempt User. A user which pays no ad
valorem taxes, or receives substantial credits in paying such taxes, including,
but not limited to, users exempt from ad valorem taxes and all federal, state
and local governmental users, but excluding publicly-owned facilities
performing local municipal governmental functions which discharge only sanitary
sewage; and
   (C)   Class C - Commercial/Industrial User. Any user identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1987, as amended, prepared by the
U.S. Government Printing Office.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.89 CITY SEWER USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   This section shall apply exclusively to city users. There shall be
three components to the sewer user charge system:
      (1)   Sewer user charge;
      (2)   Sewer user surcharge; and
      (3)   Capital recovery charge.
   (B)   The sewer user charge, sewer user surcharge and capital recovery
charge shall be established and revised by the W.P.C.A. in accordance with
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-255.
      (1)   Sewer user charge. The W.P.C.A. finds that the water consumption
method is to be used for establishing a fair and reasonable charge for the use
of the city's sewerage system. This method utilizes water consumption as the
basis for calculating the volume of sewage discharged into the sewerage system,
and a corresponding sewer user charge.
         (a)   Water consumption computation. Water consumption on each
property connected to the city's sewerage system shall be determined by
metering the supply of water to the property, where metered water supplies are
used, or by estimating water consumption where water metering is not used, in
accordance with division (B)(1)(a)1. below of this section.
            1.   Computation of water consumption from meter readings.
               a.   Water consumption of each property serviced by the city
water department shall be computed in accordance with meter readings obtained
from the city water department by the Bureau.
               b.   Water consumption of each property serviced by water
utilities other than the city shall be computed as provided below. Pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-246 and 7-255, the W.P.C.A. is authorized to obtain from
the Connecticut Water Company, 250 Meadow Street, Naugatuck, Connecticut 06770,
its successors and assigns, and any other water utility providing water service
to residents of the city, all records required by the Bureau to determine the
consumption of water by customers of such utilities.
            2.   Computation of water consumption for non-metered properties
and properties for which meter readings are not available. Water consumption of
each property for which records of water consumption are not available shall be
estimated by the Bureau or its designated agents, servants or employees, on the
basis of records the Bureau has of water consumption of similar properties and
uses. In order to expedite the estimate, the Bureau may require the owner of
any such property to submit a sworn statement declaring its water consumption
for the reporting period, the statement to be supported by any available
records or other evidence of water consumption acceptable to the Bureau. The
Bureau may also require the owner of any city property that is not metered, to
install and maintain a water meter at the sole expense of the owner. Meters
must be properly maintained and calibrated and be accessible to the Bureau or
its designated agents, servants or employees.
         (b)   Volume of sewage discharged. Except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter, a user's sewage discharge shall equal that user's water
consumption.
         (c)   Sewer user charge calculation. Each city user shall be charged a
sewer user charge based upon its volume of sewage discharged into the city's
sewerage system. Each sewer user charge shall include the costs for wastewater
collection and treatment system operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement. Each city user's share of the costs shall be in proportion to the
user's contribution to the total volume of sewage discharged to the city's
sewerage system.
         (d)   Reduction of charges in certain cases. In any instance in which
the Bureau determines that the water consumption of any particular city user is
greatly disproportionate to the effluent actually discharged from the user's
property into the sewerage system, and therefore determines that, if its sewer
user charge was computed solely based upon its volume of sewage discharged (as
defined in (B)(1)(b) above of this subchapter), the user in question would
actually bear more than its proportionate share of the operation, maintenance
and equipment replacement costs of the sewerage system, the Bureau may make any
appropriate reduction in the user's water consumption, thereby reducing the
user's sewer user charge.
      (2)   Sewer user surcharge.
         (a)   Applicability. Properties which discharge pollutant strengths in
excess of 300 mg/l of five-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) and/or in
excess of 300 mg/l of suspended solids (SS) and/or in excess of 50 mg/l of
nitrogen are subject to a sewer user surcharge.
         (b)   Calculation. The sewer user surcharge shall consist of and be
calculated as follows;
            1.   BOD5 charge: $  *  per pound of BOD5, for that concentration
of BOD5 exceeding 300 mg/l;
            2.   Suspended solids charge: $  *  per pound of suspended solids
for that concentration exceeding 300 mg/l; and
            3.   Nitrogen removal charge: $  *  per pound of NH4-N for that
concentration exceeding 50 mg/l.
(* The per pound BOD5, charge, suspended solids charge and nitrogen removal
charge shall be established and revised by the W.P.C.A. in accordance with
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-255.)
         (c)   Strength of sewage discharge. A city user's volume of sewage
discharge shall be computed in accordance with division (B)(1) above. Strength
of that sewage discharge shall be based either on:
            1.   Testing performed by the State DEP;
            2.   Information acceptable to the Bureau furnished by the user or
an independent test laboratory; or
            3.   Testing performed by the Bureau or its designated agents,
servants or employees.
         (d)   Access. All sewage discharges are subject to review and
inspection by the Bureau. The Bureau shall have the right to gain access to the
waste stream and take its own samples. Should the Bureau do so and should the
results be substantially different from the data submitted by the user, as
determined by the Bureau, the sewer user surcharge for that user shall be
revised for the next billing cycle period.
         (e)   Certification statement. Each non-municipal tax exempt user
(Class B) and each commercial/industrial user (Class C) shall file with the
Bureau or its authorized agent, a certification statement setting forth therein
the users's identity and other information pertinent to calculating that user's
sewer user surcharge, in a form provided by and acceptable to the Bureau. The
frequency at which this form must be filed shall be determined by the Bureau.
At a minimum, the certification statement shall be submitted annually.
         (f)   Failure to file certification statement. The penalty for a
user's failure to file its certification statement, as required by this
subchapter, shall be $250 for each such failure to file. If a user fails to
file its certification statement, the Bureau shall estimate the delinquent
user's sewer user surcharge.
      (3)   Capital recovery charge. All city users shall be charged a capital
recovery charge to recover the annual debt service costs associated with
sewerage system improvements. The capital recovery charge will be assessed to
each city user based upon the volume of sewage the city user discharged into
the city's sewerage system in the previous fiscal year, computed in accordance
with division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.90 OUT OF CITY USERS.
   (A)   This section shall apply exclusively to out of city users.
   (B)   Each out of city user shall be charged a sewer user charge, sewer user
surcharge and capital recovery charge based upon an executed written agreement
between the city and the out of city user, which establishes fair and
reasonable charges for the use of the city's sewerage system.
   (C)   All existing and future sewerage system use contracts and/or
agreements between the city and out of city sewerage system users shall be in
conformance with this subchapter and applicable federal and state laws and
regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.91 DEDICATED FUND.
   A sewer fund (the "City of Waterbury Sewer Treatment Enterprise Fund") is
established which shall be maintained separate and distinct from any other fund
of the city. All revenues from operation of the sewerage system shall accrue,
and all receipts therefrom, and from nonrevenue sources in connection with the
sewerage system, shall be paid into the fund. All direct and indirect costs of
operation, maintenance, equipment replacement and capital improvements
(including debt service) shall be paid therefrom under appropriations in
accordance with the City Charter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.92 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   City user billing. The sewer user charge, sewer user surcharge and
capital recovery charge (hereinafter collectively referred to as “sewer user
bill”) will be invoiced to the property owner of record. The city user shall be
charged for the use of the city’s sewerage system beginning in the next billing
period following connection to the city’s sewerage system. The minimum annual
sewer user bill to each city user as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code to cover administrative costs, even where connection to the
city’s sewerage system is for a period of less than one year. The frequency of
billing shall be not more than once per month nor less than once per year. The
Bureau shall re-evaluate any and all data and certification statements
submitted to it by the city user pursuant to this subchapter, re-evaluate the
Bureau’s own data, and/or require or develop additional data as it deems
necessary. The Bureau shall subsequently bill the user for any deficiency
indicated as due thereafter. The transmittal of any sewer user bill to a city
user shall not stop the Bureau from billing for any deficiency determined to
exist due to any subsequent re-evaluation.
   (B)   Payment of sewer user bill. Sewer user bills shall be due and payable
within one month of the date of issue. The W.P.C.A. is empowered to permit an
extension of the due date of up to 30 days. One and one-half percent interest
per month shall be added to all bills unpaid after the expiration of the
extension of until payment is received. Sewer user bills shall be collected by
the Bureau or designated agent and deposited in a special account, designated
the “City of Waterbury Sewer Treatment Enterprise Fund”, separate from other
city funds, and used solely to operate and maintain the sewerage system, pay
debt service costs for the sewerage system and for any other use required and/
or permitted by law.
   (C)   Shut off for nonpayment. The Bureau reserves the right to shut off the
water to property serviced by the City Water Department, to the extent
allowable under federal and state laws and regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 51.93 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of record of the property on which a building is located shall be
liable for the payment of sewer user bills.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.94 LIENS (SEWER).
   (A)   General rule. The rates or charges regarding the connection with or
for the use of the sewerage system of the city, established pursuant to the
general statutes pertaining to municipal sewerage systems, if not paid when
due, shall constitute a lien upon the premises served and a charge against the
owners thereof, which lien and charge shall bear interest at the same rate as
would unpaid taxes. The rates or charges shall be collectible as part of the
city user's sewer user bill.
   (B)   Delinquent payments. Payments shall be considered delinquent if not
paid within 30 days of the date of issuance of the charge.
   (C)   Continuation of lien. Such a lien may continue for the period of time
set forth in the general statutes pertaining to the continuation, recording and
release of property tax liens and when so continued shall be valid for 15
years. The liens shall take precedence over all other liens or encumbrances
except taxes and may be foreclosed against the lot or building served in the
same manner as a lien for taxes.
   (D)   Assignment of sewer liens. As permitted by the general statutes the
city, by resolution of the Board of Aldermen, may assign, for consideration,
any and all liens filed by the Superintendent of Water Pollution Control or Tax
Collector to secure unpaid sewerage charges as provided under by the general
statutes. The consideration received by the city shall be negotiated between
the city and the assignee. The assignee or assignees of the liens shall have
and possess the same powers and rights at law or in equity as such city and the
City Tax Collector would have had if the lien had not been assigned with regard
to the precedence and priority of the lien, the accrual of interest and the
fees and expenses of collection. The assignee shall have the same rights to
enforce such liens as any private party holding a lien on real property,
including, but not limited to, foreclosure and a suit on the debt. Costs and
reasonable attorneys' fees, as may be permitted by the general statutes and/or
may be ordered by a court, incurred by the assignee as a result of any
foreclosure action or other legal proceeding brought pursuant to the general
statutes and directly related to the proceeding shall be taxed in any such
proceeding against each person having title to any property subject to the
proceedings. The costs and fees, if allowable, may be collected by the assignee
at any time after demand for payment has been made by the assignee.
   (E)   Civil action authorized. As permitted by the general statutes, the
amount of any such rate or charge which remains due and unpaid for 30 days may,
with reasonable attorneys' fees, be recovered by the W.P.C.A. in a civil action
in the name of the city against the owners. The city shall be subject to the
same rates or charges under the same conditions as other users of such sewerage
system. Each addition of interest shall be collectible as a part of such
connection or user charge. Any such unpaid connection or use charge shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate against which the charge was levied from
the date it became delinquent.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999; Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 51.95 CITY USER APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the event that any city user subject to this subchapter wishes to
be heard regarding its sewer user bill, the user shall make a detailed written
request, within two years from the date of issuance of the sewer user bill, to
the W.P.C.A. to be heard by the W.P.C.A., specifying the reasons therefor.
Interest shall be tolled during the appeal until such time as a final
determination by the W.P.C.A. is rendered. In the event the city user's appeal
is denied, tolled interest shall be reinstated and due and payable in
accordance with the W.P.C.A.'s decision.
   (B)   The W.P.C.A. may answer the request in writing and/or schedule a
meeting to hear and consider the user's appeal. The W.P.C.A. shall attempt to
resolve any bona fide claims, disputes or inquiries which the user may have.
All determinations made by the W.P.C.A. shall be put in writing and copy
thereof transmitted to the user and shall be final.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any final action of the W.P.C.A. may appeal to
the Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury as provided by Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 7-255.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.96 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Bureau and W.P.C.A. may take such action as is allowed by the state
general statutes, and ordinances and regulations of the city, to recover all
such sums due it hereunder, restrain any unlawful discharge and otherwise
compel compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.97 SEWER USER BILL RELIEF PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN HOMEOWNERS AGE 65 OR OVER OR
PERMANENTLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED.
   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-255, the city hereby provides for optional
methods of payment of a city user's sewer user bill to the W.P.C.A. by:
   (A)   Elderly taxpayers who are eligible for tax relief under the provisions
of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 12-129b and 12-170aa or a plan of tax relief for elderly
taxpayers provided by the city in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129n;
or
   (B)   Any taxpayer under the age of 65 who is eligible for tax relief under
the provisions of a plan for tax relief provided by the city in accordance with
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129n(2).
(Ord. passed 9-20-1999)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.09(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties
and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 17-2) (Ord. passed 9-7-1983; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Sprinkling
   
52.02   Licenses to be issued by Board of Public Works
Hydrants
   
52.15   Inspection of hydrants
   
52.16   Reports
   
52.17   Duty of Board of Public Works pertaining to fire protection
   
52.18   Fastening of ropes or the like to hydrants prohibited
   
52.19   Obstructing hydrants prohibited
   
52.20   Injury to hydrants prohibited
   
52.21   Unlawful opening of hydrants; wasting water
   
52.22   Connections to private sprinkler systems
Charter reference:
   Water fund, see Charter § 11F-6
   Water police, see Charter § 4-9
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 SPRINKLING.
   (A)   There shall be no lawn and garden sprinkling nor the use of any
stationary watering device between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   During periods of drought or water supply emergency this use of water
shall be eliminated completely.
(1967 Code, § 20-10) (Ord. passed 7-8-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 LICENSES TO BE ISSUED BY BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall issue licenses for connections with
gas mains and water mains.
(1967 Code, § 10-8)
   (B)   All work for which a license is required by this section shall be
performed by the licensee or his journeyman.
(1967 Code, § 10-7)
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
HYDRANTS
§ 52.15 INSPECTION OF HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause all
public hydrants to be inspected twice between April 1 and November 1.
   (B)   Hydrants shall be inspected every six weeks between November 1 and
April 1.
(1967 Code, § 20-1)
§ 52.16 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall report from time to time to the Board
of Aldermen, whenever in the opinion of the Board, any new public hydrant or
reservoir is needed by the city for protection against fire.
(1967 Code, § 20-2)
   (B)   Reports of the inspections provided for in division (A) above shall be
made to the Board of Public Works and the Chief of the Fire Department
immediately, setting forth the results of the inspection and these reports
shall be kept on file and open for examination at any time.
(1967 Code, § 20-3)
§ 52.17 DUTY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS PERTAINING TO FIRE PROTECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works to see that all the public
hydrants, wells and reservoirs are kept, at all times, in good condition and
repair, and ready for use in case of fire, and to report to the Board of
Aldermen any deficiency in the supply of water to any public hydrant.
(1967 Code, § 20-4)
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
§ 52.18 FASTENING OF ROPES OR THE LIKE TO HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fasten any guy, rope, brace, support or fastening of any
kind to any public hydrant.
(1967 Code, § 20-5)
§ 52.19 OBSTRUCTING HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cover up or encumber any public hydrant, by placing on
or about it any snow, ice, sleet, rubbish, building materials, but a sufficient
space shall be left about every such hydrant to allow free access for fire
engines and hose carriages.
(1967 Code, § 20-6)
   (B)   No person shall permit any vehicle, or any obstruction, to remain in
front of or within a distance of ten feet of any public hydrant.
(1967 Code, § 13-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.20 INJURY TO HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully break or injure or cause to be broken or injured
any fire hydrant.
(1967 Code, § 20-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.21 UNLAWFUL OPENING OF HYDRANTS; WASTING WATER.
   No person shall open any fire hydrant except for some use by the Fire
Department and under the direction of some proper officer of the Fire
Department, or by special permission of the Board of Public Works or
Superintendent of Water. No person shall wilfully and maliciously leave the
water of any public hydrant running to waste.
(1967 Code, § 20-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 CONNECTIONS TO PRIVATE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All connections from city mains to fire systems on private property
shall be provided with a gate valve and check valve to be installed either in
the building accessible to inspection and repair or in a manhole of sufficient
size to permit convenient access for inspection and repair.
   (B)   A bypass shall be connected around that gate valve which is installed
on private property and shall be provided with a valve and meter.
   (C)   All material and labor shall be furnished by the owner of the property
at his own expense.
   (D)   Construction, location and installation of all connections herein
provided for shall be subject to the approval of the Bureau of Water.
(1967 Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Purpose/intent
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Compatibility with other regulations
   
53.05   Responsibility for administration
   
53.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
53.07   Discharge and connection prohibitions
   
53.08   Suspension of MS4 access
   
53.09   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.10   Monitoring of discharges
   
53.11   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.12   Watercourse protection
   
53.13   Notification of spills
   
53.14   Violations
   
53.15   Enforcement
   
53.16   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.17   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
53.18   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
53.19   Injunctive relief
   
53.20   Compensatory action
   
53.21   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
53.22   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE/INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City of Waterbury through the regulation
of non-storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum
extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit and eliminate illicit connections and discharges to the
municipal separate storm sewer system;
   (C)   Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills,
inappropriate dumping or disposal, to these storm sewer systems;
   (D)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (E)   To ensure compliance with the city's Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) Permit.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this chapter, which occurs
by chance, and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The City of Waterbury Department of Public
Works (hereinafter "Public Works Department"), and/or its employees or
designees.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, practices (and
prohibitions of practices), structures, vegetation, maintenance procedures, and
other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the state consistent with state, federal or other equivalent and
technically supported guidance. BMPs also include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from material storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any activity associated with construction at a site
including, but not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavation, and
dewatering.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department.
   DIRECTOR. The City of Waterbury Director of Public Works or his/her
authorized designee.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
53.07.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system; and
      (2)   Any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or any
drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the
storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(l4).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA") (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §
1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general
area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Waters consisting of rainfall runoff, including snow or ice
melt, during a rain event.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water,
either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water. This
includes but is not limited to lakes, ponds, rivers, streams or any other
surface water defined as a watercourse by the city's Inland Wetland
regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the Department.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.04 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different than those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Works Department shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
Department may be delegated in writing by the Director to persons or entities
acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.07 DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or any watercourse any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or floating drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flow,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated-typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the Department as being
necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a written
notification to the Department prior to the time of the test; or
      (4)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.08 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Public Works Department may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the Department may take such steps as deemed necessary
to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
Department will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4
access. The violator may petition the Department for a reconsideration and
hearing.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
Department.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.09 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Public Works Department prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.10 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The Public Works Department shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the Department.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Public Works Department ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The Public Works Department shall have the right to set up on any
facility subject to this section such devices as are necessary in the opinion
of the Department to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm
water discharge.
      (4)   The Public Works Department has the right to require the discharger
to install monitoring equipment as necessary in the opinion of the Department.
The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own
expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Public Works Department and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delay in allowing the Public Works Department access
to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the Department reasonable access to the permitted facility
for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
chapter.
      (7)   If the Public Works Department has been refused access to any part
of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the Department may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.11 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The Public Works Department will adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.12 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.13 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or any waters of the U.S.,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the Department in
person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the Public Works Department within three business days
of the in-person or phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the
discharge or spill and shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three years. Failure to provide notification of a
release as provided above is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   lt shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person who has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter may be subject
to the enforcement actions outlined in §
53.15 or may be restrained by injunction or the violation may otherwise be
abated in a manner provided by law.
   (B)   In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public
health or public safety, the Director, or his/her designee, is authorized to
enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take
any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property. The Director is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined
in §
53.18.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever the Public Works Department finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the Department may
order compliance by written Notice of Violation to the responsible person.
   (A)   The Notice of Violation shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action. It is not the responsibility of the city to formulate or
design any remedial systems;
      (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the Notice of Violation is directed;
      (6)   A statement that any citation issued may be appealed to the city by
filing a written notice of appeal within ten days from the date ofreceipt of
the written Notice of Violation;
      (7)   A statement that if no notice of appeal is received within ten
days, an assessment and judgment may be entered; and
      (8)   A statement that such judgment may be issued without further
notice.
   (B)   Such notice may require, without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine or penalty, in addition to any sums necessary to
recoup costs incurred by the Public Works Department;
      (6)   Suspension of any discharge to the MS4 consistent with §
53.08; and
      (7)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (C)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed.
   (D)   Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by
a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall
be charged to the violator.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.16 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the
determination of the Department. The notice of appeal must be received within
ten days from the date of the Notice of Violation.
   (B)   Hearing on the appeal before a citation hearing officer shall take
place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the citation hearing officer shall be final.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.17 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the Notice of Violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
Department, then representatives of the Department shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for
the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.18 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within 30 days. If the amount due is not paid in a timely manner
as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. In the discretion of the
Department, the liability may be paid in not more than 12 equal payments.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.19 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the Department may
petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.20 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the Department may impose upon a violator alternative
compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance
workshops, watershed cleanup, or other related activities.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.21 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.22 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the Department to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter
shall be subject to a penalty of $100 per violation per day.
   (B)   The Department may recover all attorneys' fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Parking prohibited during snow emergency
   
70.03   Truck parking
   
70.04   Applicability of standing or parking regulations
Parking Meters
   
70.15   Deposit of coin required
   
70.16   Purchase and use of meter covers
   
70.17   Use of slugs; overtime parking
   
70.18   Tampering with parking meters
   
70.19   Collection and disposition of proceeds
Handicapped Parking
   
70.30   Purpose
   
70.31   Statutory authorization
   
70.32   Identity of violator
   
70.33   Fines to be deposited in general fund
   
70.34   Parking lots to comply with regulations
Fire Zones
   
70.45   Definition
   
70.46   Establishment of fire zones; appeal of designation
   
70.47   Erection and cost of signs, markings and the like
   
70.48   Parking in zone prohibited
   
70.49   Removal of vehicles from zone
   
70.50   Fines for parking in zone
Penalties Generally
   
70.55   Penalties for violating parking regulations
Enforcement
   
70.60   Parking violations
   
70.61   Payment of bail
   
70.62   Presumption created
   
70.63   Parking violation appeals
   
70.64   Denial of registration renewal
   
70.65   Removal or immobilization of motor vehicles bearing outstanding tickets
   
70.66   Records to be kept by the Traffic Authority
   
70.67   Implementation of provisions
   
70.68   Compliance with regulations required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Authority of Board of Aldermen to regulate the speed of vehicles on the
streets, see Charter § 3A-2(i)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to make rules for traffic regulation, see Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 7-148(c)(7)(B)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. The person operating or in control of a vehicle on a public
highway.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a highway,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
receiving or discharging passengers or loading or unloading merchandise or in
obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   PARKING METER. A mechanical device for measuring time limits for parking
vehicles, which device consists of a standard, upon which a case is set
containing a timing mechanism and signal indicating legal parking, and which
will indicate clearly the time to elapse until the period expires during which
parking is permitted in the parking meter space which the parking meter
controls. The signal shall also indicate when the time for legal parking has
expired in that space.
   PARKING METER SPACES. The space beside which is located a parking meter
within which space a vehicle may be properly parked.
   TRAFFIC AUTHORITY. In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-297(6), the
Board of Police Commissioners shall serve as the Traffic Authority for the
city, thereby having authority over and control of traffic and parking on the
public highways of the city.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a public highway.
(1967 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 70.02 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of facilitating the plowing and removal of snow and
ice, or to prevent the obstruction of traffic in time of snowfall or other
emergency upon the public streets and highways of the city, or whenever there
shall be a snowfall of five inches or more, or because of the icy condition of
such public streets, or because of any other emergency existing thereon public
safety requires the temporary suspension of parking regulations or the
prohibition or restriction of movement of vehicles within the whole or any
portion of any street or highway of the city, traffic and parking shall be
prohibited or restricted within the portion or the whole of any street or
highway of the city for the period of time as public necessity, convenience and
safety requires, or for such period of time as the street and highway condition
continues, or for such period of time as the emergency on the street and
highway exists as may be designated.
   (B)   Notice of the prohibition, restriction or emergency shall be given
whenever practicable, at least one hour in advance of the time the regulation
becomes effective either by causing to be placed suitable signs indicating that
parking is prohibited or by closing off streets, or by publishing in a
newspaper published daily in the city, or by broadcast through all the radio
stations located in the city.
   (C)   Any snowfall of five inches or more shall, in itself, be deemed
sufficient notice that any parking will obstruct traffic or the removal of snow
upon a public street or highway and is prohibited.
(1967 Code, § 11-6)
§ 70.03 TRUCK PARKING.
   In order to prevent vehicles with load-carrying capacities in excess of one
ton from constituting a traffic hazard in residential areas and to prevent
unnecessary noises that may disturb the peace and quiet of area residents and
to prevent the blocking of access to residences by such services as police,
fire or ambulance, no person having custody or control of a vehicle or vehicles
with load-carrying capacities in excess of one ton shall be permitted to park
on any street in any residential zone of the city at any time of day or night,
except when in the conduct of a service being simultaneously performed.
(1967 Code, § 11-10) (Ord. passed 11-1-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 APPLICABILITY OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
PARKING METERS
§ 70.15 DEPOSIT OF COIN REQUIRED.
   If the Traffic Authority shall, at any time, provide for the installation of
parking meters requiring the deposit or insertion of a coin, or the turning of
a key, handle or other device, or requiring any other act or action to be
performed by the operator of a vehicle using the parking meter space controlled
by a particular parking meter to set the parking meter in operation so that the
time limit for legal parking may be indicated, the failure of the operator to
insert a proper coin or coins or to turn the key, handle or other device, or to
perform such other act or action as may be so required shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PURCHASE AND USE OF METER COVERS.
   In the event any work is done next to a parking meter so that the parking
meter is inoperative for the parking of a motor vehicle at that space reserved
for parking, then the person who is doing the work shall purchase from the
Parking Meter Department a cover at the cost set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The charge set forth in the annual budget shall be for each
cover for each day the meter is covered while the work progresses and the
covers shall be removed immediately at the completion of the work.
(1967 Code, § 11-2.1) (Ord. passed 3-15-1971; Ord. passed 11-22-1982; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013)
§ 70.17 USE OF SLUGS; OVERTIME PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited in
any parking meter any slug, device or substitute for a proper coin of the
United States, or to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter
additional proper coins of the United States for the purpose of increasing or
extending the legal parking time which has been established by the Traffic
Authority for the parking meter space adjacent to which the parking meter is
placed.
(1967 Code, § 11-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 TAMPERING WITH PARKING METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not so authorized to deface, damage,
tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any
parking meter installed under the direction of the Traffic Authority or to aid
or abet in doing the same.
(1967 Code, § 11-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   All coins deposited in parking meters and all fees or penalties received
under §§
70.60 and
70.61 shall be collected by the Police Department in such manner and under such
rules as the Traffic Authority may prescribe.
(1967 Code, § 11-5)
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 70.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
70.30 through
70.33 is to provide for the availability of reserved parking spaces to
handicapped individuals and for sanctions for violations involving misuse of
the reserved parking spaces.
(1967 Code, § 11-17) (Ord. passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.31 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Handicapped parking privileges shall be allowed in the city to all
handicapped persons pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 51-56a(b)
and 14-253a with the exception of violation provisions which will be in
accordance with the penalties imposed in §
70.99.
(1967 Code, § 11-18) (Ord. passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.32 IDENTITY OF VIOLATOR.
   Whenever there occurs a violation of these handicapped parking provisions,
proof of the registration number of any motor vehicle therein concerned shall
be prima facie evidence that the owner was the operator thereof, except in the
case of a leased or rented motor vehicle where the proof shall be prima facie
evidence that the lessee was the operator thereof.
(1967 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.33 FINES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   All funds recovered by the Police Department due to violations of these
provisions shall be segregated from other parking violation monies and
deposited into the general fund of the city.
(1967 Code, § 11-21) (Ord. passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.34 PARKING LOTS TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All owners of parking lots having 20 or more parking spaces shall
register with the office for persons with disabilities. All such parking lots
shall certify that they are in compliance with federal and state statutes
regarding handicapped parking.
   (B)   The city shall ensure all such lots comply with all relevant state
statutes and regulations regarding handicapped parking. All spaces for
handicapped drivers shall be clearly marked with aboveground signs conforming
to state regulations.
(1967 Code, § 11-22(a), (b)) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
FIRE ZONES
§ 70.45 DEFINITION.
   A fire zone is a designated unobstructed passageway sufficient in size to
permit free passage of fire and other emergency equipment from a public highway
to all necessary areas or portions of any private or public property.
(1967 Code, § 7-58) (Ord. passed 10-4-1973)
§ 70.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE ZONES; APPEAL OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   In order to adopt regulations concerning fire hazards as provided for
in Charter § 3A-2(g), it is hereby made the duty of the Fire Marshal and his
agents to inquire into and investigate the parking of motor vehicles of all
kinds in private driveways and alleyways and other open spaces in close
proximity to buildings where parking endangers the safety and welfare of
persons in and about the areas and which in any way constitutes a fire hazard
within the meaning and intent of the language of the Charter sections and to
designate parking in such areas a fire hazard and have the areas posted as a
fire zone.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall establish the fire zone by written order and
shall file one copy with the City Clerk, one copy with the Board of Police
Commissioners and one copy shall be sent by certified mail to the owner or
owners, or agents thereof, of any private land on which the fire zone is
established.
(1967 Code, § 7-59)
   (C)   Any private property owner aggrieved by the designation of a fire zone
on his property may file with the City Clerk, within 30 days after he received
notice of the Fire Marshal's order, written notice of appeal, setting forth
therein reasons of aggrievement. After hearing, the Board of Police
Commissioners may affirm, modify or rescind the order.
(1967 Code, § 7-60)
(Ord. passed 10-4-1973)
§ 70.47 ERECTION AND COST OF SIGNS, MARKINGS AND THE LIKE.
   Upon establishment of a fire zone, the Board of Police Commissioners shall
cause to be erected or installed adequate signs, markings and other devices to
delineate the fire zone. Signs, markings and other devices erected or installed
on privately-owned premises shall be at the cost of the owner and may be billed
for and collected in the same manner as municipal taxes; provided that, the
Board of Police Commissioners causes a notice of lien to be filed on the land
records within 60 days after the erection or installation.
(1967 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. passed 10-4-1973)
§ 70.48 PARKING IN ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, or permit to stand, a motor vehicle in a fire zone
which has been established in accordance with this subchapter, except when
actually picking up or discharging passengers.
(1967 Code, § 7-62) (Ord. passed 10-4-1973) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM ZONE.
   Any motor vehicle found standing in a fire zone which has been established
in accordance with this subchapter may be towed, upon the direction of a police
officer, to a public or private parking facility and all expense of the towing
and any subsequent storage shall be borne by the registered owner of the
vehicle.
(1967 Code, § 7-63) (Ord. passed 10-4-1973)
§ 70.50 FINES FOR PARKING IN ZONE.
   Whenever a vehicle is found standing in violation of §
70.48, a police officer shall serve upon the owner or operator of the vehicle,
or place upon the vehicle, a notice (tag) directing the owner or operator
thereof to either appear in person and pay the amount as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code or mail a check or money order for the sum to the Police
Department, within 48 hours subsequent to the issuance of the notice or pay the
amount as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code in the above manner after the expiration of 48 hours. When
the appropriate payment is made, it shall act as a bar to prosecution for
violation of §
70.48.
(1967 Code, § 7-64) (Ord. passed 10-4-1973; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
PENALTIES GENERALLY
§ 70.55 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATING PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Penalties shall be levied as follows against the registered
owners of motor vehicles found in violation of parking regulations:
         (a)   Group I: The penalty for violation of Group I shall be as set
forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code:
            1.   Overtime parking;
            2.   Occupying more than one space;
            3.   Parking more than 12 inches from curb; and
            4.   Parking on wrong side of road.
         (b)   Group II: The penalty for violation of Group II shall be as set
forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code:
            1.   Double parking;
            2.   Restricted parking area;
            3.   Obstructing bus stand;
            4.   Within ten feet of fire hydrant;
            5.   Parking within 25 feet of corner;
            6.   Truck parking in residential zone;
            7.   Parking at loading zone;
            8.   Obstructing crosswalk;
            9.   Obstructing mail drops;
            10.   Obstructing view of stop sign; and
            11.   Fire lane.
         (c)   Group III: The penalty for violation of Group III shall be as
set forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to
the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code:
            1.   Handicapped parking; and
            2.   Parking during a snow emergency.
      (2)   If voluntary appearance and payment are made within the specified
period of 14-calendar days at the Office of the Tax Collector of the city, or
if payment is made by use of the postal system within that period, acceptance
of the payment by the city shall constitute waiver of the right to further
prosecution for each violation.
      (3)   Any person wishing to contest a violation of this section may
request and file an application for appeal as allowed under §
70.63 of this code, at the Office of the Tax Collector or the Police Department
of the city, during the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday,
within 14 calendar days of the time indicated on the notice of violation of
parking regulation.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from prosecuting and
levying fines up to the maximum provided in state statutes for violation of
traffic regulations or pursuing lawful civil remedies whenever the requirements
of this section are not fully complied with.
   (B)   In the event the penalties set forth herein are not paid in full
within 14 calendar days following the date of the violation, the penalty shall
double.
   (C)   On or about May 1 of each year, the Finance Director shall provide the
Board of Aldermen with a complete list of those persons owing parking penalties
to the city.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.60 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any vehicle shall be found parking in any parking meter space
overtime and beyond the period of legal parking time established for such place
by the Traffic Authority or shall be found parked on any public street or
highway in violation of any of the provisions of any resolution, rule or
regulation of the Traffic Authority, a police officer may serve upon the owner
or operator of the vehicle or attach to the vehicle a parking ticket directing
the owner or operator thereof to appear at the office of police headquarters
within seven days. The vehicle may be removed or conveyed by or under direction
of a member of the Department of Police by means of towing the same or
otherwise to a public garage or open parking place in the city and the removal
shall be at the risk of the owner. Before the owner or person in charge of the
vehicle shall be permitted to remove the same from the custody of the
Department of Police, he shall furnish evidence of his identity and ownership
or right to possess and shall sign a receipt for the vehicle and shall pay to
the garage keeper the fee currently established and charged for removing,
towing and storage. The Clerk of the Police Department shall notify the owner
of any vehicle so towed away at his last known address or otherwise of its
removal. The above fees shall not apply to vehicles involved in accidents. The
removing, towing and storage charges shall be a lien upon the vehicle and the
payment of such shall not release the operator from any penalty imposed for a
violation of the motor vehicle laws of the state or of any ordinance or traffic
regulation of the city.
(1967 Code, § 11-7) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971; Ord. passed 9-2-1975)
§ 70.61 PAYMENT OF BAIL.
   (A)   When any person shall receive a parking ticket issued pursuant to §
70.60, the person may, within 14 days of the date of the ticket, pay to the Tax
Collector the established fine for the parking violation involved and, upon
payment of the amount, a prosecution under this chapter shall be barred. The
fine designated for the offense charged may be paid either in person by
appearing at the office of the Tax Collector in the city or by mailing a check
or money order to: "Tax Collector, City of Waterbury, Waterbury, Connecticut".
   (B)   In the event any person fails to pay the fine or appeal the fine in
accordance with §
70.63 of this code an additional fine will be established as set forth in §
70.55 or in the table of fees for parking violations promulgated by the Traffic
Authority.
(1967 Code, § 11-8) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971; Ord. passed 9-22-1975; Ord. passed
5-24-2004)
§ 70.62 PRESUMPTION CREATED.
   In any prosecution or proceeding hereunder, the registration number
displayed on the registration plate on the motor vehicle shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the person to whom the registration
plate was issued was the person who parked the vehicle at the place where the
violation occurred. The fact that a parking meter adjacent to the parking meter
space in which a vehicle may be found parked at a time when the regulations of
the Traffic Authority require the use of a parking meter indicates either that
the meter had not been set in operation by the operator of the vehicle, or that
the time limited for parking has expired shall be conclusive evidence that the
parking of the vehicle has been in violation of this chapter unless an
examination by the Police Department demonstrates that the parking meter was
defective or out of order.
(1967 Code, § 11-9)
§ 70.63 PARKING VIOLATION APPEALS.
   (A)   Administrative appeal procedure.
      (1)   Any operator or owner of a vehicle that has received a parking
ticket, pursuant to §
70.60 of this code, may submit to the Traffic Authority a written request for
administrative appeal of the issuance of the ticket within a designated appeal
period of not more than 14 days from the date of the ticket.
      (2)   The Traffic Authority shall establish and publish notices
indicating the procedures to request administrative appeal under division (A)
(1) above and shall cause notice of appeal rights to be printed on each ticket
issued.
      (3)   Payment of the fine and any penalty shall be stayed pending the
administrative appeal. Payment of the fine and any penalty shall be made within
14 days of mailing of finding of the administrative appeal; unless, a finding
was made in favor of the appellant or if the appellant has elected to proceed
hereunder.
      (4)   Any person who has requested an administrative appeal pursuant to
division (A) above shall be notified, in writing, of the finding relative to
the appeal within 45 days of the issuance of the ticket. If the appellant is
dissatisfied with the finding, the appellant may, in accordance with division
(B) below, request a formal hearing by submitting a written request to the
Chief of Police or his designee within 14 days of the finding of the
administrative appeal.
      (5)   If a finding was made in favor of the appellant, the finding shall
be certified to the Police Department and the record of the ticket shall be
removed from the files of the city.
   (B)   Formal hearing appeal procedure.
      (1)   Appointment of Hearing Officers. The Mayor shall appoint one or
more Parking Violations Hearing Officers (the "Hearing Officer"). The Hearing
Officers shall not be employees of the Police Department or those agencies or
departments which administer any aspect of traffic maintenance, parking,
engineering or enforcement. The Hearing Officers shall serve for a term of two
years.
      (2)   Power of the Hearing Officers. The Hearing Officers shall be
empowered to hear appeals from the issuance of tickets for violations of this
chapter.
      (3)   Subject matter of hearings. Any person or owner of a vehicle
ticketed pursuant to §
70.60 may, within 14 days of any of the following events, request a formal
hearing before a Hearing Officer:
         (a)   Issuance of a parking violation ticket;
         (b)   Issuance of adverse findings in an administrative appeal; and
         (c)   First issuance of notice of delinquency of parking ticket.
      (4)   Applicable fines and penalties. A person requesting the formal
hearing appeal shall be subject only to fines and penalties which are in effect
at the date of request of hearing.
      (5)   Procedures in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152b. The
hearing procedure shall comply with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152b.
      (6)   Notice. In scheduling formal appeal hearings, an appellant shall be
notified by mail of the place and time of the hearing. The notice shall be
provided at least 15 days, but not more than 30 days, prior to the scheduled
hearing date.
      (7)   Informal hearing. The procedure for the hearing shall be informal
as to the rules of evidence, but testimony shall be taken under oath or
affirmation.
      (8)   Standard of proof. In considering an appeal, the standard of proof
shall be preponderance of the evidence. The Hearing Officer may consider all
relevant facts and circumstances and may require personal appearance of the
appellant and issuing officer. Evidence and testimony must be presented at the
time of the hearing; no other testimony or evidence shall be considered. The
appellant may require the presence of the issuing officer at the formal hearing
if the request is made via certified mail and received by the Police Department
at least five business days before the date of the formal hearing.
      (9)   Ruling for the appellant. Should the Hearing Officer find in favor
of the appellant, the Hearing Officer shall so certify to the Police Department
and the record of the citation shall be removed from the files of the city.
      (10)   Ruling for the city. Should the Hearing Officer find the issuance
of the ticket proper, the Hearing Officer shall so certify to the Police
Department and shall assess the total amount due on the ticket(s) at the time
that the hearing was requested ("assessment"). No further appeal under this
section shall be considered, either administrative or formal.
      (11)   Failure to appear. If the person fails to appear, the Hearing
Officer may enter an assessment by default against him upon a finding of proper
notice and liability under the applicable statutes or ordinances.
      (12)   Judicial review. A person against whom an assessment has been
entered pursuant to this section is entitled to judicial review by way of
appeal. An appeal shall be instituted within 30 days of the mailing of notice
of the assessment or such other time as may be provided by Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-152b.
      (13)   Assessment entered as judgment. In accordance with Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-152b, if the assessment is not paid on the date of its entry, the
Hearing Officer shall send by first class mail a notice of the assessment to
the person found liable and shall file, not less than 30 days, nor more than 12
months, after the mailing, a certified copy of the notice of assessment with
the clerk of a superior court facility designated by the Chief Court
Administrator together with an entry fee as set forth in the schedule of fines,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The certified copy of the notice of assessment shall
constitute a record of assessment. Within the 12-month period, assessments
against the same person may be accrued and filed as one record of assessment.
The clerk shall enter judgment, in the amount of the record of assessment and
court costs of $8, against such person in favor of the city. Notwithstanding
any provision of the general statutes, the Hearing Officer’s assessment, when
so entered as a judgment, shall have the effect of a civil money judgment and a
levy of execution on the judgment may issue without further notice to the
person. In this respect the city may proceed to enforce the assessment using
any and all legal means to collect fines and penalties due, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Use of a collection agency;
         (b)   Civil proceedings;
         (c)   Issuance of a state infraction;
         (d)   Vehicle impoundment; or
         (e)   Withholding registration renewal, pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §
14-33.
      (14)   Finding of liability. In any instance where the city can determine
the owner of the motor vehicle received the original notice of violation issued
by a police officer or other issuing authority, and the owner failed to contest
the violation within the time prescribed by ordinance, the Hearing Officer
shall assess a finding of liability by default, no hearing notice to the owner
shall be required, and the provisions of division (B)(12) above shall apply.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 70.64 DENIAL OF REGISTRATION RENEWAL.
   (A)   In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-33, every owner of a
registered motor vehicle, who has unpaid fines for four or more parking
violations committed within the city, shall be reported by the Finance
Director, or the designee of the Director to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
of the State of Connecticut, and the owner shall not be permitted to renew his
motor vehicle registration until the delinquent fines have been paid or the
matter has been otherwise settled.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of leasing or renting motor vehicles
without drivers in the state with respect to any motor vehicle which is leased
or rented.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 70.65 REMOVAL OR IMMOBILIZATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES BEARING OUTSTANDING
TICKETS.
   (A)   Whenever there is found any motor vehicle parked upon the streets or
public grounds of the city which has received four or more parking tickets
issued for a violation of any provision of
Chapter 70 of this code which are delinquent, unpaid or otherwise unsettled and
uncontested, the vehicle may, by towing or otherwise, upon approval of the
Traffic Authority or its designee, be removed for safekeeping, by or under the
direction of a police officer, traffic violations officer or other individual
empowered by the Traffic Authority, to a garage or other location, or the
vehicle may be immobilized in such a manner as to prevent its removal or
operation except by persons as shall be authorized to do so by the Traffic
Authority.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any police or traffic violations officer
removing or immobilizing a motor vehicle or under whose direction such a
vehicle is removed or immobilized to inform as soon as practicable, within one
business day, the owner of the removed or immobilized vehicle. The Traffic
Authority shall give notice to the City Police Department before removing any
vehicle. Furthermore, the Traffic Authority shall send notice of the removal or
immobilization to the registered owner by certified mail, within one business
day, of the action. The notice shall apprise the owner of the prior unsettled
parking violations notices for which the vehicle was removed or immobilized. In
any case involving immobilization of a vehicle pursuant to this section, there
shall be placed on the vehicle, in a conspicuous manner, a notice warning that
the vehicle has been immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle might
result in damage thereto.
   (C)   Release of vehicle.
      (1)   Before the owner or duly authorized person shall be allowed to
repossess or to secure the release of the vehicle, he shall pay the following:
         (a)   The cost of towing and/or booting fee, whichever applies;
         (b)   The cost of storage for each day or portion of a day that the
vehicle is stored;
         (c)   All sums legally due for any city parking citations issued and
outstanding against the vehicle; and
         (d)   A bond with a surety company, authorized to do business in the
state, in an amount sufficient to cover the charges specified in divisions (C)
(1)(a), (b) and (c) above.
      (2)   No such vehicle shall be released until the owner or a duly
authorized person has established his identity and right to possession and has
signed a proper receipt therefore.
   (D)   The owner or keeper of any garage or other place where the motor
vehicle is stored shall have a lien upon the vehicle for the owner's or
keeper's towing and/or storage charges. Any such vehicles which remain
unclaimed may be disposed of pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §
14-150, including by auction or sale.
   (E)   Any person who, after having had his vehicle towed or immobilized,
removes the vehicle without complying with division (C) above shall, in
addition to the charge provided for in division (C) above, be liable for any
damage done to the immobilization device or mechanism and be subject to a fine
as set forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached
to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (F)   Prior to scheduling any vehicle on a list for impoundment or
immobilization, the Traffic Authority shall cause to be mailed to the
registered owner a list of all delinquent charges and a statement warning that
the vehicle shall be impounded or immobilized if found and giving notice of
appeal rights pursuant to division (B) above. The notice shall be mailed no
sooner than 15 days prior to the placement of any vehicle on a list for
impoundment or immobilization.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 70.66 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY THE TRAFFIC AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his designee to keep a
record of the names of the owners of all vehicles taken into custody under the
provision of §
70.65, the numbers of their state license plates, the place each vehicle is
being stored and the nature, circumstances and disposition of each case, and to
immediately notify the Police Department of the same.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police or his designee
to furnish to the Police Department records and procedures relating to the
enforcement of this section by traffic violation officers, police officers or
other individuals empowered by the Traffic Authority.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 70.67 IMPLEMENTATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Traffic Authority of the city is empowered to establish procedures
implementing the provisions of this chapter. The Traffic Authority may enter
into contracts with firms to process citations, collect penalties, prepare
reports and perform clerical services as may reasonably be necessary to effect
these provisions.
   (B)   Any such contract shall be approved as to form by the Corporation
Counsel and provisions relating to the handling of penalties shall be approved
by the Finance Director. Any such contract shall be deemed a professional
service agreement.
   (C)   Wherever, in this chapter, penalties are set by time and the increase
in penalty would take effect on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the increase
shall be deemed to take effect at the close of business the next working day of
the parking violations office.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 70.68 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any order
or regulation by the Traffic Authority or for any person to fail to comply with
any direction, by voice, hand or sign, of any member of the Police Department
or traffic violations officer or for any person to fail to comply with any
traffic sign or signal unless otherwise directed by a member of the Police
Department or traffic violations officer.
   (B)   Employees of the city, duly authorized by resolution of the Traffic
Authority, are empowered by this section to issue notices pertaining to
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the schedule of
fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
70.03 shall be a fine as set forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties
and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each and every day that a violation occurs shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense, subject to the stated punishment.
(1967 Code, § 11-10)
   (C)   Any owner or operator of a parking facility that does not register,
does not provide adequate handicapped parking or does not provide appropriate
aboveground marking of handicapped parking spaces, shall be liable for a civil
penalty, plus an additional penalty for each day the violation exists, as set
forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Appeals can be filed through the Building Board of Appeals.
(1967 Code, § 11-22(c))
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
70.30 through
70.34 shall be issued a parking violation by the Police Department in the
amount set forth in the schedule of fines, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. If said amount is not paid within seven days of issuance, a
new amount to be paid shall be as set forth in the schedule of fines, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code . Further, any violating vehicle not removed from parking
spaces reserved for handicapped individuals within two hours shall be subject
to being towed at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(1967 Code, § 11-19)
   (E)   Any person violating §
70.48 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as set forth in the schedule
of fines, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The registered owner of a motor vehicle shall be presumed
to be the operator of the vehicle.
(1967 Code, § 7-62)
(Ord. passed 10-4-1973; Ord. passed 11-1-1980; Ord. passed 12-6-1982; Ord.
passed 12-5-1988; Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Penalties for violating parking regulations, see §
70.55
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
92.   ANIMALS
         
93.   DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
         
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
95.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS STORAGE
         
96.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
97.   NOISE CONTROL
         
98.   PARKS AND TREES
         
99.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
100.   MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Storing, parking or leaving dismantled motor vehicle or the like
prohibited
   
90.04   Notice to remove
   
90.05   Content of notice
   
90.06   Responsibility for removal
   
90.07   Request for hearing
   
90.08   Hearing procedure
   
90.09   Removal of abandoned motor vehicle from property
   
90.10   Notice of removal
   
90.11   Disposition of vehicles
   
90.12   Contents of public sale notice
   
90.13   Public sale
   
90.14   Redemption of impounded motor vehicles
   
90.15   Liability of owner or occupant
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be known and may be
cited as the "Abandoned, Wrecked, Dismantled or Inoperable Motor Vehicle
Ordinance".
(1967 Code, § 11A-1) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not lawfully registered,
and the condition of which is damaged, dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperative.
   CITY. The City of Waterbury.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to
travel along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles,
buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motorscooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts,
campers and trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property, as defined in this section, and other
publicly-owned property or facility other than a highway.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel.
(1967 Code, § 11A-2) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.03 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLE OR THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned condition
whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within the city
for a period of time in excess of 72 hours.
   (B)   The presence of an abandoned motor vehicle or parts thereof, on
private or public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be
abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle on private property
which is enclosed within a building held in connection with a business
enterprise lawfully licensed by the city and properly operated in the
appropriate zone, pursuant to the zoning laws of the city, nor shall this
section apply to any motor vehicle which is in operable condition specifically
adapted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways, or retained by
the owner for antique collection purposes subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   Only one such motor vehicle shall be permitted at any one time on
the property in question;
      (2)   Automobile parts used in the restoration must be stored in the
motor vehicle or in a structure;
      (3)   One motor vehicle in addition of the motor vehicle being restored
may be maintained on the property for no more than 30 days if it is used for
parts; and
      (4)   Such motor vehicles are to be covered with a tarpaulin whenever
work is not being done upon them.
(1967 Code, § 11A-3) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Any officer of the Police Department, any official of the Building
Official's office or any official of the Health Department, upon discovery of
or upon notification by any other person of an abandoned motor vehicle, as
defined in §
90.02 of this chapter, shall notify the Superintendent of Police who shall:
   (A)   Send a notice in writing by certified mail to the owner of the
abandoned motor vehicle, if determinable, and the owner of the private property
and/or the occupant of the private property upon which the motor vehicle is
located, if not the owner, requesting removal of the motor vehicle within 30
days;
   (B)   Publish notice in a local newspaper with daily circulation that the
abandoned motor vehicle must be removed; and
   (C)   Post a copy of the notice on the abandoned motor vehicle.
(1967 Code, § 11A-4) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.05 CONTENT OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time specified
in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that upon failure to comply with
the notice to remove, the city or its designee shall undertake the removal with
the cost of removal to be levied against the owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle, the owner of the property and/or the occupant of the property and they
shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the costs.
(1967 Code, § 11A-5) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned
motor vehicle, the owner of the private property and the occupant of the
private property, on which the same is located shall be responsible for its
removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the city, the owner of the
abandoned motor vehicle, the owner of the private property and/or the occupant
of the private property where same is located shall be jointly and severally
liable for the expenses incurred.
(1967 Code, § 11A-6) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized
agents, may file a written request with the Superintendent of Police for a
hearing before the Hearing Officer appointed by the Mayor pursuant to the
provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-150, within the 30-day period of compliance
prescribed in §
90.04 for the purpose of defending the charges by the city. Forms to request a
hearing shall be available at the Police Department.
(1967 Code, § 11A-7) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.08 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the filing of the
request, and the persons to whom the notices are directed shall be advised of
the time and place of the hearing at least seven days in advance thereof. At
any such hearing, the city and the persons to whom the notices have been
directed may introduce the witnesses and evidence as either party deems
necessary.
(1967 Code, § 11A-8) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within
the 30-day period of compliance or in the event that a notice requesting a
hearing is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the existence of the violation
is affirmed by the Hearing Officer, the city or its designee shall have the
right to take possession of the abandoned motor vehicle and remove it from the
premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow the person or persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of removing an abandoned motor vehicle under the provisions of this
chapter.
(1967 Code, § 11A-9) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   Within 48 hours of the removal of the abandoned motor vehicle, the Police
Department shall send notice to the registered owner of the abandoned vehicle,
if known, and also to the owner of the private property and the occupant of the
private property from which the motor vehicle was removed, that the abandoned
motor vehicle, or motor vehicles, has been impounded and stored for violation
of this chapter. The notice shall give the storage location of the abandoned
motor vehicle or motor vehicles, the costs incurred by the city for removal and
storage, and the information that the abandoned motor vehicle may be sold:
   (A)   If the market value of the abandoned motor vehicle does not exceed
$100 and it is stored for more than 30 days; or
   (B)   If the value of the abandoned motor vehicle exceeds $100 and it is
stored for more than 90 days.
(1967 Code, § 11A-10) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.11 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any garage or other place where an abandoned
motor vehicle is stored shall have a lien upon the same for his storage
charges, and if the current market value of the abandoned motor vehicle does
not exceed $100 and the abandoned motor vehicle has been stored for a period of
not less than 30 days, the owner or keeper, unless an application filed by the
abandoned vehicle owner pursuant to §
90.07 is pending and the owner of the abandoned motor vehicle has notified the
garage owner or keeper that the application for hearing has been filed, may
sell the same for storage and towing charges owed thereon provided a notice of
intent to sell shall be sent to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles and the
owner of the abandoned motor vehicle, if known, five days before the sale of
the abandoned motor vehicle. If the current market value of the abandoned motor
vehicle exceeds $100 and if the abandoned motor vehicle has been stored for a
period of 90 days, the garage owner or keeper, unless an application filed by
the vehicle owner pursuant to §
90.07 is pending and the owner of such abandoned motor vehicle has notified the
garage owner or keeper that the application for hearing has been filed, shall
sell the abandoned motor vehicle at public auction for cash, at his place of
business, and apply the avails of the sale toward the payment of his charges
and the payment of any debt or obligation incurred by the city in placing the
same in storage; provided, the sale shall be advertised in a local newspaper
with daily circulation three times, commencing at least five days before the
sale; and, if the last place of abode of the owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle is known to or may be ascertained by the garage owner or keeper by the
exercise of reasonable diligence, notice of the time and place of sale shall be
given to the vehicle owner by mailing such notice in a registered or certified
letter, postage prepaid, at such last usual place of abode, at least five days
before the time of sale. The garage owner or keeper shall report the sales
price, storing, towing and repair charges, if any, buyer's name and address,
identification of the abandoned motor vehicle and such other information as may
be required in regulations which shall be adopted by the Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 54, to the Commissioner
within 15 days after the sale of the abandoned motor vehicle. The proceeds of
the sale, after deducting the amount due the garage owner or keeper and all
expenses connected with the sale including the expenses of the city in placing
the abandoned motor vehicle in storage, shall be paid to the owner of the motor
vehicle or his legal representatives, if claimed by him or them at any time
within one year from the date of sale of the motor vehicle. If the balance is
not claimed within the period, it shall escheat to the state.
   (B)   If the owner of the abandoned motor vehicle placed in storage in
accordance with the provisions of this section does not claim the abandoned
motor vehicle within 30 days, the owner of the garage or other place of storage
shall, within 40 days of the date the abandoned motor vehicle was placed in
storage with him, send a written notice to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles,
stating the make, engine number and chassis number of the motor vehicle, the
date the abandoned motor vehicle was left with him for storage and by whom, and
the registration number thereof, if any number plates are on the abandoned
motor vehicle. The notice shall be placed on file by the Commissioner and shall
be subject to public inspection. Any sale under the provisions of this section
shall be void, unless the notice required by this section has been given to the
Commissioner.
(1967 Code, § 11A-11) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.12 CONTENTS OF PUBLIC SALE NOTICE.
   The notice of sale shall state:
   (A)   The sale is of abandoned property;
   (B)   A description of the motor vehicle, including make, model, license
number and any other information which will accurately identify the vehicle;
   (C)   The terms of the sale; and
   (D)   The date, time and place of the sale.
(1967 Code, § 11A-12) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.13 PUBLIC SALE.
   The motor vehicle shall be sold to the highest bidder upon approval of the
Board of Aldermen. Should the sale for any reason be invalid, the city's
liability shall be limited to the return of the purchase price.
(1967 Code, § 11A-13) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.14 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The owner of any abandoned motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this
chapter may redeem the abandoned motor vehicle at any time after its removal,
but prior to the sale or destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and
payment to the city of a sum as it may determine and fix for the actual and
reasonable expense of removal, storage and any preliminary sale advertising
expenses for each vehicle redeemed.
(1967 Code, § 11A-14) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985)
§ 90.15 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Upon failure of the owner of the abandoned motor vehicle, the owner of the
private property and/or the occupant of the private property from which
abandoned motor vehicles have been removed by the city to pay the unrecovered
expenses incurred by the city in the removal, a lien shall be placed upon the
property of the owner of the abandoned motor vehicle, or the owner of the
property and/or the occupant of the property for the amount of the property
and/or the occupant of the property for the amount of the expenses.
(1967 Code, § 11A-15) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY. 
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and/or shall be summoned or brought to community court
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior court judge assigned to
the community court may impose a penalty of community service, a fine up to
$100, or other penalty permitted by law.
(1967 Code, § 11A-16) (Ord. passed 2-11-1985; Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Intent and purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Requirements
   
91.04   Reports
   
91.05   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide minimum standards
and regulations applicable to users and installers of burglar, fire, hold-up
and automatic telephone dialer alarms within the city, to provide penalties for
noncompliance; and to encourage the installation of protective alarm systems in
all dwellings and commercial structures.
(1967 Code, § 2A-1) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device, such
as a solid state unit, which may operate from a 110-volt AC line) arranged to
signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which Police
or Fire Department personnel are expected to respond. This includes all burglar
alarms, fire alarms, hold-up alarms and automatic telephone dialer alarms,
except this does not include smoke detectors or alarms which do not signal
outside an alarmed premise or alarm systems on motor vehicles.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm or corporation on whose premises any alarm
system is maintained within the city.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE. An alarm system which automatically
sends over regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a
prerecorded voice message indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the owner or lessee of
an alarm system or his employees or agents. The terminology does not include
for example, alarms caused by hurricane, tornadoes, earthquakes or other
normally infrequent violent conditions or acts of God. Excluded from this
chapter are false alarms that are transmitted with a criminal, malicious or
mischievous intent. The violations will be prosecuted under the applicable
state statutes.
(1967 Code, § 2A-2) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983)
§ 91.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation installing an alarm system within the
city shall register with the Police Department at least ten days prior to
anticipated installation. All existing alarm systems shall be registered with
the Police Department within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter
(April 8, 1983).
   (B)   No alarm system shall be installed unless an electrical permit to
install an alarm system has been obtained from the Building Official, or his
designated representative, as is required by the building and electrical codes
of the state.
   (C)   Alarm users having existing automatic telephone, dialing devices shall
comply with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-282b.
   (D)   Automatic telephone dialing devices in existence as of the effective
date of this chapter (4-8-1983) shall be reprogrammed to a special Police
Department telephone number, which is to be designated by the Superintendent of
Police within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. Any automatic
telephone dialing device terminating at the Police Department, installed after
the effective date of this chapter shall also be programmed to this special
number. Prior to January 1 of each year, a fee as set forth for each such
device in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code shall be paid to the Police Department by alarm users
affected by this section.
   (E)   All alarm systems as defined in this chapter, which make or sound an
audible signal which may be heard outside of the protected premises, shall be
equipped with a device which shall limit the duration of such audible signal to
not more than 30 minutes in accordance with § 22a-69-5.1 of the Administrative
Regulations of the Department of Environmental Protection of the State of
Connecticut.
   (F)   A maximum of three false alarms per year shall be allowed from any
alarm system of any person, firm or corporation at any given location without
penalty. The time period of one year shall be calculated as a 12-month period
beginning January 1 and ending on December 31 in any calendar year. Upon
receipt of a fourth false alarm and for each false alarm thereafter during each
yearly period, a fine shall be assessed in accordance with this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 2A-3) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983; Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.04 REPORTS.
   (A)   Within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter, the
Superintendent of Police shall establish a written procedure for administering
and enforcing the provisions of this chapter. The procedure and any subsequent
amendments thereto, shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Police
Commissioners and the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   In January and July of each year, the Superintendent of Police shall
submit a report to the Board of Police Commissioners and the Board of Aldermen
regarding the effectiveness of this chapter and any recommendations thereon.
(1967 Code, § 2A-5) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983)
§ 91.05 APPEALS. 
   Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved under any provision of this
chapter may file a written appeal with the Board of Police Commissioners. The
appeal shall be filed no later than 15 days after the official notice of
violation is mailed by the Police Department. Within 30 days of the filing of
the appeal, the Board of Police Commissioners shall hear the matter and rule
thereon. The decision of the Board of Police Commissioners may be appealed to
the Superior Court.
(1967 Code, § 2A-4(e)) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of §
91.03(A), (D) or (E) of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of §
91.03(F) of this chapter shall be fined as set forth for each false alarm in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of any other
provision of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (D)   Any fine levied in accordance with this chapter shall be paid to the
Police Department within 60 days of notification of the fine.
(1967 Code, § 2A-4) (Ord. passed 3-3-1983; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Animal Control Department
   
92.02   Commission; created; appointment; terms; duties
   
92.03   Keeping poisonous reptiles or constrictors
   
92.04   Noisy animals
   
92.05   Burial of dead animals
Dogs
   
92.20   Purpose and intent
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   License and registration required; exceptions
   
92.23   Parvovirus vaccination required
   
92.24   Breeding permit required
   
92.25   Inspection of premises to be used for breeding purposes
   
92.26   Litter permits required
   
92.27   Adequacy of facilities and care
   
92.28   Restraint and confinement generally
   
92.29   Restraint of guard or attack dogs and vicious or dangerous dogs,
notification, insurance
   
92.30   Harboring dogs for blood sport prohibited
   
92.31   Impoundment; issuance of citations; hearing procedure
   
92.32   Notice to owner and redemption
   
92.33   Administrative sanctions and remedies
   
92.34   Appeals
   
92.35   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be established an Animal Control Department of the city. The
Animal Control Department shall have as its executive head the Animal Control
Warden. The powers and duties of the Animal Control Warden shall be such as are
set forth in the state general statutes as same may be amended from time to
time or at the discretion of the Mayor. The Superintendent shall also appoint,
from a civil service list, as many Assistant Animal Control Wardens as may be
provided for in the budget of the city from time to time.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1999; Ord. passed 10-10-2000)
§ 92.02 COMMISSION; CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created an Animal Shelter Commission consisting
of five members. The Board of Aldermen shall appoint the members. If a vacancy
occurs for any reason prior to the expiration of any member's term the Board of
Aldermen shall appoint a replacement to serve for the remainder of the existing
term.
      (2)   The Animal Control Warden shall be an ex-officio member of the
Animal Shelter Commission.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission created by division (A) above shall consult with
the Animal Control Warden and be advisory to the Mayor in matters pertaining
to:
         (a)   Maintenance and operation of the animal shelter;
         (b)   Formulation of policy regarding animal shelter activities; and
         (c)   Hiring, supervision and evaluation of the Animal Control Warden.
      (2)   In the event of a vacancy in the position of Animal Control Warden,
the Commission shall make recommendations to the Mayor pertaining to the hiring
of the Animal Control Warden. The Animal Shelter Commission shall also make
recommendations to the Mayor and Animal Control Warden to promote a high
standard of the humane care and treatment of animals within the city.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1999; Ord. passed 10-10-2000)
§ 92.03 KEEPING POISONOUS REPTILES OR CONSTRICTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRICTORS. Includes but is not limited to constrictors of any type,
pythons, and other nonvenomous reptiles.
      PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, club, partnership, society,
or any other form of association, organization, or institution.
      POISONOUS REPTILES. Includes but is not limited to any live venomous or
poisonous snake, alligator, crocodile, or other such reptiles in the aforesaid
categories.
   (B)   No person shall, within the limits of the city, keep, maintain, or
display a poisonous reptile for any purpose whatsoever.
   (C)   No person shall, within the limits of the city, keep, maintain, or
display a constrictor without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent of Police.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to licensed circuses,
exhibits, or to museums or laboratories maintained by scientific or educational
institutions with the exception that no such museum having live snakes in its
collection shall be maintained in any residential area of Waterbury.
   (E)   Any licensed circus, exhibit, or museum or laboratory maintained by a
scientific or educational institution shall obtain a written permit from the
Superintendent of Police of the city before it may keep, maintain, or display
any of the poisonous reptiles or constrictors the keeping, maintaining, or
displaying of which is prohibited by either division (B) or (C) of this
section.
(1967 Code, § 13-14) (Ord. passed 11-24-1978) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Reptiles and constrictors generally, city's authority to regulate keeping,
see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7)(D)(ii)
§ 92.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any house, stable,
or other building or premises, shall keep or allow thereon or therein any dog
or other animal or birds, or poultry, which shall by noise disturb the quiet or
repose of any person therein or in the vicinity.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 57) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Permit from Board of Health required to keep cattle, sheep, swine, and the
like, see §
96.125
§ 92.05 BURIAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal that shall die or be found dead in the city, except
when the animal has been killed for food and is fit for food, shall cause the
animal to be immediately buried at least three feet underground.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 58) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS
§ 92.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city by addressing the public nuisance
caused by vicious and dangerous dogs and to ensure that all animals receive
adequate care. This subchapter is intended to supplement and not supplant the
provisions contained in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22-339 et seq., regarding domestic
animals. The Animal Control Officer shall have the discretion as to whether to
proceed pursuant to state or local law.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1999; Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An employee or agent of the city to administer and
enforce the licensing, inspection and enforcement requirements contained within
this subchapter and state statutes.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the city and shall also include any
private facility authorized by the Animal Control Officer or his designee to
impound, confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
   AT LARGE. An animal which is off the premises of the owner and not on a
leash or otherwise under the immediate control of a person capable of
restraining the animal.
   BREEDING. The mating and production of offspring by dogs, whether such
offspring result from sexual activity or artificial insemination.
   DISPOSITION. Adoption, sale, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary placement
or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG. A dog, of any breed or either sex, trained or utilized
to, attack, repel or apprehend unauthorized intruders, whether on command or by
instinct.
   HEARING OFFICER. A person designated by the Animal Shelter Commission to
administer hearings provided for when citations are issued by the Animal
Control Officer.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking into custody of an animal by an Animal Control
Officer or any authorized representative thereof.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material designed to fasten
over the mouth of a dog to prevent it from biting any person or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of harboring, exercising control over, or keeping or having
property rights to, any animal covered by this subchapter.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. A dog is secured by a leash and under the control of an
individual who is mentally and physically capable of restraining the animal and
obedient to that person's commands, or securely enclosed (e.g. appropriate
fence) within the real property limits of the owner's premises.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that has attacked, bitten or physically
injured human beings or other domestic animals without adequate provocation.
Any dog that without provocation has bitten or attacked a human being or
another domestic animal or has behaved so as to impose a threat of imminent
bodily harm to a person conducting himself peacefully and lawfully shall be
prima facie presumed vicious or dangerous. No dog may be declared vicious if
any injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at the time the injury was
sustained, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was teasing, tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. No dog
may be declared vicious if the dog was protecting or defending a human being
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1999; Ord. passed 10-9-2012; Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.22 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Each owner of a dog of the age of six months or older, except dogs kept
under a kennel license as provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-342, shall cause
such dog to be licensed and registered in the Town Clerk's Office on or before
June thirtieth, annually, or at such time as such dog becomes six months old,
and annually thereafter, on or before June thirtieth.
   (A)   Any owner applying for a license for a dog under division (A) of this
section, except for those owners or keepers possessing a rabies vaccination
exemption certificate, or a copy thereof, issued pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §
22-339b, shall submit to the Town Clerk a rabies certificate signed by a
licensed veterinarian, or a copy thereof, stating that such dog has been
vaccinated against rabies, the date of the vaccination and the duration of the
immunity provided by the vaccine. No license shall be issued unless the
certificate indicates that the immunity provided by the vaccine is effective at
the time of licensing.
   (B)   Any owner applying for a license for a dog pursuant to division (A) of
this section that has been exempted from vaccination against rabies pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-339b shall submit to the Town Clerk a rabies vaccination
exemption certificate issued pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-339b, or a copy
thereof, in lieu of a rabies certificate.
   (C)   Any owner applying for a license shall pay to the Town Clerk a license
fee in an amount as specified in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 435.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any dog which is imported into this
state for exhibition purposes and which does not remain in this state for more
than 30 days. Any person may import, from another state, any licensed dog with
collar, tag and rabies vaccination certificate, and keep the same in this state
for not more than 30 days, without complying with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.23 PARVOVIRUS VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Any owner applying for a license for a dog under §
92.22(A), shall submit to the Town Clerk a parvovirus vaccination record from a
licensed veterinarian, or a copy thereof, stating that such dog has been
vaccinated against parvovirus, the date of the vaccination and the duration of
the immunity provided by the vaccine.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.24 BREEDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of breeding, an owner must obtain a breeding
permit from the Animal Control Division of the Police Department for each dog
that he or she intends to breed within the city. No person, as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, shall breed any dog within the city without a
breeding permit. The breeding permit shall expire six months from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   Each completed application for a breeding permit must be submitted to
the Animal Control Division.
   (C)   Each application for a breeding permit shall be accompanied by a fee
as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached
to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and no breeding permit shall be issued until the application
fee is paid.
   (D)   Each breeding permit is issued to the dog owner and cannot be sold,
purchased, traded, or otherwise conveyed.
   (E)   No breeding permit shall be issued unless the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The applicant has submitted the required forms to the Animal
Control Division together with fees as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this Code.
      (2)   The applicant has an indoor space and outdoor space in which to
breed the dogs and raise the offspring that will contain the dogs as well as
provide them with safe, sanitary, and humane conditions, appropriate for
breeding a specific breed, and which satisfies all applicable provisions of
this Code and all applicable state animal welfare laws.
      (3)   The Animal Control Division has evaluated the physical and
behavioral characteristics regarding the suitability of the particular dogs to
be bred.
      (4)   The dog identified in the breeding permit must be micro-chipped.
   (F)   The Animal Control Division may deny any application for a breeding
permit if it finds that one or more of the following has occurred:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to appropriately license the dog to be
bred.
      (2)   The applicant has failed to pay the appropriate application fee.
      (3)   As determined by the State of Connecticut and/or City of Waterbury,
the applicant has a history of allowing dogs to run loose or escape, or has
otherwise been found to be neglectful; has had his/her dog identified as a
nuisance; or has previously been determined to have violated the provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   Within the last ten months, the applicant has both obtained a
breeding permit and bred the subject dog.
      (5)   The applicant has failed to provide a parvovirus vaccination record
from a licensed veterinarian pursuant to §
92.23 of this Code.
   (G)   In the event that a dog owner fails to apply for a breeding permit
before the commencement of breeding, the animal control division may issue the
breeding permit without penalty if it determines that the failure to acquire
the breeding permit was not in bad faith.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.25 INSPECTION OF PREMISES TO BE USED FOR BREEDING PURPOSES.
   (A)   Prior to issuing a breeding permit, the Animal Control Officer or his
designee shall inspect the premises to be used for breeding purposes and
conduct the evalua-tion pursuant to §
92.24(E)(2) of this chapter. The Animal Control Officer or his designee shall
conduct such inspection at a reasonable time when the applicant or his/her
representative is present.
   (B)   If the applicant refuses to allow the Animal Control Officer or his
designee to conduct such inspection, the application shall be denied.
   (C)   Up to one year after issuing the breeding permit, the Animal Control
Officer or his designee shall have the option, on one or more occasions, to
reinspect the premises being used for breeding purpose to ensure that the
conditions required for receiving a permit are continuing to be met. The Animal
Control Officer or his designee shall conduct such reinspection at a reasonable
time when the permit holder or his/her representative is present.
   (D)   If the permit holder refuses to allow the Animal Control Officer or
his designee to conduct such reinspection, the Animal Control Officer or his
designee will determine that the permit holder is conducting breeding
activities in violation of this chapter, and the breeding permit shall be
revoked.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.26 LITTER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All dog owners must apply to and obtain a litter permit from the
Animal Control Division before any litter is born. A litter permit application
shall be accompanied by a litter permit fee in the amount as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this Code.
   (B)   In the event that a dog owner fails to apply for a litter permit
before the birth of a litter, the animal control division may issue the litter
permit without penalty if it determines that the failure to acquire the litter
permit was not in bad faith.
   (C)   No more than two litter permits will be issued to a dog owner within
one year unless said owner also provides proof of a valid kennel license under
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-342.
   (D)   All puppies from each litter shall be micro-chipped prior to sale or
transfer but no earlier than eight weeks of age.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.27 ADEQUACY OF FACILITIES AND CARE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep dogs, cats or other
animals within the city if he or she fails to maintain adequate facilities and
humane care therefor.
   (B)   An enclosure regularly used for housing a dog shall contain food and
clean water, an area protected from rain, snow and direct sun, and shall be
kept free of accumulated feces.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.28 RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to fail to
keep the dogs under restraint or to permit dogs to run at large upon the
streets and public ways of the city or upon property other than that of the
owner or keeper.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, any owner, keeper or custodian of
any dog who has his dog registered for obedience training shall be allowed to
train his dog while not under restraint on private property and with the
permission of the property owner.
   (C)   Except for the circumstances described in this section, no owner,
keeper or custodian of any dog shall fail to exercise proper care and control
of the dog.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.29 RESTRAINT OF GUARD OR ATTACK DOGS AND VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS,
NOTIFICATION, INSURANCE.
   (A)   Restraint of guard or attack dogs.
      (1)   Any person who owns, possesses, or keeps a guard or attack dog
shall house said dog within a building or a secure enclosure. The secure
enclosure shall be comprised of a chain link fence at least six feet in height,
and topped with an anti-climbing device consisting of chain links or other
materials approved by the Animal Control Officer. Access to the secure
enclosure shall be closed and locked. The fence shall be properly maintained
and escape-proof. The secure enclosure shall be at least ten feet in length at
its narrowest point, so that the dog may exercise itself.
      (2)   When outside the enclosure, or off of the property of the owner or
keeper, all guard and attack dogs shall be under restraint at all times. The
provisions of this division shall not apply to guard or attack dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies.
   (B)   Restraint of vicious or dangerous dogs.
      (1)   Any person who owns, possesses or keeps a vicious or dangerous dog
shall house said dog within a building or a secure enclosure. A secure
enclosure shall be completely surrounded by a chain link fence of no less than
eleven gauge thickness and at least six feet in height, and topped with an
anti-climbing device consisting of chain links or other materials approved by
the Animal Control Officer. Access to the secure enclosure shall be closed and
locked, and a secondary gate, in addition to the primary access, will be
maintained as a redundancy to prevent escape, unless the secure enclosure is
within the area of a second chain link fence. All fences shall be properly
maintained, and escape proof. The secure enclosure shall be at least ten feet
in length at its narrowest point, so that the dog may exercise itself.
      (2)   Whenever outside the building or secure enclosure, the vicious or
dangerous dog shall be securely muzzled, so that said dog cannot bite, but so
that neither the dog's breathing, nor vision, are restricted. Said dog shall be
restrained by an adult using two leashes of less than six feet in length, or
caged. Every person harboring a dog that was previously found to be vicious or
dangerous is charged with an affirmative duty to confine the dog in such a way
that children under ten years of age cannot access the vicious and dangerous
dog.
   (C)   Any person who owns, possesses, or keeps a guard or attack dog or a
vicious and dangerous dog shall display a sign on the premises at which said
dog is kept, warning that there is a guard or attack dog, or a vicious and
dangerous dog, on the premises. The sign shall be visible and capable of being
read from the highway, whether public or private, that abuts the premises.
   (D)   Any owner of a guard or attack or vicious or dangerous dog must
provide proof to the town clerk of liability insurance with minimum coverage of
$100,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damage
to property owned by any persons which may result from the ownership of such
animal. Said insurance shall name the City of Waterbury as an additional
insured for notification of cancellation or termination purposes only. Policy
cancellation shall constitute a violation of this section and subject the owner
to the penalties provided herein.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.30 HARBORING DOGS FOR BLOOD SPORT PROHIBITED.
   No person may own, possess, keep or train a dog with the intent:
   (A)   That the dog engage in an exhibition of fighting for amusement or
gain; or
   (B)   That the dog make unprovoked attacks upon humans or domestic animals.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.31 IMPOUNDMENT; ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter and
under state law, an Animal Control Officer or police officer may seize, impound
and humanely confine to an animal shelter or hospital, at the owner's expense,
any of the following:
      (1)   Any dog without a valid license tag;
      (2)   Any dog at large;
      (3)   Any dog constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
      (4)   Any dog that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement order
of the city's Animal Control Officer;
      (5)   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      (6)   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      (7)   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      (8)   Any dog which an Animal Control Officer, the Animal Shelter
Commission or the police has established is a threat to public health and
safety;
      (9)   Any dog that an agency or court of competent jurisdiction has
ordered impounded or destroyed; and/or
      (10)   Any dog that is considered unattended or abandoned, such as in
situations where the owner is deceased or has been arrested.
      (11)   Any dog involved in breeding activities in violation of §§
92.24 or
92.26 of this code.
   (B)   An Animal Control Officer or police officer may also in lieu of
impoundment, issue to the owner a citation. The citation shall impose upon the
owner a penalty as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code that shall be paid to the city within ten days in full
satisfaction of the assessed penalty. The citation shall inform the person
cited, in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c:
      (1)   Of the allegations against him and the amount of the fines,
penalties, costs or fees due;
      (2)   That he may contest his liability before the Animal Shelter
Commission by delivering in person or by mail written notice within ten days of
the date thereof;
      (3)   That if he does not demand such a hearing, an assessment and
judgment shall be entered against him; and
      (4)   That the judgment may issue without further notice.
   (C)   If the person who is sent notice pursuant to division (B) of this
section wishes to admit liability for any alleged violation, he may, without
requesting a hearing, pay the full amount of the fines, penalties, costs or
fees admitted to in person or by mail to the Animal Control Officer, made
payable to the City of Waterbury. Persons or entities assessed a penalty
pursuant to this section shall remit fines for said violation within 30 days of
the mailing of notice thereof. The payment shall be inadmissible in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of the person or other
person making the payment.
   (D)   Any person who does not deliver or mail written demand for a hearing
within ten days of the date of the first notice provided for in division (B)
above shall be deemed to have admitted liability, and the Animal Control
Officer shall certify the person's failure to respond to the Animal Shelter
Commission. The Animal Shelter Commission shall thereupon enter and assess the
fines, penalties, costs or fees provided for by the applicable ordinances and
shall follow the procedures set forth in division (E) below.
   (E)   Any person who requests a hearing shall be given written notice of the
date, time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be held not less than
15 days, nor more than 30 days, from the date of the mailing or notice;
provided, the Hearing Officer shall grant upon good cause shown any reasonable
request by any interested party for postponement or continuance. An original or
certified copy of the initial notice of violation issued by the issuing
official shall be filed and retained by the municipality, and shall be deemed
to be a business record within the scope of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-180 and
evidence of the facts contained therein. The presence of the issuing official
shall be required at the hearing if the person so requests. A person wishing to
contest his liability shall appear at the hearing and may present evidence in
his behalf. A designated municipal official, other than the Hearing Officer,
may present evidence on behalf of the municipality. If the person fails to
appear, the Hearing Officer may enter an assessment by default against him upon
a finding of proper notice and liability under the applicable statutes or
ordinances. The Hearing Officer may accept from the person copies of police
reports, investigatory and citation reports and other official documents by
mail and may determine thereby that the appearance of the person is
unnecessary. The Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing in the order and
form and with the methods of proof as he deems fair and appropriate. The rules
regarding the admissibility of evidence shall not be strictly applied, but all
testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. The Hearing Officer shall
announce his decision at the end of the hearing. If he determines that the
person is not liable, he shall dismiss the matter and enter his determination
in writing accordingly. If he determines that the person is liable for the
violation, he shall forthwith enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or
fees against such person as provided by the applicable ordinances.
   (F)   If the assessment is not paid on the date of its entry, the Hearing
Officer shall send by first class mail a notice of the assessment to the person
found liable and shall file, not less than 30 days, nor more than 12 months,
after the mailing, a certified copy of the notice of assessment with the clerk
of the superior court designated by the Chief Court Administrator to serve the
Waterbury area together with the appropriate entry fee. The certified copy of
the notice of assessment shall constitute a record of assessment. Within the
12-month period, assessments against the same person may be accrued and filed
as one record of assessment. The clerk shall enter judgment, in the amount of
the record of assessment and court costs equal to the entry fee, against the
person in favor of the municipality. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
general statutes, the Hearing Officer's assessment, when so entered as a
judgment, shall have the effect of a civil money judgment and a levy of
execution on the judgment may issue without further notice to the person.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.32 NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Upon impoundment of an animal, the Animal Control Division shall
within 24 hours attempt to notify the owner by telephone. If the owner is
unknown, the Division shall advertise for one day in the lost and found column
of a newspaper having a circulation in the city describing the animal,
impounding number and the phone number of the shelter.
   (B)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal 24 hours after impound shall
pay an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Said amount shall be for each day after the initial 24
hours of impoundment. Advertising fees shall be assessed as well. If an animal
is reclaimed by the owner within 24 hours of its impound, no fees shall be due.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep all
impounded dogs for a period of seven days from the date of notice to the owner
or publication of notice. Any animal not claimed by and released to its owner
within seven days after publication or notice shall become the property of the
city and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized
after all reasonable efforts to place adoptable dogs have been exhausted.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.33 ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
    In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, the Animal
Control Officer shall have the authority to order the following administrative
sanction and remedies:
   (A)   Obedience training for the dog(s) in question;
   (B)   Muzzling of a dog while off the property of the owner;
   (C)   Confinement of an animal indoors;
   (D)   Confinement of a dog in a secure enclosure;
   (E)   Reduction of the number of animals kept at any one location;
   (F)   Removal of an animal from the custody of the animal's owner or
custodian in cases of neglect or cruelty;
   (G)   The sterilization of an animal;
   (H)   A ban on maintaining other animals in the city; and
   (I)   Any other measure or sanction designed to eliminate a violation,
prevent future violations or protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.34 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of an Animal Control Officer
or other enforcement officer pursuant to this subchapter may appeal the same to
the Animal Shelter Commission by filing an appeal with the Commission within
five days of receiving notice of the decision or order of the Animal Control
Officer. The Animal Shelter Commission shall hold a hearing within 30 days of
receipt by the owner of the notice of appeal of the Animal Control Officer's
decision or order. At the hearing, the Commission shall determine de novo
whether to uphold the decision or order of the enforcement officer based upon
the evidence and testimony presented at the time of the hearing by the owner,
witnesses to any incidents which may be considered relevant, animal control
personnel, police or any other person possessing pertinent information. The
Animal Shelter Commission shall issue a written decision within 30 days of the
hearing.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   Animal Control Officers or their designees shall be the enforcement
officials for this subchapter. These officials, along with police officers,
shall have the authority to act on behalf of the city in investigating
complaints, impounding and destroying animals, issuing citations and taking
other lawful actions as required to enforce the provision of this subchapter.
It shall be a violation of this subchapter to interfere with any Animal Control
Officer or other enforcement official in the performance of his duties.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of
Chapter 92 or fails to comply with any order issued pursuant to
Chapter 92 shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be
punished by a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any fines, civil penalties or costs imposed pursuant to this
subchapter by the Animal Shelter Commission or Animal Control Officer shall be
paid within 30 days of imposition unless lawfully stayed.
   (C)   The penalties set forth herein are not intended to supplant the
penalties set forth within Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 435.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2016)
CHAPTER 93: DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
Section
Human Rights
   
93.01   City policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful discrimination practices; exemptions
   
93.04   Contract requirements
Fair Housing
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Discrimination
   
93.23   Administration
   
93.24   Enforcement
   
93.25   Investigations
   
93.26   Enforcement by private persons
   
93.27   Enforcement by the Corporation Counsel
   
93.28   Expediting proceedings
   
93.29   Interference, coercion or intimidation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Human Rights Commission, see §
31.004
HUMAN RIGHTS
§ 93.01 CITY POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to uphold the human rights of all persons
in the city, and the free exercise and enjoyment of any rights and privileges
secured by the Constitutions and laws of the United States and the city. This
policy shall provide that each person regardless of race, color, sex, age,
religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status,
family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or
source of income is of public concern, as discrimination creates strife,
hostility and unrest, threatens or impairs the rights and privileges of
individuals, and deprives individuals of the benefits of a free and open
society. Discrimination that deprives individuals of equal opportunities is
unjust and results in serious injury to the public safety, health and welfare
of the city.
   (B)   Accordingly, it is the policy of the city to safeguard the equal
opportunities of all individuals in the city in accordance with their
abilities, regardless of their race, color, sex, age, religious creed,
disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status, family status, prior
psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or source of income and to
prevent discrimination against the individuals in the provision of city
services and in employment, housing and real estate, education, credit,
bonding, insurance and public accommodations.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as supporting or
advocating any particular religious view or lifestyle. To the contrary, it is
the intent of this subchapter that all persons be treated fairly and equally,
and it is the expressed intent of this subchapter to guarantee to all of the
citizens fair and equal treatment under law.
(1967 Code, § 2-47) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Housing generally, see
Chapter 154
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Any agency, authority, board, commission or department of the City
of Waterbury.
   CHAIRPERSON. The chairperson of the Human Rights Commission.
   COMMISSION. The Human Rights Commission of the City of Waterbury.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Human Rights Commission, appointed pursuant to
this subchapter.
   COMPLAINANT. Any person alleging discrimination under the procedures
described in this subchapter.
   COURT. The superior court or any judge of the court.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any act, policy or procedure forbidden by the state and
Federal Civil Rights Statute that is applicable. The term shall mean any
difference in treatment based on race, color, religion, creed, national origin
or ancestry, and shall include segregation and separation.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by an employer, but shall not include any
person employed by his parents, parents-in-law, spouse or child, or a person
employed in the domestic service of another.
   EMPLOYER. The City of Waterbury and the departments, agencies, commissions
and officers thereof, and any person, business or corporation with three or
more persons in his or its employ.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The executive officer of the Commission who directs the
day to day planning and activities of the Commission and the operations of
programs and policies developed by the Commissioners.
   INVESTIGATOR. Any agent of the Commission, whether paid or unpaid, who is
authorized by the Commission, or the Executive Director, to investigate charges
filed under these rules.
   ORDINANCE. This subchapter.
   RESPONDENT. Any person charged with discrimination under these rules.
(1967 Code, § 2-47.1) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION PRACTICES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this subchapter for the city or the Waterbury Department of Education, or any
of their agencies, departments, subdivisions or employees, or any private
employer or agency, to discriminate against any person in the provision of
goods, services, facilities, employment, housing or real estate transactions,
education or other opportunities because of the race, color, sex, age,
religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status,
family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or
source of income of the persons.
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful practice for the city or the Waterbury
Department of Education, or any of their agencies, departments, subdivisions,
or employees to commit any act prohibited in this subchapter which would be
unlawful if committed by a private person.
   (C)   It shall be an unlawful practice to deny any person or group equal
access to public or private services in employment, housing, education,
recreation or other areas where the denial is based on limited English language
skills.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be an unlawful practice for an employer directly or
indirectly to refuse to hire or employ, to classify or upgrade, or to bar or to
discharge from employment, training or apprenticeship, or otherwise
discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges of
employment, including compensation, because of the race, color, sex, age,
religious creed, physical handicap, national origin or ancestry, marital
status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military
status or source of income of such individual, unless based on a bona fide
occupational qualification. An employer who asserts that a discriminatory
practice is justified because of a bona fide occupational qualification as
defined under Conn. Gen. Stat. Title 46a shall have the burden of showing that
the discrimination is in fact a necessary result of a bona fide occupational
qualification and that there exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying
the occupational qualifications.
      (2)   The following practices shall be exempt from the operation of this
section:
         (a)   Employment practices of an employer of fewer than three persons;
         (b)   Employment of an individual by his parent, child or spouse; and
         (c)   The following practices shall not be deemed unlawful: employment
programs designed to affect affirmative action by giving special preference to
racial minorities or veterans, provided, the programs shall not discriminate on
the basis of other discriminatory criteria as set forth in §
93.01.
   (E)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any employment agency, directly
or indirectly, to fail or refuse to classify properly or refer for employment
or otherwise discriminate against any individual because of the race, color,
sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, marital
status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military
status or source of income of the individual. An employment agency that
specializes in the recruitment and placement of elderly or disabled employees
shall be exempt from the operation of this section with respect to the
specialized services; provided that, the services shall not discriminate among
the elderly or disabled on the basis of other discriminatory criteria as set
forth in §
93.01 hereof.
   (F)   It shall be an unlawful practice for a labor organization directly or
indirectly to refuse to admit to membership, training, apprenticeship,
classification or to otherwise discriminate against any individual because of
race, color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or
ancestry, marital status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health
care, military status or source of income of the individual.
   (G)   It shall be an unlawful practice for an employer, employment agency or
labor organization directly or indirectly to advertise or otherwise publicize
that any individual is unwelcome or not employable because of the race, color,
sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, marital
status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military
status or source of income of the individual, unless based on a bona fide
occupational qualification or one of the exceptions set forth in this
subchapter.
   (H)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person directly or indirectly
to refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with any person or to set
discriminatory terms or conditions with respect to a real estate transaction
with any person or to advertise or otherwise publicize that any person is
unwelcome or may not enter into a real estate transaction because of the race,
color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry,
marital status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care,
military status or source of income of the person or of a person residing with
the person. This section does not create an affirmative duty to remove barriers
for the disabled in excess of the requirements of existing laws and ordinances,
but reasonable accommodation shall be made to enable the provisions of housing
for a handicapped person.
      (1)   The following practices shall be exempt from the operation of this
section:
         (a)   The leasing or renting of a room or rooms within a dwelling or
apartment which is occupied by the lessor as his residence and in which the
roomer or boarder must pass through the space or a portion thereof occupied by
the lessor in order to gain access to the room or rooms thus let or rented;
         (b)   The leasing for renting of a single apartment in a two-, three-
or four-family dwelling, the other residential unit of which is occupied by the
lessor as his residence; and
         (c)   The leasing, rental or other provision with or without fee,
space within a church, temple, synagogue, religious school or other facility
used primarily for religious purpose.
      (2)   The following practices shall not be deemed unlawful:
         (a)   The establishment of government-sponsored housing programs
operated either directly by government agencies or indirectly through
government subsidization, and regulation, which programs are designed to assist
the elderly, disabled or economically disadvantaged individuals; provided that,
the programs shall not discriminate among the elderly, disabled or economically
disadvantaged on the basis of other discriminatory criteria as set forth in §
93.01 hereof;
         (b)   The establishment of housing set aside for and limited to the
elderly or the disabled, provided that the establishment shall not discriminate
on the basis of other discriminatory criteria as set forth in §
93.01 hereof;
         (c)   The establishment of same sex dormitories or portions thereof by
educational facilities, provided that the establishment shall not discriminate
on the basis of other discriminatory criteria as set forth in §
93.01 hereof; and
         (d)   The establishment of a hospital, convent, monastery, shelter,
asylum or residential facility for the care and lodging of persons in need of
special medical, rehabilitative, social or psychologic support, including, but
not limited to, halfway houses, drug treatment centers, detoxification
facilities, shelters for the homeless and the like.
   (I)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any bank, financial institution
or any other credit-granting or approving institution or person, including a
retail store that sells goods or services on credit, directly or indirectly to
discriminate in the granting, reporting, approval or extension of any form of
loan or credit to any person because of the race, color, sex, age, religious
creed, disability, limited English literacy, level of education, national
origin or ancestry, marital status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment,
health care, military status or source of income of the person. It shall not be
an unlawful practice under this section to establish or review the credit
worthiness as amount and source of income, employment history and credit
references.
   (J)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any insurance company, insurance
agent or person engaged in the service of providing insurance to refuse to
insure any person or discriminate in the terms of insuring any person because
of race, color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, limited English
literacy, level of education, national origin or ancestry, marital status,
family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or
source of income of the person, unless based on a bona fide actuarial
determined insurance factor, such as the age or health of the person, that
affects the risk for which insurance is being sought. In accordance with
federal court cases, it is the intention of this section that actuarial data be
gender-neutral.
   (K)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any bonding institution or person
engaged in the service of providing financial and performance bonds to refuse
to bond any person or discriminate in the terms of bonding because of the race,
color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, limited English literacy, level
of education, national origin or ancestry, marital status, family status, prior
psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or source of income of the
person.
   (L)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any educational facility directly
or indirectly to fail or refuse to admit, or to curtail or terminate admission
to, or to discriminate in the terms or conditions of educational services,
programs, opportunities or curriculum offered by it to any person because of
the race, color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or
ancestry, marital status, family status, prior psychiatric treatment, health
care, military status or source of income of the person. The following
practices shall not be deemed unlawful:
      (1)   Educational programs or policies designed to effect affirmative
action by giving special preference to women, racial minorities or veterans;
provided that, the programs or policies shall not discriminate among women,
racial minorities or veterans on the basis of other discriminatory criteria as
set forth in §
93.01 hereof; and
      (2)   The establishment by an educational facility of special programs
designed to assist or provide special training for the disabled, the elderly,
individuals not fluent in English, or the economically disadvantaged; provided
that, the selection shall not discriminate among the disabled, elderly,
individuals not fluent in English, or the economically disadvantaged on the
basis of other discriminatory criteria asset forth in §
93.01 hereof.
   (M)    It shall be an unlawful practice for any person that owns, leases,
rents, operates, manages or in any manner controls a public accommodation
directly or indirectly or who provides a public service, to withhold, deny,
curtail or in any manner limit the full use of a public accommodation by any
person, or discriminate against the person with respect to the use of the
accommodation, because of the race, color, sex, age, religious creed,
disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status, family status, prior
psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or source of income of the
person. It shall be an unlawful practice for any person directly or indirectly
to advertise or otherwise publicize that any person is unwelcome to the full
use of any public accommodation because of the race, color, disability or
source of income of the person. The following practice shall not be deemed
unlawful: the designation of a public accommodation for the exclusive or
preferential use of the elderly or the disabled.
   (N)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to harass, intimidate,
threaten, assault or otherwise discriminate against any person in or upon any
accommodation because of national origin or ancestry, marital status, family
status, prior psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or source of
income of the person, or attempt to do so.
   (O)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to commit any act
forbidden by this subchapter for any reason that would not have been asserted,
wholly or partially, but for the race, color, sex, age, religious creed,
disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status, family status, prior
psychiatric treatment, health care, military status or source of income of any
person.
   (P)   The Commission shall take all necessary steps to ensure that state
laws regarding the rights of ex-offenders shall be enforced within the city.
   (Q)   The Commission shall take all necessary steps to prevent
discrimination against those infected by the HIV virus within the city. The
actions shall not be construed as to impede the lawful actions of public health
authorities to protect the health of the public and the safety of health care
workers.
   (R)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to aid, abet, incite,
compel, coerce or conspire in the commission of any of the acts forbidden by
this subchapter or to attempt to do so.
   (S)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to discharge, expel,
evict, harass, retaliate in any manner or otherwise take action against any
person because the person has opposed any act forbidden by this subchapter or
because the person has filed a complaint, testified or assisted in any
proceeding under this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 2-48) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any contract entered into by the city or the Waterbury Schools, or any
of their agencies, departments, or subdivisions shall contain a covenant by the
contractor and his subcontractors not to violate this subchapter. Breach of
this covenant shall be regarded as a material breach of the contract. This
section shall not impair the obligation of any presently existing contract.
   (B)   The city, every city contractor and subcontractor, every employer with
100 or more employees, every owner of an apartment building or housing complex
of 15 or more units, every employment agency, every realtor and real estate
agency, and every apartment or roommate service shall prominently post and keep
posted the following notice at its place of business or in the apartment
building or housing complex, (The blanks in the model shall be properly filled
with the address and telephone number of the offices of the Commission):
      "Discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religious creed,
disability, national origin or ancestry, marital status, family status,
military status, or source of income is unlawful in the City of Waterbury."
   Waterbury Human Rights Commission
                                    Waterbury, CT.
                                                          
(1967 Code, § 2-48.1) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989) Penalty, see §
93.99
FAIR HOUSING
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, consistent with federal and state
laws, for fair housing throughout the city.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 1-1) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Mayor of the City of Waterbury.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. As outlined under §§ 804 through 806 of the
Fair Housing Act (Pub. L. No. 90-284), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3604 through 3606,
defined as an act that is unlawful in the sale or rental of housing; an act
that is unlawful in the financing of housing; an act that is unlawful in the
provision of brokerage services.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receiverships and
fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, sublease, to let or otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   UNIT. Any dwelling which is habitable and occupied as or designed or
intended for occupancy as a residence as per requisites of the Waterbury
Housing Code.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 1-2) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.22 DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing. In compliance with §
804 of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3604, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after making a bona fide offer, or to refuse
to negotiate for the sale of or otherwise make unavailable or deny a unit to
any person because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a unit or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, religion or national
origin;
      (3)   Take, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
unit, indicating any preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any unit is not available for inspection, sale or rental
when the unit is in fact so available; or
      (5)   For profit, induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any unit by representation regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion or
national origin.
   (B)   Discrimination in the financing of housing. In compliance with § 805
of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3605, it shall be unlawful for any
bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other corporation,
association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in
the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial
assistance to a person applying thereto for the purpose of purchasing,
construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a unit, or to discriminate
against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms
or conditions of the loan or other financial assistance because of race, color,
religion, neighborhood of unit, or national origin of the person or persons
associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance
for the purpose of the loan or financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupant of the unit or units in
relation to which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given.
   (C)   Discrimination in the provisions of brokerage services. In compliance
with § 806 of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3606, it shall be
unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate broker's organization or other services,
organizations or facility relating to the business of selling or renting units,
or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of the access,
membership or participation on account of race, color, religion or national
origin.
   (D)   Exemption. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a religious
organization, association or society, or any nonprofit institution or
organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a
religious organization, association or society, from listing the sale, rental
or occupancy to persons, unless membership in the religion is restricted on
account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall anything in this
subchapter prohibit a private club, not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodging which it owns and
operates, for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from giving preferences to its
members.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 1-3) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority of and responsibility for administering this subchapter
shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of his functions, duties
and powers to employees of the office of Community Development, Human Relations
Commission or to employees of such boards with respect to investigating,
conciliatory, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this subchapter. The
persons to whom such delegations are made with respect to hearing functions,
duties and powers shall be appointed and shall serve in various departments.
Insofar as possible, conciliation meetings shall be held in a strategically
located area of the city. The Chief Executive Officer shall, by rule, prescribe
the rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing examiners, to other
officers in the appropriate department, to boards of officers, or to himself as
shall be appropriate.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purpose of this subchapter and shall cooperate
with the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer shall:
      (1)   Make studies with respect to the nature and extent of
discriminatory housing practices in the city;
      (2)   Publish and disseminate reports, recommendations and information
derived from such studies;
      (3)   Cooperate with and render technical assistance to public or private
agencies, organizations and institutions which are formulating or carrying on
programs to prevent, to eliminate discriminatory housing practices;
      (4)   Administer the programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the policies of this
subchapter;
      (5)   Ensure that real estate agents and contractors follow the use of
the city's approved affirmative marketing program; private developers and real
estate agents shall use H.U.D. affirmative and marketing as a condition for
obtaining local licenses and building permits; and
      (6)   Designate by formal appointment the departments and/or individuals
to be given full investigative powers under this subchapter.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 1-4) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 810 of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3610, any
person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing project or
who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a discriminating housing
practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person aggrieved") may file a
complaint with the Chief Executive Officer of the city. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Chief
Executive Officer requires and shall be sworn to under oath. Upon receipt of
such a complaint, the Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same
to the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the
alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a
complaint, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve it. If
the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaint, he shall proceed
to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by
informal methods, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the
course of the informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a
subsequent proceeding under this subchapter without the written consent of the
person concerned. Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make
public any information in violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of
failure to assist the Chief Executive Officer in the official performance of
his duties and shall, upon conviction, be subject to provisions of the
penalties of this subchapter as per this code.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) shall be filed within 30 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory act are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended
at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him and
with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be granted whenever
it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time.
Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   The State Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities monitors the
state fair housing laws and provides rights and remedies for alleged
discriminatory housing practices under § 53 of the Connecticut Public
Accommodations Statute which are equivalent to the rights and remedies provided
in this subchapter; the Chief Executive Officer shall notify the State
Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities of any complaint filed under this
subchapter which appears to constitute a violation of the state fair housing
law and this subchapter, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the
complaint. The Chief Executive Officer, along with the Commission on Human
Rights and Opportunities, shall take further action on a joint cooperative
basis, under the circumstances of the particular case where the protection of
the rights of the parties or the interests of justice requires the action. If
the Chief Executive Officer declines to resolve the complaint, under division
(A) of this section, he shall refer the complaint to the State Commission on
Human Rights and Opportunities.
   (D)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer or within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference, the
Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with
this subchapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, commence
a civil action in any appropriate United States District Court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this subchapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the
complaint; provided that, no civil action may be brought in any United States
District Court if the person aggrieved has a judicial remedy under the state
fair housing law or the rights and remedies granted under this subchapter which
are substantially equivalent to rights and remedies under § 810(d) of the Fair
Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3610. The actions may be brought without regard
to the amount in controversy in any United States District Court.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual in either federal, state or
local courts pursuant to this section shall come to trial, the Chief Executive
Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliances.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-1) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.25 INVESTIGATIONS. 
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer or his
duly appointed representative shall have access at all reasonable times to
premises, records, documents, individuals and other evidence as possible
sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such materials and to take
and record the statements of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the
furtherance of the investigation, provided the Chief Executive Officer first
complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may instruct the city's
legal department to secure and issue (City Sheriff) subpoenas of the materials,
or the appearance of the persons, and may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if the subpoena or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a
civil action in the United States District Court.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the legal department. Subpoenas issued
at the request of the respondent shall show on their face the name and address
of the respondent and shall state that they were issued at his request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in the United States district court. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of the respondent shall be paid by him.
   (D)   (1)   Within five days after the service of a subpoena upon any
person, the person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify
the subpoena.
      (2)   The Chief Executive Officer, in concurrence with the legal
department, shall grant the petition if it is found that the subpoena requires
appearance or attendance of an unreasonable time or place, that it requires
production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation,
that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be
produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reasons.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the United States District Court for the district in
which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or
transacts business.
   (F)   The corporation counsel shall conduct all litigation in which the
Chief Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus curiae pursuant to
this subchapter.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-2) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.26 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS. 
   (A)   (1)   In compliance with rights granted by §§ 803 through 806 of the
Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3603 through 3606, enforcement by private
persons may be enforced in the United States District Court without regard to
the amount of controversy.
      (2)   A civil action may be commenced within 30 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that, the court
shall continue the civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
93.24(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer and the State
Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities are likely to result in
satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in
the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and which practice forms the
basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that, any sale,
encumbrances or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order
issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrance or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the
filing of the complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   (B)   (1)   Upon application by the plaintiff, and in such circumstances as
the court may deem just, the court in which a civil action under this
subchapter has been brought may appoint an attorney for the plaintiff and may
authorize the commencement of a civil action upon proper showing without the
payment of fees, costs or security.
      (2)   The court may do likewise to the extent not inconsistent with the
law or procedures of the state or the city.
   (C)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided that, the plaintiff, in the opinion of the
court, is not financially able to assume the attorney's fees.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-3) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.27 ENFORCEMENT BY THE CORPORATION COUNSEL. 
   In compliance with § 813 of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 3613,
whenever the corporation counsel has reasonable cause to believe that any
person or group of persons is engaged in a pattern or practice of resistance to
the full enjoyment of any rights granted by this subchapter, or that any group
of persons has been denied any of the rights granted by this subchapter and the
denial raises an issue of general importance, he may bring a civil action in
the District Court by filing with it a complaint setting forth the facts and
requesting the preventive relief, including an application for a permanent or
temporary injunction, restraining order or other order against the person or
persons responsible for the pattern or practice or denial of rights, as he
deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights granted by this
subchapter.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-4) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.28 EXPEDITING PROCEEDINGS.
   The District Court in which a proceeding is instituted under the enforcement
actions of this subchapter shall assign the case for hearing at the earliest
practicable date and cause the case to be in every way expedited.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-5) (Ord. passed 9-6-1977)
§ 93.29 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   In compliance with § 817 of the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §
3617, it shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with
any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or provided by
applicable sections of this subchapter.
   (B)   This section may be enforced by appropriate civil actions.
(1967 Code, Appendix C, § 2-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   It shall be a crime punishable by a fine as set forth in the schedule
of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or the maximum under state law, per violation, to commit
any unlawful practice under §
93.03.
(1967 Code, § 2-48(t)) (Ord. passed 3-10-1989; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference; definitions
   
94.02   Modifications to Fire Prevention Code
   
94.03   Permit required for brush fires
   
94.04   Fireworks prohibited; requirements for public displays
   
94.05   Sand dikes prohibited
   
94.06   Storing oil drums near buildings
   
94.07   Rubbish accumulations constituting fire hazard
Fire Extinguishers
   
94.20   Definitions
   
94.21   Purpose of regulations
   
94.22   Administration; powers and duties of the Fire Department
   
94.23   Purpose of portable fire extinguishers
   
94.24   Certain standards deemed to be minimum regulations
   
94.25   Testing and filling
   
94.26   Approval of extinguishers prerequisite to sale or lease
   
94.27   Physical distribution requirements
   
94.28   Persons who may service fire extinguishers; identification cards
   
94.29   Tags to be affixed to serviced units
   
94.30   Exceptions to provisions
   
94.31   Prohibited acts
   
94.32   Authority of Fire Department as to licenses, permits and certificates
   
94.33   Annual report of firms servicing fire extinguishers
   
94.34   Record of licensees, permittees and registrants to be kept by Fire
Department
   
94.35   Grounds for refusal to issue or renew, suspension and revocation
   
94.36   Restoration after suspension or revocation
   
94.37   Certificates of registration for firms servicing fire extinguishers
   
94.38   Licenses for persons servicing fire extinguishers
   
94.39   Permits for apprentices servicing fire extinguishers
   
94.40   Hydrostatic testing certificates
Administration and Enforcement
   
94.50   Enforcement of chapter
   
94.51   Bureau of Fire Prevention; Fire Marshal
   
94.52   Reports
   
94.53   Board of Appeals; appeals
   
94.54   Licenses issued by Fire Marshal
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Power of Board of Aldermen related to fire protection, see Charter § 3A-2(g)
   Fire Department, see Charter §§ 6C-6 and 7D-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, a
certain code known as the Waterbury Fire Prevention Code. Copies of the code
have been and are now on file in the office of the City Clerk and the same are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city.
(1967 Code, § 7-1)
   (B)   For the purpose of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by division (A) of
this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CORPORATION COUNSEL. The attorney for the city.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Waterbury.
(1967 Code, § 7-2)
(Ord. passed 4-19-1965; Ord. passed 7-15-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection generally, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 29-292 through 29-370,
21a-12
   Fire safety, see Fire Safety Code published by the State Fire Marshal
§ 94.02 MODIFICATIONS TO FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Fire Marshal of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify
any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing
by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided
that, the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The particular of the modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the Fire Marshal thereon shall be entered upon the
records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1967 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1965)
§ 94.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BRUSH FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall ignite any brush fire without first having obtained
from the Fire Marshal a permit for such purpose. In passing upon the
application, the Fire Marshal shall consider weather conditions, the need for
igniting the fire and the amount of supervision available.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to grant or refuse the permits
in his discretion, depending upon the weather conditions at the time of
application.
(1967 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   (A)   The sale, discharge, firing or use of fire crackers, rockets,
torpedoes, Roman candles, fire balloons, fireworks, pistols, canes, cannons or
other appliances using blank cartridges, or using caps, containing chlorate of
potash mixture or any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or,
combination of substances designed or intended to produce visible or audible
pyrotechnic effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation is
hereby prohibited; provided that, nothing herein shall prevent municipal
displays of fireworks with the permission of the Mayor and the Chief of the
Fire Department and provided also that nothing shall prohibit the sale of
pistols, revolvers or other firearms in compliance with the laws of the state.
(1967 Code, § 13-7)
   (B)   No person engaged in the business of displaying or exhibiting
fireworks shall by himself, or his agents, discharge, fire off, explode or
display fireworks at any public exhibition or exhibitions thereof unless he has
on file, with the City Clerk, a bond in the penal sum of not less than $1,000
for such to cover the losses, damages or injuries, that might ensue to person
or property by reason of the public exhibition or exhibitions.
(1967 Code, § 13-8)
   (C)   The Mayor shall issue licenses for fireworks displays.
(1967 Code, § 10-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
Statutory reference:
   Bond required for display of fireworks, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-358
   Fireworks generally, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 29-356 through 29-366
§ 94.05 SAND DIKES PROHIBITED.
   No sand dikes for bulk tanks containing flammable liquids shall be permitted
within the city. All dikes shall be of reinforced concrete.
(1967 Code, § 7-13) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 STORING OIL DRUMS NEAR BUILDINGS.
   On and after November 1, 1966, no person shall store, keep, use or maintain
oil drums on any porch, veranda or any other location immediately adjoining any
building or home. The landowner shall be responsible for the provision of
adequate facilities for storing of oil drums.
(1967 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. passed 6-22-1966) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 RUBBISH ACCUMULATIONS CONSTITUTING FIRE HAZARD.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Fire Marshal, any rubbish accumulates so as
to constitute a fire hazard, it may be removed by the Fire Marshal at the
expense of the owner of the property on which the accumulation exists.
(1967 Code, § 7-15)
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
§ 94.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRM. Any person, partnership, corporation or association.
   HYDROSTATIC TESTING. Pressure testing by appropriate hydrostatic methods
for:
      (1)   Fire extinguisher shells which are not Interstate Commerce
Commission specification compressed gas cylinders;
      (2)   Interstate Commerce Commission specification compressed gas
cylinders used for or with fire extinguishers; and
      (3)   Certain hose assemblies.
   PORTABLE. An extinguisher designed for and capable of being readily moved
from place to place.
   SERVICE and SERVICING. Servicing portable fire extinguishers includes
testing, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, filling, charging, refilling and
recharging as described in the National Fire Protection Association for the
Maintenance and Use of Portable Fire Extinguishers (No. 10A, most recent
edition).
(1967 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.21 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the sale and servicing of
portable fire extinguishers in the city.
(1967 Code, § 7-17) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.22 ADMINISTRATION; POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The administration of this subchapter is vested in the Fire
Department, which shall have the power to issue the proper rules and
regulations to administer this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 7-18)
   (B)   The Fire Department shall exercise, subject to the provisions of the
enabling act, the following functions, powers and duties:
      (1)   To formulate and administer such rules and regulations as it may
determine necessary for the protection and preservation of life and property in
controlling:
         (a)   The registration of firms engaging in the business of servicing
portable fire extinguishers;
         (b)   The registration of firms engaged in the business of
hydrostatically testing Interstate Commerce Commission specification gas
cylinders used for fire extinguishers;
         (c)   The examination of persons applying for a license to service
portable fire extinguishers;
         (d)   The licensing of persons to service portable fire extinguishers;
         (e)   The requirements for servicing of portable fire extinguishers;
and
         (f)   The requirements for physical distribution of portable fire
extinguishers.
      (2)   Evaluate the qualifications of firms or individuals for a
certificate of registration to engage in the business of servicing portable
fire extinguishers;
      (3)   Conduct examinations to ascertain the qualifications and fitness of
applicants for a license to service portable fire extinguishers;
      (4)   Issue certificates of registration for those firms that qualify
under this subchapter to engage in the business of servicing portable fire
extinguishers, and issue licenses, apprentice permits and hydrostatic testing
certificates to persons who qualify to service portable fire extinguishers; and
      (5)   To require at least annual servicing of portable fire
extinguishers.
   (C)   In adopting such regulations, the Fire Department shall consider as
evidence of generally accepted safety standards the latest editions of National
Fire Protection Association Standard No. 10 (USASI Z112.1) and Recommended Good
Practice No. 10A, and the Methods for Hydrostatic Testing of Compressed Gas
Cylinders, published by the Compressed Gas Association, Inc.
   (D)   In exercising the functions and duties of this subchapter, the Fire
Department may appoint a Fire Extinguisher Advisory Council composed of persons
who are experienced and knowledgeable in and about the business of the fire
services, fire extinguisher manufacturing, fire insurance inspection and
underwriting, and fire extinguisher servicing or who are members of a fire
protection association or an industrial safety association.
(1967 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.23 PURPOSE OF PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Portable fire extinguishers are designed to cope with fire of limited size
and are necessary even though the property is equipped with automatic
sprinklers, standpipe and hose, or other fixed protection equipment.
(1967 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.24 CERTAIN STANDARDS DEEMED TO BE MINIMUM REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the Standard of the National Fire
Protection Association for the Installation of Portable Fire Extinguishers
(NFPA UCASI Standard Z112, most recent edition) and the recommended good
practices of National Fire Protection Association for the Maintenance and Use
of Portable Fire Extinguishers (No. 10A, most recent edition), shall be
considered minimum regulations.
(1967 Code, § 7-21) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.25 TESTING AND FILLING.
   Testing and filling of portable fire extinguishers shall be conducted in
accordance with safety standards approved by the Fire Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-22) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.26 APPROVAL OF EXTINGUISHERS PREREQUISITE TO SALE OR LEASE.
   No portable fire extinguisher shall be sold or leased in this city unless it
was approved, labeled or listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory,
such as Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc., Factory Mutual Engineering
Corporation or any other laboratory which is approved by the Fire Department as
qualified to test portable fire extinguishers.
(1967 Code, § 7-23) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The physical distribution requirements of this subchapter are not
intended to abrogate current regulations if the regulations are equal to or
higher than the requirements called for in this subchapter, or to abrogate any
regulations for applications and occupancies not covered by this subchapter.
   (B)   The number and type of fire extinguishers required to protect a
property shall be no less than the requirements set forth in the publication
Standards for the Installation of Portable Fire Extinguishers, National Fire
Protection Association No. 10 (USASI Z112.1 - most recent edition).
   (C)   Fire extinguishers which have been converted from one type of
classification to another type of classification shall not be acceptable in
meeting the requirements of this subchapter. The extinguishers shall be removed
from service.
(1967 Code, § 7-24) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 PERSONS WHO MAY SERVICE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   A firm that has been issued a certificate of registration under this
subchapter by the Fire Department to engage in the business of servicing
portable fire extinguishers may actually do such servicing only through an
employee, agent or servant who holds a valid license issued under this
subchapter.
   (B)   A person who has been issued a license under this subchapter to
service portable fire extinguishers must be an employee, agent or servant of a
firm that holds a certificate of registration or the licensee himself must hold
a certificate of registration issued under this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 7-25)
   (C)   Each serviceperson and apprentice shall be issued an identification
card to be carried on his person while carrying out the testing or servicing
function.
(1967 Code, § 7-26)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.29 TAGS TO BE AFFIXED TO SERVICED UNITS.
   (A)   When a licensee under this subchapter services a portable fire
extinguisher, he shall affix a tag to the extinguisher that, at least, states:
      (1)   The month and year he performed the service;
      (2)   The type of extinguisher he serviced;
      (3)   His name and license number; and
      (4)   The name and certificate of registration number of his firm.
   (B)   When a person not subject to licensing under this subchapter services
a portable fire extinguisher, he shall affix a tag to it that states:
      (1)   The month and year when the service was performed;
      (2)   The type of extinguisher serviced; and
      (3)   The name of the person performing the service and name and address
of his employer or principal.
(1967 Code, § 7-27) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.30 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   The activity of filling or charging a portable fire extinguisher prior to
its initial sale by its manufacturer shall not be subject to this subchapter.
Any firm which maintains its own fully-equipped and specially staffed fire
prevention, protection and fire extinguisher servicing department, approved by
a certificate issued to the firm by the City Fire Marshal's office, insofar as
such activities are in its own behalf, shall not be subject to the registration
provisions of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.31 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Any person engaging in the following acts shall be guilty of an offense and
subject to penalties set forth in §
94.99 of this chapter:
   (A)   Engaging in the business of servicing portable fire extinguishers
without a current certificate of registration;
   (B)   Engaging in the business of servicing portable fire extinguishers
without a current license;
   (C)   Servicing portable fire extinguishers as an apprentice without a
current apprentice permit;
   (D)   Performing hydrostatic testing of Interstate Commerce Commission
specification compressed gas cylinders used for or with fire extinguishers
without a current hydrostatic testing certificate;
   (E)   The obtaining of or an attempt to obtain a certificate of registration
or a license by fraudulent misrepresentation; and
   (F)   Servicing or selling portable fire extinguishers contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter or the rules and regulations formulated and
administered under the authority of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT AS TO LICENSES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   The Fire Department shall have the authority to conduct hearings on
proceedings to suspend, revoke or refuse issuance or renewal of licenses,
apprentice permits, hydrostatic testing certificates or certificates of
registration issued under this subchapter or application therefor, and to
suspend, revoke, refuse to renew or refuse to issue the license, apprentice
permit, hydrostatic testing certificate or certificate of registration.
(1967 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.33 ANNUAL REPORT OF FIRMS SERVICING FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   The holder of a certificate of registration under this subchapter shall
report annually the name, address and the license number of each licensee in
his employ to the Fire Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-31) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.34 RECORD OF LICENSEES, PERMITTEES AND REGISTRANTS TO BE KEPT BY FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Department shall keep a list of the names, addresses and the number
of the license, apprentice permit and hydrostatic testing certificate of each
person licensed under this subchapter and a list of the names, addresses and
certificate of registration numbers issued to each firm under this subchapter.
The record of all numbers of licenses, apprentice permits, hydrostatic testing
certificates and certificates of registration shall be available for review by
any person desiring to review the same.
(1967 Code, § 7-32) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.35 GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Fire Department shall either refuse to issue or renew or may suspend or
revoke any certificate of registration, license, apprentice permit or
hydrostatic testing certificate for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Conviction of a felony, as shown by a certified copy of the record of
the court of conviction;
   (B)   Any violation as listed in the enabling act;
   (C)   Having obtained or having attempted to obtain a license, apprentice
permit, hydrostatic testing certificate or certificate of registration by
fraudulent misrepresentation;
   (D)   Practice in the trade, or an attempt to practice in the trade, of fire
extinguisher service or sales, or both by fraudulent misrepresentations;
   (E)   Gross malpractice or gross incompetency in sales or service of fire
extinguishers;
   (F)   Advertising fire extinguisher sales or service by means of knowingly
false or deceptive statements;
   (G)   Failure to pay the original or annual renewal license, apprentice
permit, hydrostatic testing certificate or certificate of registration fee
provided in this subchapter;
   (H)   Violation of any provision of the enabling act as formulated and
administered by the Fire Department or violation of any provision of this
subchapter; or
   (I)   Failure to dispose of waste chemical in approved safety containers and
removed to licensee's place of business.
(1967 Code, § 7-33) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.36 RESTORATION AFTER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   At any time after the suspension or revocation of any certificate of
registration, license, apprentice permit or hydrostatic testing certificate,
the Fire Department may restore it to the accused person upon written approval
of the hearing board, without examination.
(1967 Code, § 7-34) (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.37 CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION FOR FIRMS SERVICING FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   Each firm engaged in the business of servicing portable fire
extinguishers in the city shall be required to have a certificate of
registration issued by the Fire Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-35)
   (B)   Any firm that desires to engage in the business of servicing portable
fire extinguishers shall make a written verified application to the Fire
Department on forms provided for a certificate of registration for each
separate location of the firm where service is performed. The application must
be signed by the sole proprietor, or each partner, or by an officer of the
corporation.
(1967 Code, § 7-36)
   (C)   If the Fire Department finds, after reviewing the applicant's record,
that the granting or renewing of a certificate of registration would not be
contrary to public safety and welfare, it shall issue or renew the certificate
of registration authorizing the applicant to engage in the business of
servicing portable fire extinguishers, provided the requisite fee has been
paid. The Fire Department shall give each certificate of registration an
identifying number.
(1967 Code, § 7-37)
   (D)   Application for renewal of a certificate of registration shall be made
annually by every firm holding an existing certificate of registration and be
accompanied by the required annual fee.
(1967 Code, § 7-40)
   (E)   A certificate of registration issued pursuant to this section is not
transferable. Any firm changing the form under which it does business must
apply for a new certificate of registration.
(1967 Code, § 7-39)
   (F)   The Fire Department shall withhold issuing or renewing a certificate
of registration until provided with proof that the applicant has a minimum of
$500,000 public liability insurance which will protect the public (both from
property damage and personal injury) from the negligence of the applicant in
and about the business of servicing portable fire extinguishers.
(1967 Code, § 7-41)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.38 LICENSES FOR PERSONS SERVICING FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   Each person employed by a firm in the business of servicing portable
fire extinguishers in the city shall be required to have a license issued by
the Fire Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-42)
   (B)   Verified application for a license required by this section shall be
made in writing on forms provided by the Fire Department, accompanied by the
prescribed fee.
(1967 Code, § 7-43)
   (C)   The Fire Department shall require applicants for original licenses to
pass an examination. This examination shall be written and may be supplemented
by practical tests or demonstration deemed necessary to determine the
applicant's knowledge and ability to service portable fire extinguishers.
Notice of time and place of examination shall be given at least 30 days prior
to the examination. Whenever the Fire Department is satisfied that substantial
justice has not been done in an examination, it may order a reexamination by
the same or other examiners. Examinations shall be held at such places and at
such times as the Fire Department shall determine. At least two examinations
per year shall be conducted.
(1967 Code, § 7-44)
   (D)   Upon successful completion of examination, the Fire Department shall
issue a license having an identifying number.
(1967 Code, § 7-45)
   (E)   Verified application for renewal of a license under this section shall
be made annually by each licensee.
(1967 Code, § 7-47)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
§ 94.39 PERMITS FOR APPRENTICES SERVICING FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   Each person servicing portable fire extinguishers in the city as an
apprentice shall be required to have an apprentice permit issued by the Fire
Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-48)
   (B)   (1)   Any person desiring to service fire extinguishers as an
apprentice shall make a written verified application.
      (2)   This application must be signed by the prospective employer who
holds a valid certificate of registration.
      (3)   This apprentice permit must be applied for on forms provided by the
Fire Department and the prescribed fee must be paid.
(1967 Code, § 7-49)
   (C)   The Fire Department shall give each apprentice permit an identifying
number and each such permit shall be readily identifiable as an apprentice
permit.
(1967 Code, § 7-51)
   (D)   Every apprentice permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
renewed each year, limited to two such renewals.
(1967 Code, § 7-52)
   (E)   (1)   A person holding an apprentice permit cannot perform any
servicing of a portable fire extinguisher, except under the complete control of
a person holding a valid license to perform the servicing.
      (2)   The person holding the license shall be completely responsible for
any work done by a person holding an apprentice permit.
(1967 Code, § 7-53)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1969) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.40 HYDROSTATIC TESTING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Each firm performing hydrostatic testing of Interstate Commerce
Commission specification compressed gas cylinders used for fire extinguishers
shall be required to have a certificate of registration authorizing such
testing from the Fire Department.
(1967 Code, § 7-54)
   (B)   If the Fire Department finds that an applicant has adequate equipment,
facilities and skill to perform hydrostatic testing of Interstate Commerce
Commission specification compressed gas cylinders used for fire extinguishers,
it shall issue a hydrostatic testing certificate.
(1967 Code, § 7-55)
   (C)   Every hydrostatic testing certificate issued pursuant to this section
shall be renewed annually.
(1967 Code, § 7-57)
(Ord. passed 2-3-1969)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.50 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The Board of Fire Commissioners may detail such members of the Fire
Department to assist the Fire Marshal in the enforcement of this chapter as
shall from time to time be necessary.
(1967 Code, § 7-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to provide for fire protection, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-
148(c)(4)(B)
§ 94.51 BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by §
94.01 shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire
Department, which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the
supervision of the Fire Marshal.
(1967 Code, § 7-6)
   (B)   The present Fire Marshal shall be in charge of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention. Any appointment to fill this vacancy shall be in accordance with
the civil service rules and regulations on the basis of examination to
determine his qualifications.
(1967 Code, § 7-7)
(Ord. passed 4-19-1965)
§ 94.52 REPORTS.
   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the Chief Executive Officer of the city; it shall contain all
proceedings under this code, with such statistics as the Fire Marshal may wish
to include therein; the Fire Marshal shall also recommend any amendments to the
code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(1967 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. passed 4-19-1965)
§ 94.53 BOARD OF APPEALS; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a committee of five to act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code adopted by §
94.01. The Fire Marshal shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his
office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(1967 Code, § 7-12)
   (B)   Whenever the Fire Marshal shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Fire Marshal to the Fire Prevention Board of Appeals within 30 days from
the date of the decision appealed.
(1967 Code, § 7-4)
(Ord. passed 4-19-1965)
§ 94.54 LICENSES ISSUED BY FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Fire Marshal shall issue licenses and collect fees as herein provided.
Where the licenses govern a trade or occupation, they shall be for the fiscal
year commencing July 1.
   (A)   Manufacturers of or dealers in explosives, except when explosives are
being manufactured for the defense of the nation shall pay a fee as set forth
in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   The installer of storage tanks shall pay a fee, whether new or
replacement installations, as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 10-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1965; Ord. passed 5-9-1977; Ord. passed
8-19-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall intentionally violate any of the provisions of §
94.31 of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code
(1967 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS STORAGE
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Application
   
95.04   Emergency response plan
   
95.05   Rejection of plan
   
95.06   To whom plans to be submitted
   
95.07   When plan to be submitted
   
95.08   Inspection of hazardous sites
   
95.09   Notification of hazardous substance storage areas
   
95.10   Change in storage areas or types of hazardous substances
   
95.11   Documentation of liability insurance
   
95.12   Emergency response plan to be sworn to
   
95.13   Appeal
   
95.14   Disclosure of information
   
95.15   Conflicting regulations
   
95.16   Annual report to Board of Aldermen
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a continuing source of current
information concerning hazardous substances and chemicals being utilized in the
city, to protect the general health and safety of the public and to enable
emergency personnel to respond safely and speedily to emergency situations
which may arise.
(1967 Code, § 8-27) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF WATERBURY. The Director of Health of
the City of Waterbury.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Those substances identified by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency in Table 117.3, 40 C.F.R. § 117.3 (1982) or in any subsequent
update thereto. The term shall include oil and oil-based derivative as listed
in 40 C.F.R. § 112.2 (1982) or in any subsequent update thereto.
   SIGNIFICANT QUANTITY. Amount of hazardous substances equivalent to the
"reportable quantity" of a substance as listed in Table 117.3, 40 C.F.R. §
117.3 (1982) or in any subsequent update thereto. A SIGNIFICANT QUANTITY of oil
or oil-based derivatives shall be any "quantity" of such substances exceeding
those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 112.1(d)(2)(i)(ii) (1982) or in any subsequent
update thereto.
   STORAGE AREA. As defined in 40 C.F.R. (1980) or in any subsequent update
thereto and in accordance with all applicable city and state fire code
regulations.
(1967 Code, § 8-28) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person or entity,
including government entities, storing, treating, mixing, using or producing a
significant quantity of a hazardous substance or substances within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person or
entity, including government entities, storing hazardous substances within the
corporate limits of the city for purposes of retail consumer sale or individual
private use unless the environmental authority of the city determines that the
storage presents a real or potential danger to the public health and safety and
notifies the person or entity of that determination in writing.
   (C)   Any person or entity subject to the provisions of this chapter may,
for valid reasons, request an exemption from any or all provisions thereof on a
form provided by the environmental authority. The environmental authority may,
in its sole discretion, grant the exemptions based on the information provided
by the applicant if the environmental authority determines valid reasons for
the exemptions exist and that there is no significant health or safety hazard
present.
(1967 Code, § 8-29) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.04 EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   Any person or entity subject to the provisions of this chapter upon
its effective date shall submit, as to such person or entity, an emergency
response plan to the environmental authority of the city on or before the
effective date.
   (B)   The emergency response plan shall include the following elements:
      (1)   A map of the site showing the buildings thereon which shall
describe hazardous substance storage areas and indicate their normal location;
      (2)   A hazard identification and emergency action statement which shall
include a concise procedure for responding to emergency situations in each
area;
      (3)   A procedure for the submitters for reporting fires, chemical spills
or other emergency situations, including procedures for notifying Police, Fire,
Health and Civil Preparedness Departments of the city;
      (4)   A fire response plan, as required by OSHA, identifying the level of
fire response which shall be implemented by personnel as outlined in 29 C.F.R.
§ 1910(L) (1981) or in any subsequent update thereto;
      (5)   An evacuation plan including a list of those persons who are
trained in the implementation of a response plan and in the supervision of
evacuation procedures. The plan shall also include a system for accounting for
all personnel in an evacuation; and
      (6)   A spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan designed to
prevent or minimize the release into the environment of any hazardous substance
stored, treated, used, mixed or produced on the site. This plan shall be based
on the types and quantities of hazardous substances which are on the property
as well as the location and design of the major storage and use areas. The plan
shall designate at least one person and an alternate, one of whom shall be on
site during all working hours and who shall be responsible for implementing the
spill control procedures. The plan shall also specify construction features
designed to control and contain spills from hazardous substance storage areas.
These control features shall include one or more of the following systems or
their equivalents:
         (a)   Dikes or berms or retaining walls which are sufficiently
impervious to contain spills of hazardous substances;
         (b)   Weirs, booms, curbing or other barriers;
         (c)   Culverting, guttering or other drainage system which leads to a
contained impervious area;
         (d)   Sorbent materials;
         (e)   Sumps and collection ponds; and
         (f)   Retention ponds.
   (C)   Each spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan required
hereunder shall be implemented within 90 days of receipt of approval from the
environmental authority.
(1967 Code, § 8-30) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.05 REJECTION OF PLAN.
   The environmental authority of the city may, in his sole discretion, reject
any plan or plans found to be inappropriate when considering the types,
quantities or locations of hazardous substances on the site. Any plan so
rejected shall be returned to the submitter with written suggestions for
compliance and specific reasons for rejection of the plan. Thereafter, a
modified plan incorporating the environmental authority's suggestions shall be
submitted to the environmental authority within 30 days of receipt of a notice
of rejection. If the revised plan is not agreeable to the environmental
authority, it may also be rejected and the submitter shall thereafter comply
with any and all orders imposed by the environmental authority subject to the
appeal rights available herein.
(1967 Code, § 8-31) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.06 TO WHOM PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED.
   The environmental authority of the city shall distribute all emergency
response plans submitted in accordance with §
95.04 of this chapter to the Fire Marshal. The environmental authority may
distribute any such emergency response plan to the Director of Civil
Preparedness, the City Engineer, the City Planner and/or the Building Official
as needed.
(1967 Code, § 8-32) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.07 WHEN PLAN TO BE SUBMITTED.
   Any person or entity that begins storing, treating, mixing, using or
producing a significant quantity of a hazardous substance or substances within
the corporate limits of the city on or after the effective date of this chapter
shall submit a plan as required in §
95.04 prior to the commencement of the activity and thereafter continue to
comply within the other provisions of the chapter.
(1967 Code, § 8-33) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.08 INSPECTION OF HAZARDOUS SITES.
   The environmental authority of the city or his designee may inspect any
sites where a hazardous substance or substances are stored, treated, used,
mixed or produced during all reasonable business hours to establish compliance
with the provisions hereof. Emergency inspections may be made at any time where
the environmental authority has reason to suspect imminent danger or an obvious
infraction of the provisions of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 8-34) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.09 NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE STORAGE AREAS.
   Each submitter of emergency response plans shall identify the location of
their hazardous substance storage areas using the National Fire Protection
Association (N.F.P.A.) 704m marking system. The intent of this section is not
to require labeling of individual barrels or small containers, but rather to
require the labeling of large containers or areas on any given site.
(1967 Code, § 8-35) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.10 CHANGE IN STORAGE AREAS OR TYPES OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   In the event of either a change in the design or normal location of
hazardous substance storage areas or a change in, or addition to the type or
types of a hazardous substance or substances being stored, treated, used, mixed
or produced on a site by an amount equal to a reportable quantity for which an
emergency response plan has been submitted, the plan shall be revised and
resubmitted within 30 days of any change and implemented within 90 days of
receipt of notice of approval. Upon the resubmittal of an emergency response
plan, the environmental authority shall have the same powers and discretion,
and shall follow the same procedures as set forth in §
95.05 of this chapter. Any person or entity exempted from any or all provisions
of this chapter, having undergone a change as contemplated in this section,
shall resubmit an emergency response plan as required herein and/or a new
request for exemptions pursuant to §
95.03(C).
(1967 Code, § 8-36) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 DOCUMENTATION OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   After review of any emergency response plan submitted pursuant to this
chapter, the environmental authority of the city may require any submitter to
submit, as part of its emergency response plan, documentation of appropriate
liability insurance.
(1967 Code, § 8-37) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.12 EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN TO BE SWORN TO.
   The emergency response plan shall be submitted together with an affidavit on
a form provided by the environmental authority of the city as to the truth and
accuracy of the plan. This affidavit shall be signed under penalty of false
statement by the person or, in the case of an entity, a duly authorized
representative of the firm, partnership, corporation or other entity required
to report hereunder.
(1967 Code, § 8-38) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 APPEAL.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, an Appeals Board is hereby created
consisting of the Fire Marshal, the Building Official, the City Planner, the
City Engineer, two members of the Board of Aldermen of the city, one from the
majority party, one from the minority party, who shall serve for his term and
one person, selected by the environmental authority from nominees submitted by
the persons or entities regulated by this chapter, who shall serve for one
year. Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled for the remainder of the
original term.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by any order or decision made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter may, within 15 days of the date
of mailing of the order or decision, appeal therefrom to the Appeals Board in
writing. The appeal shall be filed with the environmental authority. The
Appeals Board shall convene to hear the appeal within ten days of its filing,
shall hear the appeal de novo, and shall render a written decision thereon
within 15 days of conclusion of the hearing. At least 72-hour notice of the
date, time and place of an appeal hearing shall be given to the appellant. The
Appeals Board shall act upon an appeal by a majority vote of its membership
present and voting, so long as a quorum exists. Four members shall constitute a
quorum.
   (C)   Any person or entity aggrieved by an Appeals Board decision may appeal
the decision to the Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury
within 20 days of the date of the decision.
   (D)   The filing of an appeal to the Appeals Board shall stay enforcement of
the environmental authority's order or decision. The filing of an appeal to the
Superior Court for the Judicial District of Waterbury shall not of itself stay
enforcement of the Appeals Board decision. The reviewing court may order a stay
upon appropriate terms.
(1967 Code, § 8-40) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.14 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to require disclosure of information which
is deemed confidential or constituting a trade secret. Any information
submitted in accordance with this chapter shall only be distributed or released
on a need-to-know basis.
(1967 Code, § 8-41) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.15 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In the event this chapter or any part thereof is found to be in conflict
with any state or federal law or regulation, the more stringent of the two
shall prevail.
(1967 Code, § 8-42) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.16 ANNUAL REPORT TO BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   The environmental authority shall submit a report to the Board of Aldermen
on or before July 1 of every year. The report shall delineate information
gained from reports submitted pursuant to this chapter and recommendations and
suggestions relative thereto.
(1967 Code, § 8-44) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity required to report or act hereunder who does not comply
with the provisions hereof within 30 days of either the required reporting date
or the date any act is required to be done shall be subject to a fine as set
forth for each such violation in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code until such time as either the report is received by the
environmental authority or the act is performed. Each day such report is not
submitted or the act is not performed shall constitute a separate violation. No
such fine shall be levied during the process of an appeal filed pursuant to
this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 8-39) (Ord. passed 7-11-1983; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 96: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.001   Director of Health
   
96.002   Diphtheria, whooping cough and lockjaw
   
96.003   Smallpox vaccination
   
96.004   Tuberculin tests
   
96.005   Disinfection of premises
   
96.006   Inspection of property prior to sale
   
96.007   Public pools and spas
Slaughtering
   
96.020   Registration of slaughterers required
   
96.021   Unapproved meat not to be sold
   
96.022   Slaughtering of animals; veterinarian to be present
   
96.023   Conditions for stamping by inspector; unfit meat to be condemned
   
96.024   Fees
   
96.025   Permission to be given before slaughtering; exception
   
96.026   Acceptance of stamped meat from other municipalities
Poultry Slaughtering
   
96.040   Licensing provisions
   
96.041   Construction of premises; coops and slaughtering rooms
   
96.042   Inspections
   
96.043   Selling or slaughtering on streets
   
96.044   Applicability of provisions to farmers
Food and Food Products
   
96.055   Regulations concerning milk
   
96.056   Unwholesome food
   
96.057   Misrepresentation
   
96.058   Street sales
   
96.059   Storage of food
   
96.060   Refrigerators and iceboxes
   
96.061   Pipes for drawing beverages
   
96.062   Bottled water
   
96.063   Regulations concerning meat
   
96.064   Self-contained trucks or vans vending food
   
96.065   Outdoor food vending units
Restaurants
   
96.075   Defined
   
96.076   Permit requirements
   
96.077   Compliance required
   
96.078   Inspection; copy of report to be posted
   
96.079   Construction of kitchens generally
   
96.080   Refrigerators and iceboxes
   
96.081   Fly and vermin protection
   
96.082   Storage containers
   
96.083   Sanitary conditions of premises
   
96.084   Garbage cans
   
96.085   Prohibited utensils
   
96.086   Cleaning facilities
   
96.087   Employee's clothes to be clean
   
96.088   Toilet facilities
   
96.089   Towels
   
96.090   Common drinking cup prohibited
   
96.091   Spitting
   
96.092   Persons with communicable disease
Supermarkets and Grocery Stores
   
96.105   Defined
   
96.106   Permit required; display; fee
   
96.107   Compliance required
   
96.108   Inspections
Sanitation
   
96.120   Nuisances
   
96.120-999   Fouling of public places by dogs prohibited
   
96.121   Abatement
   
96.122   Throwing garbage in street; spilled garbage to be cleaned up
   
96.123   Water running across sidewalk prohibited
   
96.124   Polluting stream or well
   
96.125   Permit required for cattle, sheep, swine and the like
   
96.126   Manure removal; receptacle required
   
96.127   Leaky gas pipes
   
96.128   Septic tanks
High Grass and Weeds
   
96.140   Purpose
   
96.141   Scope of provisions
   
96.142   Definitions
   
96.143   Grass, weeds, or vegetation constituting public nuisance
   
96.144   Minimum standards
   
96.145   Responsibility for compliance
   
96.146   Notice of violations
   
96.147   Appeals
   
96.148   Penalties and enforcement
Smoke Free Zones
   
96.160   Purpose
   
96.161   Location of smoke free zone
   
96.162   Definitions
   
96.163   Smoking constituting a public nuisance
   
96.164   Minimum standards
   
96.165   Penalties and enforcement
   
96.166   Appeals
 
   
96.999   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Board of Commissioners of Public Health, see Charter § 6C-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.001 DIRECTOR OF HEALTH.
   Wherever the term "Health Officer" is used in any special act being part of
the Charter and in any section of this code, the term "Director of Health"
shall be substituted therefor.
(1967 Code, § 8-1)
Charter reference:
   Board of Commissioners of Public Health; officers and employees, see Charter
§ 7D-3(a)
§ 96.002 DIPHTHERIA, WHOOPING COUGH AND LOCKJAW.
   Each child six years old and less is required to be protected against
diphtheria, whooping cough and lockjaw and against diphtheria and lockjaw when
more than six years old before being permitted to attend school, unless the
child presents a certificate from a physician, approved by the Director of
Health, certifying that, in the opinion of the physician, the child has been
suffering from diphtheria, whooping cough or lockjaw previously or that the
vaccination would not be prudent on account of the physical condition of the
child or a statement from the parents or guardian that vaccination or
immunization would be contrary to the religious beliefs of the child.
(1967 Code, § 8-1.1) (Ord. passed 4-8-1974) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.003 SMALLPOX VACCINATION.
   Every person, being the parent or guardian, or having the care, custody or
control of any minor, or other individual, shall (to the extent of any means,
power and authority of the parent, guardian or other person that could properly
be used or exerted for such purpose), cause the minor or individual to be
promptly, frequently and effectively vaccinated, that the minor or individual
shall not take, or be liable to take the smallpox.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 3) Penalty, see §
96.999 
Statutory reference:
   Vaccinations in general, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 19a-222
§ 96.004 TUBERCULIN TESTS.
   Every employee of the Department of Education is required to undergo a skin
test for tuberculosis before the start of his employment and every two years
thereafter with the exception that the skin test may be waived by the Director
of Health of the city if a licensed physician certifies that such an
examination would be harmful to the employee or the skin test is in conflict
with his religious beliefs.
(1967 Code, § 8-1.2) (Ord. passed 8-5-1974) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.005 DISINFECTION OF PREMISES.
   Adequate cleaning and renovation of premises, furniture and belongings,
deemed by the Department of Health to be infected by contagious or communicable
diseases, shall immediately follow the recovery, death or removal of the person
suffering from the disease, and the cleansing and renovation shall be performed
by the owner or occupant of the premises when ordered by the Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 1) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.006 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY PRIOR TO SALE. 
   (A)   Upon request, the Director of Public Health or any person in his
employ may inspect multi- family dwellings to assure conformity of the
structure to the regulations of the Board of Health.
   (B)   The fee for this inspection shall be as set forth in the schedule of
fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (C)   The fee shall be paid by the person or entity requesting the
inspection.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 75) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 96.007 PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Health or his designated representative shall
conduct annual inspections of all public pools and spas as required by and
defined in §§ 19-13-B33b et seq. of the Public Health Code of the state.
   (B)   There shall be an annual permit fee as set forth in the schedule of
fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 76) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
SLAUGHTERING
§ 96.020 REGISTRATION OF SLAUGHTERERS REQUIRED.
   The slaughtering of cattle, calves, sheep and swine, within the limits of
the city for the purpose of sale, is hereby prohibited, except by such persons
as shall first register their names and residences in a book kept for such
purpose at the office of the Department of Public Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 2) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.021 UNAPPROVED MEAT NOT TO BE SOLD.
   No meat of cattle, calves, swine, goats or sheep shall be sold or offered
for sale or kept with the intent to sell, for human food or used in
manufacturing food products, within the city unless the same shall have been
inspected and approved by the meat inspector or the inspecting agent of the
city and has been stamped or tagged by the inspector or inspecting agent. The
possession of any such flesh dressed in a manner suitable for sale or use shall
be deemed prima facie evidence of an intent to sell and a violation of the
provisions of this chapter. This section shall not apply to meat inspected and
approved by the authorities of the United States in accordance with the laws of
the United States.
(1967 Code, § 8-2) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.022 SLAUGHTERING OF ANIMALS; VETERINARIAN TO BE PRESENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall slaughter any cattle, calves, sheep, swine or
goats within the city except in the municipal slaughterhouse, or in a
slaughterhouse licensed by the Board of Commissioners of Public Health, except
in cases where the transportation of an animal for slaughter to the municipal
slaughterhouse would be dangerous or impracticable and in such cases only when
the municipal inspector or inspecting agent shall have been notified before the
slaughter and given an opportunity to be present.
      (2)   If the municipal inspector or inspecting agent is unable to be
present or is not present at the slaughtering, the carcass with viscera and
head attached by their natural attachments shall be presented to the municipal
inspector or inspecting agent at the municipal slaughterhouse for inspection
before the carcass or any part thereof is offered for sale.
   (B)   No animals shall be slaughtered at the municipal abattoir or at a
slaughterhouse licensed by the Board of Commissioners of Public Health, except
in cases as is otherwise provided by this subchapter, unless a licensed
veterinary is present.
(1967 Code, § 8-3) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.023 CONDITIONS FOR STAMPING BY INSPECTOR; UNFIT MEAT TO BE CONDEMNED.
   (A)   Carcasses of animals killed beyond the limits of the city and not
inspected or examined by officials of the United States government shall be
inspected or stamped by the municipal inspector or inspecting agent unless the
transportation to the city for slaughter would be dangerous or impracticable
and in such cases if the municipal inspector or inspecting agent shall have
been notified and given an opportunity to be present before slaughter and shall
be unable to be present at such slaughter, carcasses may be offered at the
municipal slaughterhouse for inspection post mortem and may be inspected and
stamped if the viscera and head are attached to such carcasses, by the natural
attachments.
(1967 Code, § 8-4)
   (B)   The municipal inspector or inspecting agent shall pass and stamp meat
from an animal only when the animal or carcass is found to be free from disease
and sound and healthful, but if the animal is found by inspection to be
diseased, unsound, unhealthful or otherwise unfit for human food, it shall be
condemned for food purposes and destroyed.
(1967 Code, § 8-5)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.024 FEES.
   The fees for slaughtering and for post mortem examination of animals at the
municipal abattoir shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The fees for inspection of carcasses not slaughtered at the
municipal abattoir shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code
(1967 Code, § 8-6) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 96.025 PERMISSION TO BE GIVEN BEFORE SLAUGHTERING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Carcasses of animals slaughtered elsewhere than at the abattoir will
not be inspected unless permission to slaughter has been given by the meat
inspector or Board of Commissioners of Public Health.
(1967 Code, § 8-7)
   (B)   In manifest emergency, which shall be satisfactorily explained to the
inspector, the preceding division may be suspended by the meat inspector. This
provision is intended to cover the case of farmers slaughtering animals bred by
themselves.
(1967 Code, § 8-8)
§ 96.026 ACCEPTANCE OF STAMPED MEAT FROM OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   Whenever the Board of Health shall determine that meat inspected and stamped
in any other municipality is so inspected and stamped under regulations
substantially equivalent to the regulations of the United States government,
the Board of Health may, by rule or regulation of the Board, admit the
inspected and stamped meat for sale in the city and in that case the same is
exempted from the provision of §
96.021.
(1967 Code, § 8-9)
POULTRY SLAUGHTERING
§ 96.040 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of buying or selling live poultry,
within the city, the meat of which is to be sold or used for food, shall
annually apply for a license to the Director of Health upon a form to be
prepared by him.
   (B)   The fee for the license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code payable to the Director of Finance. No such license shall be
issued until the Director of Health has inspected the premises in which the
applicant desires to engage in the business and approved of the premises.
(1967 Code, § 8-10) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
   (C)   The Director of Health may revoke any license issued to any person
engaged in the business of buying or selling live poultry within the city, the
meat of which is to be used or sold for food, for cause.
(1967 Code, § 8-11)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.041 CONSTRUCTION OF PREMISES; COOPS AND SLAUGHTERING ROOMS.
   (A)   The following standards shall be met before any premises for which the
license required by §
96.040 shall be approved.
      (1)   The floors shall be of brick, concrete or other hard impervious
material and properly sloped to outlets covered with removable grating, the
bars of which shall not be more than one-half inch apart.
      (2)   The walls shall be covered or made to a height of seven feet with
concrete at least three inches thick or other improved impervious material.
      (3)   All rooms shall be properly ventilated and well lighted.
      (4)   Properly ventilated and refrigerated cooling and storage facilities
shall be provided if the dressed chickens are to be stored prior to sale. These
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. They shall be screened so as
to prevent the entrance of flies and insects.
(1967 Code, § 8-12)
   (B)   Metal coops for keeping live poultry shall be provided and so arranged
as to be at least two feet from the wall and six inches from the floor.
(1967 Code, § 8-13)
   (C)   The slaughtering rooms shall be separate from the coops and provided
with:
      (1)   An adequate supply of hot and cold running water;
      (2)   Metal containers for bleeding and plucking;
      (3)   Approved type of scalding tub, so arranged as to permit frequent
emptying; and
      (4)   Metal containers for feathers and offal.
(1967 Code, § 8-14)
Penalty, see §
96.999 
§ 96.042 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Health may cause to be inspected by the Health Department
veterinarian, any or all live poultry which shall be brought into the city
before the poultry may be offered for sale and may reject and prohibit the sale
of the poultry as shall, in his estimation, fall below the standard the Health
Department shall have set as suitable for sale.
(1967 Code, § 8-15)
§ 96.043 SELLING OR SLAUGHTERING ON STREETS.
   No live poultry shall be sold or slaughtered on the highway, streets, alleys
or other public highways.
(1967 Code, § 8-16) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.044 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS TO FARMERS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit from selling or to
require a license of farmers for the sale of live poultry raised on their own
premises.
(1967 Code, § 8-17)
FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS
§ 96.055 REGULATIONS CONCERNING MILK.
   (A)   No person shall vend milk in the city without a license issued by the
Department of Public Health. The annual fee for such license shall be as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. All licenses shall expire on January 1 each year. The
licensee’s name, place of business and license number shall be placed on each
outer side of all vehicles used in the conveyance and sale of milk. Letters and
figures shall be not less than two inches in height. All changes of residence
and of drivers shall be immediately reported to the Food and Milk Inspector.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 4) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
   (B)   All milk or milk products sold or offered for sale in the city shall
be either properly pasteurized or produced by herds under supervision of the
state or federal government for the eradication of both tuberculosis and Bang's
disease. Owners of the herds shall also file at the office of the Health
Department each six months a copy of a physical examination chart signed by a
licensed veterinarian. Failure to comply with this section shall result in
revocation of the license to vend milk or milk products.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 5)
   (C)   The Commissioners of Public Health or any persons in their employ
shall have the right to visit at any time the premises of any party supplying
milk or its products to be brought to or sold in the city for the purpose of
inspecting the cows, stable, milkhouses, food and water supply, and to take
samples of milk at any time at the farm, daily or on the route in order to see
that the provisions of this section are observed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 6)
Penalty, see §
96.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to enact regulations pertaining to the sale of milk, see
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-167
   Milk and milk products, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22-127 et seq.
§ 96.056 UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   (A)   No meat, fish, birds, fowl, fruit or vegetables, not being healthy,
fresh, sound, wholesome and safe for human food, nor any meat or fish that died
by disease or accident shall be brought into the city or offered or held for
sale as such food anywhere in the city, nor shall any such articles be kept or
stored therein.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 7)
   (B)   Upon any cattle, meats, birds, fowl, fish or vegetables being found by
any inspector or other officer of the Department of Public Health in a
condition which renders them, in his opinion, unwholesome, and unfit for use as
human food, or in a condition or of a weight or quality in this section
condemned or prohibited, he is empowered, authorized and directed to
immediately condemn the same and cause it to be removed to the crematory for
destruction, and report his action to the Department without delay. The owner
or person in charge of any condemned meat, when so directed by any officer or
by any order of the Health Department, shall remove, or cause the same to be
removed, to the place designated by the officer or order, and shall not sell,
or offer to sell, dispose of the same for human food. When in the opinion of
any officer of the Health Department, any such meat, fish, fruits or vegetables
shall be unfit for human food, or any such animal, cattle, sheep, swine or
fowls, by reason of disease or exposure to contagious disease, shall be unfit
for human food, and improper or unfit to remain near other animals or to be
kept alive, the Board of Health may direct the same to be destroyed, as
dangerous to life and health, and may order any such animal, cattle, sheep,
swine or fowls, to be removed by any inspector, police officer, officer or
agent of the Health Department, to be killed, and taken to the crematory.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 8)
   (C)   No person, being the manager or keeper of any saloon, boarding house
or lodging house, or being employed as a clerk, servant or agent thereat, shall
therein or thereat, offer or have, for food or drink, or to be eaten or drunk,
any poisonous, deleterious or unwholesome substances nor allow anything therein
to be done or to occur, dangerous to life or prejudicial to health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 9)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.057 MISREPRESENTATION.
   No meat, fish, vegetables or unwholesome liquid shall knowingly be bought,
sold, held, offered for sale, labeled or any representation made in respect
thereof under a false name or quality, or as being what the same is not, as
respects wholesomeness, soundness or safety for food or drink.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 10) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.058 STREET SALES.
   (A)   No breadstuffs, cakes, pastry, dried or preserved fruits, candies or
confectionery, shall be kept, sold or offered for sale outside of a building in
the city or in any streets or public place, unless they be kept properly
covered so that they shall be protected from dust and dirt.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 11)
   (B)   No dealer shall expose outside his place of business, berries,
cherries, grapes or cut watermelon, for sale, unless the same shall be properly
protected from dust, dirt and all carriers of infection.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 12)
   (C)   All stands used for displaying fruit or vegetables shall be not less
than two and one-half feet high, above the sidewalk.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 13)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.059 STORAGE OF FOOD.
   Every person, being the owner, lessee or occupant of any room, stall or
place where any meat, fish, fruit or vegetables, designated or held for human
food, shall be stored or kept, or shall be held or offered for sale, shall put
and keep the room, stall and place, and its appurtenances, in a cleanly and
wholesome condition; and every person having charge, or interested or engaged,
whether as principal or agent, in the care or in respect to the custody or sale
of any meat, fish, fruit, birds, fowl or vegetables, designated for human food,
shall put and preserve the same in a cleanly and wholesome condition, and shall
not allow the same, or any part thereof, to be poisoned, infected or rendered
unsafe or unwholesome for human food.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 14) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.060 REFRIGERATORS AND ICEBOXES.
   No butcher or dealer shall keep in any market any refrigerator or ice box,
unless the same shall be lined with some proper metallic substance, so as to be
watertight.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 15) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.061 PIPES FOR DRAWING BEVERAGES.
   In the sale, or keeping for sale, of any beverage or drink, no person shall
keep, or use any tap, faucet, tank, fountain or vessel, or any pipe or conduit
in connection therewith, which shall be composed or made, either wholly or in
part, of brass, lead, copper or other metal or metallic substance that are or
will be affected by liquids so that dangerous, unwholesome or deleterious
compounds are formed therein, or thereby, or such that beer, soda water, syrups
or other liquids, or any beverage, drink or flavoring material drawn therefrom
shall be unwholesome, dangerous or detrimental to health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 16) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.062 BOTTLED WATER.
   It shall be the duty of every manufacturer, importer or other person who
manufactures or imports, in the city, any artificial or natural mineral spring
or other water for drinking purposes, to file, under oath, with the Department
of Health, the name of the water and the exact location from which it is
obtained, together with the chemical and bacteriological analysis thereof, and,
when manufactured, the exact formula used in its production, giving
qualitatively and quantitatively each and every item entering into its
composition. No person shall manufacture or bottle mineral, carbonated or table
waters in the city without a permit from the Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 17) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.063 REGULATIONS CONCERNING MEAT.
   (A)   Carcasses of young calves, pigs, kids and lambs are unfit for human
consumption and shall be condemned, if:
      (1)   The meat has the appearance of being water-soaked, is loose,
flabby, tears easily and can be perforated with the fingers;
      (2)   Its color is grayish red;
      (3)   Good muscular development as a whole is lacking, which condition is
especially noticeable on the upper shank of the leg, where small amounts of
serous infiltrates or small edematous patches are sometimes present between the
muscles; and/or
      (4)   The tissue which later develops as the fat capsule of the kidneys
is edematous, dirty yellow or grayish red, tough and intermixed with islands of
fat.
   (B)   All unborn and stillborn animals shall be condemned, and no hide or
skin thereof shall be removed from the carcass within a room in which edible
products are handled. Nor shall any meager, sickly, or unwholesome fish, birds
or fowl, be brought into the city or held, sold or offered for sale for human
food.
   (C)   The possession of any such flesh dressed in a manner suitable for sale
or use shall be deemed prima facie evidence of an intent to sell and a
violation of the provisions of this section.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 18)
   (D)   The body of any animal or any part thereof, which is to be used as
human food, shall not be carted or carried through the streets or avenues,
unless it be so covered as to protect it from dust and dirt; and no meat,
poultry, fish or game shall be hung or exposed for sale in any street or
outside of any ship or store, or in the open windows or doorways thereof, in
the city. No meat or dead animal above the size of a rabbit shall be taken to
any public or private market to be sold for human food until the game shall
have been fully cooled after killing, nor until the entrails, head and feet
(except of poultry and game, and except the heads and feet of swine) have been
removed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 19)
   (E)   No cattle shall be killed for human food while in an overheated,
feverish or diseased condition; and all such diseased cattle in the city and
the place where found, and their disease, shall be at once reported to the
Department of Public Health by the owner or custodian thereof, that the proper
order may be made relative thereto, or for the removal thereof.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 20)
   (F)   Every butcher and his agents shall allow the parties authorized by the
Health Department to freely and fully inspect the cattle, meats, fish and
vegetables held or kept by them, or intended for sale, and shall answer all
reasonable and proper questions asked by such persons relative to the condition
thereof, and of the places where the articles may be.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 21)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.064 SELF-CONTAINED TRUCKS OR VANS VENDING FOOD.
   No person or entity shall establish, maintain or operate any self-contained
truck or van which vends food in the city without first having obtained a
permit from the Department of Health. The permit shall be placed clearly in
public view. There shall be an annual permit fee per truck or van, payable
during the month of January in the case of the trucks and vans already in
operation as of January 1, 1990 and within one month in the case of all such
businesses established thereafter. All permits shall expire at the end of the
calendar year of issuance. All such vehicles requiring a second reinspection,
for any reason whatsoever, shall be required to pay, in addition to the permit
fee, a fee. The annual permit fee and second reinspection fees, per truck or
van, shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code. If such fees are not paid within one month after the same
becomes due, the person or entity shall be fined not more than $100.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 74) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.065 OUTDOOR FOOD VENDING UNITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or maintain an outdoor
food vending unit in the city without a license issued by the Department of
Public Health. The license may be obtained by filling out an application paying
the annual fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code, and passing the menu and unit design plan review and initial
Health Department inspection. All licenses shall expire on January 31 each
year.
   (B)   The operation of each outdoor food vending unit shall comply with the
regulations of the City Police Department concerning food hucksters.
   (C)   All equipment and procedures shall conform to all applicable
requirements as set forth by the Fire Marshal.
   (D)   Each outdoor food vending unit shall have the name, address and phone
number of the person, firm or corporation responsible for its operation printed
legibly in a conspicuous place on the unit. Any change in this information
shall be reported to the Health Department immediately.
   (E)   The menu of food or drink to be sold at each outdoor food vending
unit, as well as the design plan of each unit, shall be submitted to the Health
Department for review and approval prior to licensing. Any proposed changes in
menu or unit design shall be subject to Health Department review and approval
before the changes are carried out.
   (F)   The food vending unit be constructed in such a manner that all
materials and surfaces that come in contact with food or drink shall be smooth
and easily cleanable, nontoxic and noncorrodible.
   (G)   The food vending unit shall be cleaned and sanitized each day before
the start of operation, at the end of operation, and as is necessary during
operation. Clean cloths or sponges used to clean and sanitize all food or drink
contact surfaces shall be kept in fresh sanitizing solution of 100 ppm chlorine
in water (e.g. one ounce of chlorine bleach in one gallon of water) or its
equivalent.
   (H)   Cross-contamination of food shall be avoided. Raw and cooked
potentially hazardous food shall be kept separate. Utensils, cutting boards,
containers or other equipment that have been previously used for raw foods
shall not be used with cooked or ready to serve foods.
   (I)   Chemicals, sprays, powders and the like that are toxic, caustic or
poisonous shall not be kept upon the food vending unit. Fluorescent lights in
or near the vending site shall have a plastic sleeve with end caps or light
diffusers (covers) in which to prevent breakage and contamination of food or
equipment.
   (J)   All food and drink while being stored, prepared, displayed or held for
service shall be protected from dust, flies, vermin, depredation and pollution
by rodents, unnecessary handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage or other
contamination. All food and drink shall be from an approved source, clean,
wholesome, free from spoilage and so prepared as to be safe for human
consumption.
   (K)   All perishable food and drink shall be stored at such temperatures as
will protect against spoilage. All potentially hazardous food and drink which
consist in whole or part of milk or milk products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish,
shellfish or other ingredients capable of supporting rapid and progressive
growth of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms, shall be maintained at safe
temperatures at 45°F or below, or over 140°F or above, except during necessary
periods of preparation and service. The pouring lips of bottles or containers
of milk or other beverages shall not be submerged for cooling.
   (L)   Vendors shall have a probe type thermometer on site, to be used in
checking for proper cooking and holding temperatures of the food. The
thermometer must be cleaned and sanitized before and after every use. All
refrigeration units shall be provided with accurate thermometers placed in the
units to monitor the ambient air temperature.
   (M)   All utensils and food or drink contact surfaces used in the storage,
preparation, cooking, serving or holding of food items shall be cleaned and
sanitized at the end of operation and as is necessary during operation of the
food vending unit.
   (N)   All single service eating and drinking articles shall be made from
nontoxic materials, and shall have been manufactured, packaged, transported,
stored, handled and dispensed in a sanitary manner, and shall be used only
once. Drinking straws or any other device, hollow in nature, whereby, through
its use a beverage can be drawn into the mouth shall be separately wrapped,
either individually or in pairs, with a sanitary protective covering for
individual use.
   (O)   When preparation and sale of potentially and/or nonpotentially
hazardous foods from food vending units with exposed cooking or preparation
surfaces occurs, or when preparation entails more than the transfer of a
prewrapped food item to a customer, then toilet facilities and hot and cold
water under pressure shall be readily accessible.
   (P)   When the preparation and sale of potentially or nonpotentially
hazardous foods which are kept in protected refrigerators and heated in covered
heating units occurs, or when prepackaged food items are dispensed directly
from refrigerated or properly protected heating units, then toilet facilities
shall be available.
   (Q)   No vendor shall resume work after using a toilet without first washing
his hands. All vendors shall wear clean outer garments and maintain a high
degree of personal cleanliness, and conform to hygienic practices while on
duty. They shall wash their hands thoroughly in an approved handwashing
facility before starting work. Vendors shall not use tobacco in any form while
engaged in food preparation or service.
   (R)   No person while affected with any disease in a communicable form or
while a carrier of the disease, or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds,
sores or an acute respiratory infection shall work at a food vending unit. If
the management of a food vending unit has reason to suspect that any employee
has contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of
such disease, he shall notify the local Director of Health immediately. When
the local Director of Health has reasonable cause to suspect the possibility of
disease transmission from any food service employee, he shall secure a
morbidity history of the suspected employee, or make such other investigation
as may be indicated, and take appropriate action. The Director of Health may
require any or all of the following measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food service;
      (2)   The immediate closure of the food service concerned until, in the
opinion of the Director of Health, no further danger of disease outbreak
exists;
      (3)   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the food
service where there would be no danger of transmitting disease; and
      (4)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee, or
other employees, and of his, and their body discharges.
   (S)   Every outdoor food vending unit shall be subject to inspections, at
intervals as deemed necessary, by the Director of Health or his agent
(sanitarian) to determine whether compliance with these regulations has been
achieved. The Director of Health or his agent, after proper identification,
shall be granted access to, at any reasonable time, any outdoor food vending
unit for the purpose of making the inspections.
   (T)   The inspection findings shall be recorded on an inspection report form
as described in § 19-13-B42 of the Public Health Code of the state. Every
outdoor food vending unit shall maintain a rating score of 80 or higher and
shall not have one or more four-demerit point items in violation, regardless of
the rating score.
   (U)   The Health Department license for any outdoor food vending unit may be
revoked at any time for any reason by the Director of Health or his agent when,
in his opinion, the action is warranted. The unit will not be allowed to resume
operation without the written approval of the Director of Health or his agent.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 77) (Ord. passed 10-19-1992; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
Penalty, see §
96.999
RESTAURANTS
§ 96.075 DEFINED.
   The word RESTAURANT, as used in this subchapter, shall include all hotels
which operate public eating places, delicatessen establishments, snack bars,
luncheonettes, boarding houses that board more than four persons, catering
establishments, bakeries and all other public eating establishments.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 22) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989)
§ 96.076 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person or entity shall establish, maintain or operate any
restaurant in the city without first having obtained a permit from the
Department of Health, which shall be placed in a conspicuous place in the
dining or eating room or if no such room exists, then the permit shall be
placed clearly within public view.
      (2)   There shall be an annual permit fee payable during the month of
January in the case of restaurants already in operation as of January 1, 1990,
and within one month of opening in the case of restaurants established
thereafter. In the case of restaurants established after January 1, 1990, the
first permit issued will expire at the end of that calendar year. All
restaurants requiring a second reinspection, for any reason whatsoever, shall
be required to pay, in addition to the permit fee, a fee.
      (3)   The annual permit fee and second reinspection fees, shall be set
forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code. If such fees are not paid within one month after the same
becomes due, the person or entity shall be fined as set forth in the schedule
of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   No person or entity shall vend food on a temporary basis in the city
without first having obtained a temporary permit from the Department of Health,
which shall be displayed in a conspicuous place. There shall be a permit fee
for each temporary permit issued. The fee for the temporary food vending permit
shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code. The temporary permit shall be valid for a period of no more
than seven days.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 23) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 5-9-1977;
Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 3-8-1993; Ord. passed 5-19-2003; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.077 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, proprietor, manager or person in charge
of any restaurant to so conduct his restaurant as to comply with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 24) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.078 INSPECTION; COPY OF REPORT TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   Every restaurant owner, his agent, or person in charge of the
restaurant, shall permit and allow the Director of Health, and party or parties
authorized by him, or by the Board of Health, at any and all times to freely
and fully inspect such restaurants, to determine whether the requirements under
this subchapter have been complied with.
   (B)   Each such inspection and its findings shall be recorded and signed by
the inspector on duplicate forms approved by the Board of Health, one of which
shall be suitably framed and posted by the inspector in a conspicuous place in
the location where the public is served in the restaurant and the other to be
filed by him with the Department of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 25)
§ 96.079 CONSTRUCTION OF KITCHENS GENERALLY.
   All rooms used for the cooking and preparation of foodstuffs, shall have
floors and side walls so constructed as to exclude vermin, rats and mice and
shall be kept in a state of good repair.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 26) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.080 REFRIGERATORS AND ICEBOXES.
   All refrigerators and iceboxes used for the storage of food and drink shall
be kept clean and sanitary and in good repair. The compartments used for the
storage of ice shall be lined with some proper substance so as to be
watertight. Waste water from refrigerators and ice boxes, refrigerated display
cases, windows or counters, vats or tanks, or other containers used in
refrigerating and storing food and drink shall discharge into an open water-
supplied, properly-trapped, sewer-connecting sink.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 27) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.081 FLY AND VERMIN PROTECTION.
   All restaurants shall provide in places where foodstuffs are kept, exposed,
cooked or served to customers, full protection from dust, dirt, flies and
vermin by means of glass cases, wire screens and other modern and approved
methods. All restaurants shall be kept reasonably free from flies. Vermin shall
be destroyed wherever found.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 28) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.082 STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All sugar in restaurants shall be kept in covered containers.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 29)
   (B)   All eatables purchased in sealed tin cans or containers shall
immediately be removed from the tin cans or containers after the tin cans or
containers are opened and contents exposed to the air.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 30)
   (C)   In filling utensils with milk, none of the overflow shall be permitted
to return to the container out of which the milk has been taken or removed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 31)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.083 SANITARY CONDITIONS OF PREMISES.
   All restaurants and their kitchens shall be kept clean and sanitary at all
times. Precautions shall be taken to prevent nuisances from the dissemination
of odors from keeping or handling garbage. All odors and smoke from cooking
shall be disposed of if necessary by air shafts, fans, forced air or other
modern and approved methods.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 32) Penalty, see §
96.999 
§ 96.084 GARBAGE CANS.
   All restaurants shall be equipped with covered metallic cans for retaining
and keeping their garbage in a sanitary manner. These cans shall be kept in
such place and manner as to preclude nuisances or contamination of food.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 33) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.085 PROHIBITED UTENSILS.
   No utensils shall be used in the preparation service or sale of food or
drink, which are so badly worn, rusted, corroded or in such a condition that
they cannot be rendered clean and sanitary by washing.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 34) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.086 CLEANING FACILITIES.
   Restaurants, kitchens and other rooms connected therewith shall be provided
with ample facilities for washing and cleaning all eating and cooking utensils,
with a proper supply of hot and cold running water. Suitable overflow sinks
shall be provided for this purpose.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 35) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.087 EMPLOYEE'S CLOTHES TO BE CLEAN.
   All persons preparing or handling food and drink shall wear clean, washable
outer garments.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 36) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.088 TOILET FACILITIES. 
   (A)   All restaurants shall maintain for the use of cooks, helpers and
others engaged in the preparation and handling of foods, sanitary toilet and
washing facilities with towels and soap to enable those so employed to keep
their hands and person clean.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 37)
   (B)   Toilets for employees or public use shall not be located in rooms used
for the preparing or storage of food.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 38)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.089 TOWELS.
   All towels and cloths used by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be
clean and sanitary. Towels and cloths used for wiping tables and counters shall
not be used for drying or wiping plates, glasses or other utensils or be
permitted to come in contact with any foodstuff.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 39) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.090 COMMON DRINKING CUP PROHIBITED.
   No common drinking cup shall be provided in or upon the premises of any
restaurant. Drinking glasses shall not be kept at the tank or ice cooler unless
cleansed before being used a second time.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 40) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.091 SPITTING.
   No employee while on duty shall use tobacco or expectorate or discharge from
the human body upon the walls, floors or equipment of any such restaurant or
kitchen.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 41) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.092 PERSONS WITH COMMUNICABLE DISEASE.
   (A)   No person who has a communicable disease shall work in any restaurant,
and no owner, manager or person in charge of any restaurant shall require,
permit or suffer such a person to be employed in the restaurant.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 42)
   (B)   No person living in a house in which there is a case of communicable
disease shall be allowed to work in any restaurant without a written permit
from the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 43)
Penalty, see §
96.999
SUPERMARKETS AND GROCERY STORES
§ 96.105 DEFINED.
   The words SUPERMARKET or GROCERY STORE as used in this subchapter shall
include all businesses and entities, except restaurants as defined in §
96.075, which sell or distribute foodstuffs and beverages to the public on
either a wholesale or retail basis or gratis.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 69) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 11-24-2008)
§ 96.106 PERMIT REQUIRED; DISPLAY; FEE.
   (A)   No person or entity shall establish, maintain or operate any
supermarket or grocery store in the city without first having obtained a permit
from the Department of Health, which shall be placed clearly within public
view.
   (B)   There shall be an annual permit fee as set out below payable during
the month of January in the case of supermarkets or grocery stores already in
operation, or within one month of opening.
   (C)   The annual permit fee, based on square footage (up to 1,500, 1,501 to
2,999 and over 3,000) and a reinspection fee shall be set forth in the schedule
of fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
   (D)   All businesses within this subchapter requiring a second inspection
("reinspection fee"), for any reason whatsoever, shall be required to pay a
fee, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
   (E)   If any fee is not paid within one month after the same becomes due and
owing, the person shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 70)
   (F)   Where more than one license is required due to the provisions of §
96.076 and divisions (A) through (E) of this section, the person or entity
required to obtain the licenses shall pay only one fee. That fee shall be the
greater amount of all applicable permit fees established by either section and
shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the section which contains
the higher fee.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 73)
(Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord. passed 5-19-2003; Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty,
see §
96.999
§ 96.107 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, proprietor, manager or person in charge
of any supermarket or grocery store to so conduct his supermarket or grocery
store as to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 71) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.108 INSPECTIONS.
   Every supermarket or grocery store owner, his agent, or person in charge of
the supermarket or grocery store, shall permit and allow the Director of
Health, and party or parties authorized by him, or by the Board of Health, at
any and all times to freely and fully inspect such supermarket or grocery store
to determine whether the requirements under this subchapter have been complied
with. Each such inspection and its findings shall be recorded and signed by the
inspector on forms approved by the Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 72) (Ord. passed 11-30-1989) Penalty, see §
96.999
SANITATION
§ 96.120 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any pool, ditch, gutter, water course, privy, urinal, cesspool, drain,
puddle, wastewater or ash pit on any lot of land within the city near any
inhabited dwelling house or any public highway so foul or in such state as to
cause the air in such public highway or in such dwelling house, by reason of
offensive or noxious odors emitted therefrom, to be corrupted, offensive to the
senses or injurious to the public health is declared to be a public nuisance
and any person who shall create or maintain or aid in the creation or
maintenance of any such nuisance shall be punished in the manner hereinafter
prescribed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 45)
   (B)   Any accumulation of sewage, waste or stagnant water in or upon any lot
of land, gutter, public street or highway, alley or other public or private
place, within the city which shall render the air noxious or offensive to
persons in the neighborhood or which shall be injurious to the public health,
shall be deemed to be and is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 46)
   (C)   Any animal or fowl kept in any lot or other private place near any
inhabited dwelling house or public highway, within the city in such manner that
noxious or offensive odors are created and sent forth, from the lot or private
place rendering the air near the same offensive to the senses or injurious to
the public health, shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 47)
   (D)   Any accumulation or deposit of offal or of any decaying animal or
vegetable substance in or upon any lot of land or premises near any inhabited
dwelling house or any public street or highway, alley or other public place
within the city, which shall cause the air in such dwelling house, or in such
public street, highway, alley or other public place to become and to be noxious
or offensive to persons in the neighborhood or injurious to public health,
shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Every person creating
or causing any such accumulation or deposit, or in any way contributing
thereto, and the owner or occupier of the lot shall be punished in the manner
hereinafter prescribed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 48)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.120-999 FOULING OF PUBLIC PLACES BY DOGS PROHIBITED.
   For purposes of the following, if the owner of the dog is a minor, then the
responsible party shall be the minor's parent or guardian.
   (A)   The owner of a dog, or the person in control of a dog, shall not allow
the dog to deposit feces in any public place, including, but not limited to, a
sidewalk, street, gutter, park, playground, beach or footpath in the city.
   (B)   All dog owners, or persons otherwise in control of a dog, shall not
appear with such dog in any public place, including, but not limited to, a
sidewalk, street, gutter, park, playground, beach or footpath of the city,
without the means of removal of any feces left by the dog. This means may be
any tool, implement or other device carried for the purpose of picking up and
containing the feces, so that it is unexposed to the person or the public.
   (C)   If any feces shall be deposited by any dog, the person having control
of the dog shall remove the feces immediately from any public place, including,
but not limited to, a sidewalk, street, gutter, park, playground, beach or
footpath of the city, and dispose of the feces in a sanitary manner.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying any blind person.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1998)
§ 96.121 ABATEMENT.
   The owner, lessee or occupier of any lot fronting, adjoining or abutting on
any public highway, road, street, avenue or alley within the city, shall
forthwith, after written notice to that effect from the Board of Public Health
or from the Director of Health, remove any offensive matter lying or being in
the public highway, road, street, avenue or alley thus fronting, adjoining or
abutting the public highway, road, street, avenue or alley.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 49) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.122 THROWING GARBAGE IN STREET; SPILLED GARBAGE TO BE CLEANED UP.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any garbage, refuse or offensive liquid in any
public highway, road, street, avenue, yard or alley within the city.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 50)
   (B)   If in the process of removal any person shall spill or cause or allow
to fall upon any highway, footway, pavement or carriage way, within the city,
any garbage or solid or liquid refuse, he shall remove the same from the place
whereon the same may have slopped or spilled, or may have fallen, and shall
immediately thereafter thoroughly sweep or otherwise thoroughly cleanse the
place.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 51)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.123 WATER RUNNING ACROSS SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow any water or other liquid to run from or out of any
building or land occupied by him upon or across any sidewalk or curbstone and
if any such substance is allowed to pass upon any street, it shall reach the
same by a passage, to be kept at all times adequate and in repair by the person
under or through such sidewalk or curbstone; and no such water or other liquid
or ice therefrom shall be allowed to gather or remain upon the upper surface of
the sidewalk, curb or in such passage; nor shall the person allow any
accumulation of the water or liquid or the ice therefrom, upon any street or
place, but shall, at all times, cause the same to be removed or pass along the
gutter, or the passage to a sewer or other proper inlet.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 52) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.124 POLLUTING STREAM OR WELL.
   (A)   No person shall cause or suffer to be brought or to flow into any
stream of water, spring or well in this city, the water of which is used for
domestic purposes, or into any drain or pipe communicating therewith, any
substance whereby the water in such stream, spring or well is or may become
polluted.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 53)
   (B)   On the complaint of any person to the Director of Health that the
water in any well or spring within the city is polluted or detrimental to the
public health, the Director of Health or other person acting under the
authority of the Board of Health shall inspect and examine the well or spring
and the water thereof, and report thereon to the Board at the meeting which
shall be held next after the making of the complaint and examination.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 54)
   (C)   Whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the Board of Health that
the water of any well or spring in the city, used for domestic purposes, is
polluted or detrimental to public health, the Board may by notice in writing,
require the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises wherein the well or
spring is situated, forthwith to close the same and to do all work necessary or
proper for that purpose.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 55)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.125 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CATTLE, SHEEP, SWINE AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall have or keep upon any premises in the city any horses,
ponies, cattle, sheep, goats, swine or poultry, without permission from the
Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 56) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.126 MANURE REMOVAL; RECEPTACLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons owning or keeping more than three horses in any barnyard
or stable, shall between May 1 and October 1 in each year, remove or cause, all
manure thereon, to be removed from the premises at least once each week.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 59)
   (B)   Every owner, lessee or occupier of a building or premises wherein or
whereon any horse or other beast of draught or burden or any cattle is kept
within the city, shall provide, in connection with such building or premises, a
suitable receptacle for dung, manure, soil, filth or other offensive or noxious
matter which may from time to time be produced in the keeping of any such
animal in the building or upon the premises.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 60)
   (C)   Every owner, lessee or occupier of a building or premises mentioned in
the preceding division shall also cause the receptacle therein mentioned, to be
constructed in such a manner and of the materials and to be covered and
maintained at all times in such a condition as to prevent any escape of the
contents thereof, or any soaking therefrom into the ground or into the wall of
any building.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 61)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.127 LEAKY GAS PIPES.
   Any gas works or gas reservoir now or hereafter erected in the city which
shall corrupt the water or pollute the air so as to become offensive or
injurious to any person residing in the vicinity thereof, or be suffered to
drain into any of the waters of the city so as to pollute the same, shall be
deemed a nuisance, and the Board of Health may order such alterations as they
shall deem necessary to abate and remove the nuisance. Any gas pipe in any
street of the city, in a leaky condition so as to contaminate the air or injure
or endanger any tree in any street or public square or private grounds, shall
be deemed a nuisance and the Board of Health may serve an order on the person
using the same to abate or prevent the nuisance.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 62) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.128 SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   No septic tank, cesspool or underground receptacle for filth shall be
hereafter erected or built or maintained on any lot or premises abutting on any
street in which a public sewer is laid, but proper water closets, school sinks
or some means approved by the Board of Health shall be provided which shall
discharge into the sewer and the use of no such water closet or school sink
shall be allowed unless provided with a flow of water sufficient to wash all
filth into the public sewer system.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 63)
   (B)   No person shall engage in the business of cleaning, emptying or
removing, or shall clean, empty or remove the contents of any septic tank, sink
or cesspool in the city except pursuant to a license and under the supervision
and control of the Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 64)
   (C)   No license, as provided in the foregoing section to be issued to any
person, shall in any case be issued until there has been paid at the office of
the Board of Health for the issuing thereof and for the supervision and control
of the business as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 65) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
   (D)   Every person engaged in the business of removing the contents of
septic tanks, sinks or cesspools, where the contents are to be carried through
any public street or highway, shall use in such business a suitable conveyance
for the carrying of the contents, provided with watertight tanks or boxes, with
close fitting lids or covers or some other suitable conveyance, to be first
approved for such use by the Board of Health.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 66)
   (E)   Every scavenger, or person so licensed and engaged in the business or
employment of cleaning or emptying septic tanks, sinks, cesspools or removing
the contents thereof, shall upon receipt of an order signed by the Director of
Health, stating the necessity for the immediate cleaning or emptying of any
sink or cesspool, or the removal of the contents thereof, perform the work
within 24 hours after the receipt of the order; provided that, the owner,
lessee or occupant of the premises on which the privy- vault, sink or cesspool
is situated, or the Board of Health, shall express willingness to pay the
scavenger or person so licensed for the services the usual fee charged for the
work.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 67)
Penalty, see §
96.999
HIGH GRASS AND WEEDS
§ 96.140 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define, prohibit, and abate nuisances
arising from and related to the growth of grass, weeds, or similar vegetation
and to protect, preserve and promote public health, safety, and welfare; and to
preserve and protect property values.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.141 SCOPE OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply uniformly to the maintenance of all residential,
nonresidential and undeveloped premises now in existence or hereafter
constructed, maintained, or modified but shall exclude: agricultural lands as
defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22-3(b); land dedicated as public or semi-public
open space or preserved in its natural state through conservation easements; or
areas designated as inland wetlands and watercourses.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.142 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation or other legal entity capable of owning
real property.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land
or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or nondwelling
structure and includes any such building, accessory structure or other
structure thereon, or any part thereof. The term PREMISES, where the context
required, shall be deemed to include any buildings, dwellings, parcels or land
or structures contained within the scope of this subchapter.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, dwelling, fence, swimming pool, or similarly
constructed object.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.143 GRASS, WEEDS, OR VEGETATION CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge or possession of any premises in the City of
Waterbury to maintain such premises or any public right-of-way abutting said
premises in such manner that any of the following conditions exist thereon:
   (A)   Premises, occupied by a structure intended for human occupancy, in
which grass, weeds, or similar vegetation (excluding flowers, fruits, and
vegetables) is allowed to reach and remain at a height of nine inches or
greater for a period of ten days or longer;
   (B)   Residentially zoned premises containing up to two times the minimum
lot area required by zoning and not occupied by a structure in which grass,
weeds, or similar vegetation (excluding flowers, fruits, and vegetables) is
allowed to reach and remain at a height of nine inches or greater for a period
of ten days or longer;
   (C)   Dead, decayed, diseased or damaged trees constituting a hazard or
danger to adjacent premises or the occupants thereof or to public property or
persons lawfully therein;
   (D)   Residential or commercially zoned property on which landscaping on the
premises, including, but not limited to, trees, shrubs, hedges, grass, and
plants which physically hinder or interfere with the lawful use of abutting
premises or block or interfere with the use of any public sidewalk and/or
private street or right-of-way or any road sign.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.144 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent
the enforcement of other statutes, codes, ordinances or regulations which
prescribe standards other than are provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance, regulation or other code of the town or state, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety, and property values of the people shall prevail.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not affect violations of any other ordinance,
code or regulation existing prior to the effective date of this code, and any
such violations may be governed and continue to be punishable under the
provisions of those ordinances, codes or regulations in effect at the time the
violation was committed.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.145 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The owner, lessee, or occupant of premises subject to this chapter,
including the agents thereof, shall be jointly and severally obligated to
comply with the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever the person, as herein
defined, is a corporation or other legal entity, the officers thereof shall be
jointly and severally responsible with that corporation or other legal entity.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.146 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or his designee determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of this subchapter, such officer shall give notice
of such alleged violation to the person responsible therefor, as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Set forth the alleged violations of this subchapter;
      (3)   Specify a final date for the correction of any alleged violation;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or the owner's agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require; provided, such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by this notice;
or if such person is served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required under the laws of this state;
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will affect
permanent compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (6)   State that the penalties and enforcement provisions of this chapter
will become effective on the final date set for the correction of any
violation.
   (B)   Any person notified in accordance with this section who fails to
correct any violation by the date specified in said notice shall be in
violation of this subchapter and subject to its penalties and enforcement
procedures.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.147 APPEALS.
   Any person notified in accordance with §
96.146 above may appeal said notice of violation(s) to the Board of
Commissioners of Public Health in writing within ten days of the date of said
notice. The Board of Commissioners of Public Health may, after a hearing on
said appeal, elect to uphold the notice so appealed or rescind the notice so
appealed or modify the notice so appealed in a manner that the Board of
Commissioners of Public Health deems, in its sole discretion, to promote the
purposes of this chapter with fairness and equity. If an appeal is taken as
aforesaid, and the notice appealed is not rescinded by the Board of
Commissioners of Public Health, then the first day of violation shall be seven
days after the decision of the Board of Commissioners of Public Health or on
such later date as established by the Board of Commissioners of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 96.148 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   Each day any violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   Each separate offense under this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Mayor, his designee, or any police officer in the City of
Waterbury, after notice has been delivered pursuant to §
96.146, is authorized to issue a citation or summons, for a violation of this
chapter provided that:
         (a)   In cases where the notice is not appealed to the Board of
Commissioners of Public Health, said citation or summons shall not be issued
until ten days after the delivery of the notice pursuant to §
96.146; or
         (b)   In cases where the notice is appealed to the Board of
Commissioners of Public Health, said citation or summons shall not be issued if
the Board of Commissioners of Public Health rescinds the notice and, in cases
of appeal where the notice is not rescinded, said citation or summons shall not
be issued until seven days after the decision of the Board of Commissioners of
Public Health or until any such later date that has been established by the
Board of Commissioners of Public Health as the first day of violation pursuant
to §
96.147 above.
      (2)   In addition thereto, the Mayor or his designee is authorized to
initiate legal proceedings in the Superior Court to enforce any notice, summons
or citation issued pursuant to this chapter or to seek the immediate correction
of the violation(s), collection of any penalties, and the recovery of all costs
including costs of remedial action(s) authorized by the court and a reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the City of Waterbury to enforce this subchapter.
      (3)   All fines, court costs, costs of remedial action, and attorney's
fees as ordered by the court shall constitute a lien on the subject premises,
provided the owner of said premises has been notified of the violations as
herein provided and was made a party to the enforcement proceedings, and any
amounts for said fines, court costs, costs of remedial action, and attorney's
fees as may be collected shall be paid into the city's general fund.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2009; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
SMOKE FREE ZONES
§ 96.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit smoking of pipes, cigarettes,
cigars and the use of other tobacco products in or on any public right-of-way,
public street or public sidewalk within the area defined in §
96.161 below as being a smoke-free zone in order to provide protection from the
effects of exposure to secondhand smoke.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.161 LOCATION OF SMOKE FREE ZONE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any public right-of-way,
public street or public sidewalk within that area of the city bounded as
follows:
      Starting at a point where a line, following the eastern most boundary
line of Baldwin Street, crosses the southern most boundary line of Union Street
and then running, in an approximate northerly direction, along the eastern most
boundary line of Baldwin Street to its intersection with the northern most
boundary line of Scovill Street;
      Then running, in an approximate westerly direction, along the northern
most boundary line of Scovill Street to its intersection with the northeastern
most boundary line of Cole Street;
      Then running, in an approximate northwesterly direction, along the
northeastern most boundary line of Cole Street to its intersection with eastern
most boundary line of South Elm Street;
      Then crossing South Elm Street in a line, forming a right angle with the
western most boundary line of South Elm Street, to the western most boundary
line of South Elm Street;
      Then running, in an approximate southerly direction, along the western
most boundary line of South Elm Street to its intersection with the southern
most boundary line of Union Street;
      Then running, in an approximate easterly direction, along the southern
most boundary line of Union Street to the point of beginning above stated.
      The herein above references to the boundary lines of Baldwin Street,
Union Street, Scovill Street, Cole Street and South Elm Street are intended to
refer to the boundaries of the rights-of-way over which those streets pass
including any portions of thereof that are unpaved or unimproved as of the date
of adoption hereof and including any sidewalks adjacent to said streets that
are located within said rights-of-way.
      The herein above references to the intersection of boundary lines is
intended to refer to the coordinate at which two given lines would intersect if
extending past one another in the same plane regardless of whether or not said
lines actually terminate prior to said intersection or whether or not said
lines cross one another but in different planes, for example if one right of
way travels over or under another across a bridge or through a tunnel or
similar structure.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.162 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOUNDARY LINES. References herein to the boundary lines of Baldwin Street,
Union Street, Scovill Street, Cole Street and South Elm Street are intended to
refer to the boundaries of the rights-of-way over which those streets pass
including any portions thereof that are unpaved or unimproved as of the date of
adoption hereof and including any sidewalks adjacent to said streets that are
located within said rights-of-way.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation or other legal entity capable of owning
real property.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The term public right-of-way, as used herein, shall
refer to the entirety of any portion of land used, or dedicated to use whether
or not actually used, as an area over which the general public has a common
right to travel, whether by vehicle or on foot.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALK. The term public sidewalk, as used herein, shall refer to
any portion of a public right-of-way that has been improved for, or is
otherwise commonly used for, the purpose of providing an area over which the
general public travels on foot.
   PUBLIC STREET. The term public street, as used herein, shall refer to any
portion of a public right-of-way that has been improved for, or is otherwise
commonly used for, the purpose of providing an area over which the general
public travels by vehicle.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The lighting or carrying of a lighted cigarette, cigar,
pipe or similar device, or other product containing tobacco if that product is
one that is intended to be, or is commonly, lit or ignited.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.163 SMOKING CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any person to smoke, or to
otherwise carry or use any tobacco product while it is lit or ignited, in or on
any public right-of-way, public street or public sidewalk within the smoke-free
zone herein defined and smoking, and the carrying of or use of any tobacco
product while it is lit or ignited, in said smoke-free zone is prohibited. Any
person smoking, or carrying of or using any tobacco product while it is lit or
ignited, in said smoke-free zone shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.164 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent
the enforcement of other statutes, codes, ordinances or regulations which
prescribe standards other than are provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance, regulation or other code of the town or state, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety, and property values of the people shall prevail.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not affect violations of any other ordinance,
code or regulation existing prior to the effective date of this code, and any
such violations may be governed and continue to be punishable under the
provisions of those ordinances, codes or regulations in effect at the time the
violation was committed.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.165 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   Each separate offense under this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Mayor, his designee, or any police officer in the City of
Waterbury, is authorized to issue a citation or summons, for a violation of
this subchapter provided that:
      (2)   In addition thereto, the Mayor or his designee is authorized to
initiate legal proceedings in the Superior Court to enforce any summons or
citation issued pursuant to this chapter or to seek the immediate collection of
any penalties, and the recovery of all costs including costs authorized by the
court and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the City of Waterbury to
enforce this subchapter.
      (3)   All fines, court costs, costs of remedial action, and attorney's
fees as ordered by the court as may be collected shall be paid into the city's
general fund.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 96.166 APPEALS.
   Any person to whom a summons or citation under this subchapter is issued
may, within 30 days after the issuance thereof, appeal said summons or citation
to the Superior Court for the State of Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2009)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
96.075 through
96.092 of this chapter or hinders, impedes, delays, obstructs, any such
inspection, or alters, changes, defaces, moves or destroys, the posted copy of
the inspection, without written authority from the Director of Health, shall be
fined as set forth for each such offense in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 44)
   (C)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
96.120 through
96.128 of this chapter or with any order of the Board of Health made
thereunder, shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code; provided, however, that, if a penalty is prescribed by any
general statute of the state for any of the offenses described in any of the
foregoing sections, the statutory penalty shall be inflicted for the offenses
instead of the penalty herein prescribed.
(1967 Code, Appendix A, § 68)
(Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 97: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Noise level measurement procedures
   
97.04   Noise levels
   
97.05   Prohibited noise activities
   
97.06   Motor vehicle noise
   
97.07   Inspections
   
97.08   Variances
   
97.09   Cease and desist order; hearing by Director of Health
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that people have a right to and should be ensured an
environment free from excessive sound and vibration that may jeopardize their
health or safety or welfare or degrade the quality of life. This chapter is
enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety, welfare and
quality of life for the citizens of the city through the reduction, control and
prevention of noise.
(1967 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT NOISE or BACKGROUND. Noise of a measurable intensity which exists at
a point as a result of a combination of many distant sources individually
indistinguishable.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Waterbury.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition for or of public or
private rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or device operated by fuel or electric
power used in construction or demolition work.
   DAY-TIME HOURS. The hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday, and the hours between 9:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit of measure used in measuring magnitudes of
sound. The symbol is DB.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surface or similar
property.
   DIRECTOR OF HEALTH. The Director of Health of the City of Waterbury.
   DOMESTIC POWER EQUIPMENT. Power saws, drills, grinders, lawn and garden
tools and other domestic power equipment intended for use in residential areas
by a homeowner.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle authorized by the city to have sound
warning devices such as sirens and bells which can lawfully be used when
responding to an emergency.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following an emergency, or work required to protect persons or property from
exposure to imminent danger.
   IMPULSE NOISE. Sound of short duration (generally less than one second) with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Defined as per Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1(53).
   MUFFLER. A device for abating sounds such as escaping gases.
   NIGHT-TIME HOURS. The hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through
Saturday and 10:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. Saturday evening through Sunday morning.
   NOISE. Any sound, the intensity of which exceeds the standards set forth in
§
97.04.
   NOISE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured with a sound level meter
using the A-weighting network. The level so read is designated DB(a) or dBA.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, syndicate, company,
trust, corporation, municipality, agency or political or administrative
subdivision of the state, or other legal entity of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, land or portion thereof, including all
appurtenances, and shall include yards, lots, courts, inner yards and real
properties without buildings or improvements, owned or controlled by a person.
The emitter's premises includes contiguous publicly dedicated street and
highway rights-of-way, all road rights-of-way and waters of the state.
   PROPERTY LINE. Real or imaginary line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension which:
      (1)   Separates real property owned or controlled by another person; and/
or
      (2)   Separates real property from the public right-of-way.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, park, waterway, railroad or similar place which is owned or controlled
by a governmental entity.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any nonregistered internal combustion engine-powered
vehicle which is being used for recreational purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONE. Residential, recreational or educational uses.
   SOUND. A transmission of energy through solid, liquid or gaseous media in
the form of vibrations which constitute alterations in pressure or position of
the particles in the medium and which in the air evoke physiological
sensations, including, but not limited to, an auditory response when impinging
on the ear.
   SOUND LEVEL. An instrument used to take sound level measurements and which
should conform, at a minimum, to the operational specifications of the American
National Standards Institute for Sound Level Meters § 1.4-1971 (Type 52A).
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (SPL). Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of the pressure of a sound to the reference pressure of 20
micronewtons per square meter and is expressed in decibels (dB).
   VIBRATION. An oscillatory motion of sound bodies of deterministic or random
nature described by displacement, velocity or acceleration with respect to a
given reference point.
(1967 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987)
§ 97.03 NOISE LEVEL MEASUREMENT PROCEDURES.
   For the purpose of determining noise levels as set forth in this chapter,
the following guidelines shall be applicable.
   (A)   All personnel conducting sound measurements shall be trained in the
current techniques and principles of sound measuring equipment and
instrumentation.
   (B)   Instruments used to determine sound level measurements shall conform
to the sound level meters as defined by this chapter.
   (C)   The general steps listed below shall be followed when preparing to
take sound level measurements.
      (1)   The instrument manufacturer's specific instructions for the
preparation and use of the instrument shall be followed.
      (2)   The sound level meter shall be field calibrated before and after
each measurement of the noise level.
      (3)   The sound level meter shall be placed at an angle to the sound
source as specified by the manufacturer's instructions and at least four feet
above the ground. It shall be so placed as not to be interfered with by
individuals conducting the measurements.
      (4)   Measurements shall be taken at a point that is at least one foot
beyond the boundary of the emitter's premises within the noise receptor's
premises. The emitter's premises includes his individual unit of land or group
of contiguous parcels under the same ownership as indicated by public land
records.
(1967 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987)
§ 97.04 NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to emit any noise
beyond the boundaries of his premises in excess of the noise levels established
in these regulations.
   (B)   Noise level standards.
 
             Receptor's Zone
Emitter Zone Industrial (dBA) Commercial (dBA) Residential Day  Residential
                                               (dBA)            Night (dBA)
Residential  62               55               55               45
Commercial   62               62               55               45
Industrial   70               66               61               51
 
   (C)   High background noise levels and impulse noise.
      (1)   In those individual cases where the background noise levels caused
by sources not subject to these regulations exceed the standards contained
herein, a source shall be considered to cause excessive noise if the noise
emitted by the source exceeds the background noise levels by five dBA, provided
that no source subject to the provisions of this chapter shall emit noise in
excess of 80 dBA at any time, and provided that this section does not decrease
the permissible levels of other sections of this chapter.
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise in
excess of 80 dB peak sound pressure level during the nighttime to any
residential noise zone.
      (3)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise in
excess of 100 dB peak sound pressure level at any time to any zone.
   (D)   Exclusions. These levels shall not apply to noise emitted by or
related to:
      (1)   Natural phenomena;
      (2)   Any bell or chime from any building clock, schools or church;
      (3)   Any siren, whistle or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles or
any other alarm systems used in an emergency situation; provided, however,
that, burglar alarms not terminating within 30 minutes after being activated
shall be unlawful;
      (4)   Warning devices required by OSHA or other state or federal safety
regulations; and
      (5)   Farming equipment or farming activity operated within an area for
strictly farming.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from these regulations,
subject to special conditions as spelled out:
      (1)   Noise created as a result of, or relating to emergency;
      (2)   Noise from domestic power equipment such as, but not limited to,
power saws, sanders, grinders, lawn and garden tools or similar devices
operated during daytime hours;
      (3)   Noise from snow removal equipment operated by the city or its
agents;
      (4)   Noise created by an aircraft flight operations which are
specifically pre-empted by the Federal Aviation Administration;
      (5)   Noise created by any recreational and/or social activities which
are permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been granted by the
town, including, but not limited to, parades, sporting events, concerts and
fireworks displays;
      (6)   (a)   Noise created by municipal refuse and solid waste collection.
         (b)   Noise created by private refuse and solid waste collection
provided that the activity is conducted during the hours of 5:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m.
      (7)   Noise generated by any construction equipment which is operated
during daytime hours; provided that, operation of construction equipment during
nighttime hours shall not exceed the maximum noise levels as specified in this
section.
(1967 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987)
§ 97.05 PROHIBITED NOISE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace of safety of others.
   (B)   Police Department action. Officers of the Police Department shall
issue citations for the following violations of this section of the Noise
Ordinance without use of a sound level meter.
   (C)   Enumeration of prohibited acts. Each of the following acts, among
others, is declared unlawful and is prohibited; but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Blowing horns, etc. The sounding of any horn or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus, streetcar or other vehicle while not in
motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently
out of control, or if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are
being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by
means of any such signal device or any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and
the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, etc.
         (a)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, musical instrument, tape
recorder, cassette player, compact disk player, device for receiving broadcast
sound or reproducing recorded sound, or any other sound amplification system or
similar device in such a manner or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence or of any person in the vicinity.
         (b)   The playing of any radio, tape recorder, cassette player,
compact disk player, device for receiving broadcast sound or reproducing
recorded sound, or any other sound amplification system or similar device which
produces sound in a motor vehicle in such a manner or with such volume as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any person in the
vicinity.
      (3)   Shouting, singing, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public street at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
      (4)   Animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      (5)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
      (6)   Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust
of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle
engine, motorcycle engine, motorboat engine or any other vehicle engine except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
      (7)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets
and highways, between the evening hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday
through Friday and the evening hours of 6:00 pm. to 9:00 a.m. on Saturday and
Sunday and legal holiday weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from the Building
Inspector or Traffic Engineer, which permit may be granted for a period not to
exceed three days while the emergency continues.
      (8)   Loading and unloading operations. The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
      (9)   Truck idling. No person shall operate an engine or any standing
motor vehicle with a weight in excess of 10,000 pounds manufacturer's gross
vehicle weight (GVW) for a period in excess of ten minutes when such vehicle is
parked on a residential premises or on a city road next to a residential
premises.
      (10)   Schools, churches, court, hospitals, etc. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street that is adjacent to any school, institution of
learning, church or court while the same is in session, or is adjacent to any
hospital, or medical facility for treatment which interferes with the working
or sessions thereof or the persons therein.
(1967 Code, § 12-5) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987; Ord. passed
5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   All motor vehicles operated within the limits of the city, shall be
subject to the noise standards and decibel levels set forth in the regulations
authorized in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-80a.
   (B)   No sound amplifying devices on or within motor vehicles shall emit
noise in excess of noise levels as specified in §
97.04.
   (C)   This section dealing with motor vehicle noise shall be enforced by the
Superintendent of Police and/or his designated subordinates.
(1967 Code, § 12-6) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987) Penalty, see
§
97.99
§ 97.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Director of Health, Superintendent of Police or their designated
representatives are hereby authorized to make tests whenever necessary to
determine the quantity and character of noise. In the event that any person
refuses or restricts entry and free access to any part of a premises or refuses
inspection, testing or noise measurement of any activity, device, facility or
process where inspection is sought, the Director of Health, Superintendent of
Police or their designated representatives may seek from the appropriate court
a warrant without interference, restriction or obstruction at a reasonable
time, for the purpose of inspecting, testing or measuring noise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow or permit the
Director of Health, Superintendent of Police or their designated
representatives free access to any premises when the Director of Health,
Superintendent of Police or their designated representatives is acting in
compliance with a warrant for the inspection and order issued by the
appropriate court.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of any
warrant or court requiring inspection, testing or measurement of noise sources.
   (D)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, delay, resist, prevent in any way,
interfere or attempt to interfere with any authorized person while in the
performance of his duties under this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 12-7) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987) Penalty, see
§
97.99
§ 97.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person living or doing business in the city may apply to the
Department of Health for a variance from one or more provisions of the chapter,
which are more stringent than the Connecticut Department of Environmental
Protection regulations for the control of noise, provided that the applicant
supplies all the following information to the Director of Health:
      (1)   The location and nature of the activity;
      (2)   The time period and hours of operation of the activity;
      (3)   The nature and intensity of the noise that will be generated; and
      (4)   Any other information required by the Director of Health.
   (B)   No variance from these regulations shall be issued unless it has been
demonstrated that:
      (1)   The proposed activity will not violate any provisions of the
Department of Environmental Protection regulations;
      (2)   The noise levels generated by the proposed activity will not
constitute a danger to the public health; and
      (3)   Compliance with the regulations constitutes an unreasonable
hardship on the applicant.
   (C)   The application for variance shall be reviewed and either approved or
rejected within 30 days of receipt by the Director of Health. The approval or
rejection shall be in writing and shall state the conditions of approval of the
variance.
(1967 Code, § 12-8) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987)
§ 97.09 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER; HEARING BY DIRECTOR OF HEALTH.
   The Director of Health or his authorized agent, whenever he finds after
investigation that any person is causing, engaging in or maintaining any
condition or activity which, in his judgment, constitutes a violation of these
regulations may, without prior hearing, issue a cease and desist order in
writing to the person to discontinue, abate or alleviate the condition or
activity. Upon receipt of the order, the person shall immediately discontinue,
abate or alleviate, or shall refrain from causing, engaging in or maintaining
the condition or activity. The Director of Health or his authorized agent,
shall within ten days of the order hold a hearing to provide the person
opportunity to be heard and show that such condition does not exist. The order
shall remain in effect until ten days after the hearing within which time the
Director of Health or his authorized agent will report to the corporation
counsel with recommendations for other appropriate action based on the hearing
as it deems necessary. Any and all legal action taken thereafter will be the
sole responsibility of the corporation counsel and the city.
(1967 Code, § 12-9) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY. 
   Any person in violation of any of the provision of this chapter shall be
fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day such violation continues after the time for
correction of the violation has been given in an order shall constitute a
continuing violation. The imposition of any punishment under this chapter shall
not prevent the enforced abatement of any unlawful conditions by the city.
(1967 Code, § 12-9) (Ord. passed 7-7-1986; Ord. passed 4-20-1987; Ord. passed
5-26-2009; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS AND TREES
Section
Parks
   
98.01   Applicability
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Authority of Park Commissioners to make rules
   
98.04   Issuance of permits by Director
   
98.05   Opening and closing hours of parks
   
98.06   Alcoholic liquor in parks
   
98.07   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on Waterbury Green premises
   
98.08   Animals at large prohibited
   
98.09   Use of paths
   
98.10   Vehicle regulations
   
98.11   Boisterous, abusive speech or behavior
   
98.12   Firearms; throwing stones; ball playing
   
98.13   Fires and fireworks
   
98.14   Swimming
   
98.15   Removal of dirt, stones and the like
   
98.16   Damaging plants, trees or other park property
   
98.17   Disturbing animals in park
   
98.18   Littering prohibited
   
98.19   Sales
Trees  
   
98.30   Board of Park Commissioners to have care of trees
   
98.31   Wilful injury to trees prohibited
 
   
98.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Authority of Board of Park Commissioners to acquire, improve, manage and
control park property, see Charter § 11D-1
   Creation of a Park Department capital improvement fund, see Charter § 11F-10
   Parks, see Charter § 6C-3; Ch. 11, Part D
   Power of Board of Park Commissioners to condemn property used for park
purposes, see Charter § 6C-3(d)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to purchase land for parks, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(3)
PARKS
§ 98.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all parks and land under the jurisdiction of
the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-1)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   When not inconsistent with the context words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number,
words in the single number include the plural number, and words in the
masculine gender are intended to also include the feminine gender. The word
"shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Defined in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 30-1(3), as
in effect on April 1, 1977.
   BOARD. The Board of Park Commissioners as set forth in § 6C-3 of the
Charter.
   CITY. The City of Waterbury.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Parks and Recreation of the City of Waterbury or
his authorized designee.
   PARK. Any park, playground, recreation center or any other area in the city
owned or used by the city and devoted to active or passive recreation. PARK
shall not include any through-city street that crosses a park.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any and all wheeled conveyance, whether motor, animal-drawn or
self-propelled. The term shall also include motorized snow vehicles and
mechanized sleds.
      (2)   Exception is made for baby carriages and vehicles in the service of
the city parks.
(1967 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 98.03 AUTHORITY OF PARK COMMISSIONERS TO MAKE RULES.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall publish, post and enforce rules of use
and play at the municipal golf courses.
(1967 Code, § 14-2)
§ 98.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS BY DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Any person seeking issuance of a permit as provided under §§
98.06 and
98.10 of this chapter shall file an application with the Director.
   (B)   The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Address of the person, persons, groups, associations or
organization sponsoring the activity, if any;
      (3)   The day and the hours for which the permit is desired;
      (4)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired;
      (5)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance; and
      (6)   Any other information which the Director shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be issued
hereunder.
   (C)   The Director shall issue a permit when he finds that:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public's enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation;
      (3)   The proposed activity or use is not reasonably anticipated to
incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
      (4)   The proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police protection by the city; and
      (5)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour required in the application.
   (D)   Within ten days after receipt of an application, the Director shall
apprise an applicant in writing the reasons for refusing a permit, and any
aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal in writing within five days to
the Board, which shall consider the application under the standards set forth
in division (C) of this section and sustain or overrule the Director's decision
within ten days.
(1967 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979)
§ 98.05 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS OF PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall enter or remain in any park or in any section of any
park between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   (1)   Those persons in attendance at an activity which is authorized
by written permit issued by the Director in accordance with §
98.04, which permit shall be carried upon the person of the individual or group
representative claiming a right to so remain in the parks, and which permit
shall allow the activity to be conducted during the prohibited hours, shall be
exempt from this section.
      (2)   The area known as the Downtown Green, located between West Main
Street and North Main Street, shall be exempt from this section.
(1967 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor in any park nor
shall any person possess or bring into any park, with the intent to drink or
consume, any alcoholic liquor or have in his possession any alcoholic liquor
with the intent to drink or consume the alcoholic liquor within any park.
   (B)   This section shall not pertain to any person or activity which is
authorized by a written permit issued by the Director in accordance with §
98.04, which permit shall exclude the person or activity from the provisions of
this section, and which permit shall be carried upon the person of that
individual or group representative claiming any exclusionary rights under this
subchapter.
   (C)   Also, any person who purchases or receives any alcoholic liquor from a
concession stand located within any park, which stand is permitted by the Board
to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor within any park, shall be exempt from this
section.
(1967 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON WATERBURY GREEN PREMISES.
   The drinking or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of the
Waterbury Green, without the express written permission of the Board of Park
Commissioners, shall be unlawful.
(1967 Code, § 14-27) (Ord. passed 10-25-1978) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.08 ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No domestic animals, except dogs, shall be permitted to enter or roam
at large in any of the public parks of the city, either with or without a
keeper.
   (B)   Dogs shall be held in leash by the owners, otherwise they may be
impounded or killed by any park-keeper, special constable or police officer.
(1967 Code, § 14-3) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09 USE OF PATHS.
   No person shall ride or drive on any roads, paths or trails of the parks
unless the roads, paths or trails have been designated for such purpose by the
Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-4) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.10 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall ride or drive any vehicle in any park except upon the
roads, paths or trails provided therefor or at times and in areas which have
been designated for such purpose by the Board. No vehicle shall be driven at a
rate of speed greater than 15 mph upon any roads, paths or trails provided for
such travel in any park. No one shall operate any vehicle upon the turf, lawns,
sidewalks or footpaths except in such places and at such times as may be
designated by the Board.
(1967 Code, § 14-23)
   (B)   No person shall ride or drive on any road within any of the parks at a
faster speed than 15 mph and this shall apply to the use of cycles.
(1967 Code, § 14-5)
   (C)   No person shall ride or drive upon the grass, lawns or foot-paths of
any of the parks.
(1967 Code, § 14-6)
   (D)   No person shall wash or repair his vehicle in any park without
authority of the Board of Park Commissioners; provided, however, that, this
section shall not apply to emergency repairs.
(1967 Code, § 14-7)
   (E)   No cart, wagon, dray, truck or other vehicle, carrying lumber, stone,
brick or any other goods, merchandise or articles of freight, or which is
commonly used for the carriage thereof, shall, except in the service of the
Board of Park Commissioners, enter any part of the parks.
(1967 Code, § 14-8)
(Ord. passed 8-6-1979) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 BOISTEROUS, ABUSIVE SPEECH OR BEHAVIOR.
   No threatening, abusive, boisterous, insulting or indecent language or
gesture shall be used in any of the parks, nor shall any oration, harangue or
other public demonstration be made, unless by special authority of the Board of
Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-9) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.12 FIREARMS; THROWING STONES; BALL PLAYING.
   (A)   No person shall carry or have any firearms in any of the parks, and no
firearms shall be discharged from, or into any of the same.
   (B)   No stone or other missile shall be thrown or rolled from, into, within
or upon any of such parks, except in such place as the Board of Park
Commissioners may designate as a ball field, in playing games in which a ball
is used.
(1967 Code, § 14-10) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 FIRES AND FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, unless by authority of the Board of Park Commissioners,
shall light, kindle or use any fire in any of the parks.
(1967 Code, § 14-11)
   (B)   No person shall discharge or set off, on or within any of the parks,
any fire crackers, torpedoes, rockets or other fireworks, except by written
permission from the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-12)
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.14 SWIMMING.
   Bathing shall be permitted only in the bodies of water in the parks as may
be designated by the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-13) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.15 REMOVAL OF DIRT, STONES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall dig up or remove any dirt, stones, rock or other thing
whatsoever, make any excavation, quarry any stone or lay or set off any blast,
or cause or assist in doing any of such things, within any of the parks,
without the special order or license of the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-14) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.16 DAMAGING PLANTS, TREES OR OTHER PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall pick any flowers, foliage or fruit, or cut, break or dig up,
in any manner mutilate or injure, any tree, shrub, plant, grass, turf, railing,
seat, fence, structure or other thing in any of the parks, or cut, carve,
paint, mark, nail, attach or paste on any tree, stone, fence, wall, building,
monument or other object therein, any bill, advertisement or inscription
whatsoever.
(1967 Code, § 14-15) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, including damage to certain municipal property, see Conn.
Gen. Stat. §§ 53a-115 through 53a-117a
§ 98.17 DISTURBING ANIMALS IN PARK.
   No person shall disturb or injure any bird, bird's nest or eggs or any
squirrel or other animal within any of the parks.
(1967 Code, § 14-16) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.18 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the
city, except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place, as may be specifically
designated by the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-17)
      (2)   Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be
carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and
properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
   (B)   Any violation of division (A) above shall be subject to the provisions
of §§
131.15 and
131.60.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.19 SALES.
   No person shall expose any article or thing for sale in any of the parks,
unless licensed therefor by the Board of Park Commissioners.
(1967 Code, § 14-18) Penalty, see §
98.99
TREES  
§ 98.30 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS TO HAVE CARE OF TREES.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the general care of the trees in
the streets, sidewalks and public squares in the city, and shall provide for
the trimming and protection of the trees and, when necessary, shall provide for
or authorize the removal of the same.
(1967 Code, § 14-19)
§ 98.31 WILFUL INJURY TO TREES PROHIBITED. 
   Every person who shall willfully and maliciously cut, bruise, break, injure,
destroy, displace or carry away any fixture placed upon or around any tree in
the city, for the purpose of protecting same, shall be punished as set forth in
§
98.99 of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 14-20) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, including damage to certain municipal property, see Conn.
Gen. Stat. §§ 53a-115 through 53a-117a
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
other fine is provided, shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and/or shall be summoned or brought to community court
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior court judge assigned to
the community court may impose a penalty of community service, a fine as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or other penalty permitted by law. Each day any violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
98.05,
98.06 or
98.10 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each such offense, and/or shall be summoned or brought
to community court pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior
court judge assigned to the community court may impose a penalty of community
service, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code or other penalty permitted by law.
(1967 Code, § 14-26)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
98.07 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each offense and/or shall be summoned or brought to
community court pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior court
judge assigned to the community court may impose a penalty of community
service, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or other penalty permitted by law.
(1967 Code, § 14-27)
(Ord. passed 10-25-1978; Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 99: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   "Street" defined
   
99.02   Board of Public Works to issue certain licenses
   
99.03   Use of city equipment for private work prohibited
   
99.04   Storing building materials in street; licenses
   
99.05   Signs and street stands
   
99.06   Veteran's newsstands
   
99.07   Defacing public property
   
99.08   Tampering with street signs
   
99.09   Removing dirt or sod from streets or squares
   
99.10   Open manholes to be barricaded
   
99.11   Cellar doors in sidewalk
   
99.12   Trap doors and coal holes
   
99.13   Certain sidewalks to be kept from getting slippery
   
99.14   Railings, gates and fences
   
99.15   Projecting staging
   
99.16   Tunnels
   
99.17   Depositing matter on streets
   
99.18   Distributing advertising; lots to be kept free from litter
   
99.19   Permit required to move building
   
99.20   Dimensions of curbing
   
99.21   Utility connections
   
99.22   Utility poles to be marked
   
99.23   Street fires
   
99.24   Riding on sidewalk
   
99.25   Carting timber, machinery through streets
   
99.26   Vehicles with lugs or spikes prohibited
   
99.27   Playing games, throwing stones prohibited
   
99.28   Coasting
   
99.29   Rainspouts not to discharge on sidewalk
   
99.30   Parades
Obstructions
   
99.40   Obstructions on streets and sidewalks
   
99.41   Loitering
   
99.42   Obstructing gutters prohibited
Snow and Ice Removal
   
99.55   Snow and ice removal required
   
99.56   Liability of city for ice and snow on sidewalks
   
99.57   Snow and ice not to be shoveled into street
Street Openings
   
99.70   License required to make connections
   
99.71   Permit required; fees
   
99.72   Insurance prerequisite to issuance of permit
   
99.73   Authority of Board of Public Works
   
99.74   Guarding and lighting of excavations
   
99.75   Excavation to provide safe passage around
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Sidewalk construction fund, see Charter § 11F-4
   Street improvement fund; special assessments; assessment procedure, see
Charter § 11F-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 "STREET" DEFINED.
   Whenever the word STREET or STREETS is mentioned in this chapter, it shall
include alleys, lanes, courts, greens, public squares and public places, and it
shall also be understood as including the sidewalks, unless the contrary is
expressed or such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent
of the Board of Aldermen.
(1967 Code, § 19-1)
§ 99.02 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO ISSUE CERTAIN LICENSES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall issue licenses for the following,
namely:
      (1)   For moving buildings; and
      (2)   For any street openings for which fees shall be collected as
specified in the various sections of this code relating to the same.
(1967 Code, § 10-8)
   (B)   All work for which a license is required by §
99.04 and division (A) above shall be performed by the licensee or his
journeyman.
(1967 Code, § 10-7)
(Ord. passed 5-22-1989)
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
§ 99.03 USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT FOR PRIVATE WORK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Streets shall not use any equipment or laborers
in the employment of and paid by the city for the performance of any work,
labor or service for any person other than the city, except in cases where the
requirements of the Charter, this code and ordinances of the city make the
performance of the work, labor or service necessary for such persons as neglect
or refuse to comply therewith.
(1967 Code, § 19-4)
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not be so construed as to prevent or preclude
the Superintendent of Streets, with and by the consent or direction of the
Board of Public Works, from obtaining gravel or other material for use on the
streets of the city from the lands of any person by digging cellars or grading
lots whence the gravel or material may be obtained.
(1967 Code, § 19-5)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 STORING BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; LICENSES.
   (A)   Every person intending to erect or to repair any building upon any
land abutting on any of the streets of the city, may receive a license to
occupy a portion of the street for building materials in the manner, and upon
such terms and conditions as provided in
Chapter 110 of this code, and in all cases the portion so allotted shall be
enclosed and lighted as prescribed in §
99.74.
(1967 Code, § 19-8)
   (B)   The Superintendent of Streets shall issue licenses for the following
and collect fees: for obstructing streets with building materials, and the
like, in proportion to the street frontage occupied, at the rate as set forth
in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, the Superintendent of Streets to designate the amount of
space to be occupied; provided, however, that, any permittee under division (A)
above shall not be required to obtain any license under this division.
(1967 Code, § 10-3)
   (C)   All work for which a license is required by this section shall be
performed by the licensee or his journeyman.
(1967 Code, § 10-7)
(Ord. passed 5-22-1989; Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 SIGNS AND STREET STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall place, erect, fasten or continue any sign, show bill
or show board of any description whatever, or any goods, wares or merchandise
for show or sale, upon any street or sidewalk except as otherwise provided by
this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 19-9)
   (B)   No person shall make a stand in any street, or in any of the public
squares with a wagon, wheelbarrow or other vehicle, or shall erect any booth
for the sale of any article, or for the exercise of any business or calling,
unless licensed by the Board of Aldermen.
(1967 Code, § 19-10)
Penalty, see §
99.99
Cross-reference:
   Signs and outdoor advertising, see
Ch. 157
§ 99.06 VETERAN'S NEWSSTANDS.
   (A)   Any person who has been a resident of the state for one year and a
resident of the city for six months, and who is a veteran as defined by Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 27-103 and is receiving a pension, annuity or compensation from
the United States because of an injury or disability received while in the
service may make application to the Mayor, on a form to be prescribed by him to
locate a newsstand on the public sidewalks for the sale of books, postcards,
newspapers, magazines, periodicals and other printed matters; provided, the
applicant has secured the consent in writing of the owners and lessees of the
abutting premises for filing with the Mayor, in front of which, the newsstand
is to be located, and if the newsstand is to be located on a public sidewalk in
front of or on city property, provided the applicant has obtained the approval
of the Board having the authority and control over such location.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall refer the application to the Board of Public
Works for investigation as to the locality where the newsstand is to be
situated, and if same, in its opinion, does not interfere with public travel or
the use of the sidewalks at that locality and is a suitable and proper place
for such newsstand, shall make a report of its finding and facts and whether it
recommends favorable or unfavorable consideration upon the application, to the
Mayor. The Mayor, upon the recommendation of the Board of Public Works, may
grant a license to the applicant, having taken into consideration the mental
and physical status of the applicant and his needs and requirements.
      (2)   The license shall be issued by the Mayor without charging a fee for
the same, and unless sooner revoked, shall expire on December 31 succeeding the
date of issue thereof.
(1967 Code, § 19-11)
§ 99.07 DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw down, or in any manner injure or deface any fence,
pump or watering trough, seat or other work of ornament or utility erected by
authority in or upon any of the streets or public squares.
(1967 Code, § 19-15) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.08 TAMPERING WITH STREET SIGNS. 
   No person shall disturb, deface or otherwise interfere with any street sign
used to designate the name of any public street in the city or with any notice
or sign used by the city to warn travelers or others that any street, alley,
road or other place is not public or accepted as such.
(1967 Code, § 19-16) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.09 REMOVING DIRT OR SOD FROM STREETS OR SQUARES.
   No person shall cut or dig up any sod or turf in any of the streets or
public squares except under the direction of the Board of Public Works; nor
shall any person remove or carry away any sod or turf, cut or dig, contrary to
the provisions of this section. No person shall take or remove any surplus or
excavated material from the roadway of any street in the city, without the
authority of the Board of Public Works or the Superintendent of Streets.
(1967 Code, § 19-17) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.10 OPEN MANHOLES TO BE BARRICADED.
   No person shall leave open any manhole in the streets unless the same shall
be enclosed with a railing on each side at least three feet high from the top
of the street or pavement, and a person stationed at each manhole while opened.
(1967 Code, § 19-18) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.11 CELLAR DOORS IN SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall construct any cellar door or cellar doorway in any
sidewalk, or projecting into any sidewalk beyond the street line in the city,
without permission from the Board of Public Works.
(1967 Code, § 19-19)
   (B)   No person shall continue or maintain any already existing cellar door
or cellar doorway in any sidewalk beyond the street line after the passage of
an order by the Board of Aldermen for the removal of the cellar door or
doorway.
(1967 Code, § 19-20)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.12 TRAP DOORS AND COAL HOLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave open any trap door or coal hole in any sidewalk
unless the same be properly guarded.
(1967 Code, § 19-21)
   (B)   The upper surface of every coal hole cover and all iron plates on
cellar or trap doors in any sidewalk, shall be made, and kept at all times,
roughed or studded over, so as to prevent danger or injury to pedestrians. No
trap door or iron cover in any coal hole shall extend above the surface of the
sidewalk.
(1967 Code, § 19-22)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.13 CERTAIN SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FROM GETTING SLIPPERY.
   The owner of any lot or building in front of which there may be a sidewalk
built, constructed or composed, wholly or in part of glass, iron or other
substance liable to become slippery by use or wear, shall protect the sidewalk
at all times so as to prevent danger or injury to pedestrians.
(1967 Code, § 19-23) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.14 RAILINGS, GATES AND FENCES.
   (A)   Railings. Every entrance or flight of steps descending immediately
from or near the line of any street into any cellar or basement story of any
building, where the entrance or flight of steps shall not be safely and
securely covered, shall be enclosed with a permanent railing on each side, at
least three feet high from the top of the sidewalk or pavement, together with a
gate to open inwardly, or two iron chains across the front of the entrance way,
one near the top and the other half way from sidewalk or pavement to the top of
the railing, to the acceptance of the Superintendent of Streets, and such gate
or chains shall, unless there be a burning light over the steps to prevent
accidents, be closed during the night.
(1967 Code, § 19-24)
   (B)   Guard rails at excavations. Any person who shall make or keep open any
excavation for a cellar or other purposes, within five feet of the line of any
street, so as to endanger the safety of pedestrians shall cause such excavation
to be properly guarded by a substantial railing or covering, to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent of Streets.
(1967 Code, § 19-25)
   (C)   Fences. Every owner of any lot of land which abuts upon any street
shall, when ordered so to do by the Board of Aldermen, and when public safety
so requires, cause to be erected and maintained on the line of the lots
adjoining the street, a suitable fence of rails, boards or other materials; and
the Superintendent of Streets is hereby authorized to erect the fence where,
after the passage of the order, the owner neglects to provide the same, and the
expense of erecting the fence shall be paid by the owner of the land, and shall
be a lien upon the lands in favor of the city, to be secured and enforced in
the manner provided by law.
(1967 Code, § 19-26)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.15 PROJECTING STAGING.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect a staging on a building adjoining a
street line where the staging shall project over the street or walk, shall,
before undertaking the work, apply to the Superintendent of Streets for a
permit, the fee for which shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 19-27) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
   (B)   Upon obtaining the permit, and before commencing the work, the person
shall, at his own expense, provide and furnish to the city a policy of
liability insurance, which shall be approved by the Corporation Counsel and
which shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state, the policy to provide coverage of not less than $15,000 for personal
injuries and not less than $5,000 for property damage and to be in full force
and effect at all times during the erection, existence or demolition of the
staging.
(1967 Code, § 19-28)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.16 TUNNELS.
   There shall be no tunneling under streets or sidewalks without the written
permission of the Superintendent of Streets.
(1967 Code, § 19-29) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.17 DEPOSITING MATTER ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, cart or lay any offal, vegetables, garbage,
dross, straw, shavings, earth, filth or rubbish of any kind whatever, in or
into any street or in any of the public squares of the city; or shall suffer
any brine or wash or dirty water to flow into any street, or throw or permit
the same to be thrown into or scattered on any street; or shall throw, cart or
lay any ashes, cinders or shells in or upon any street in the city.
(1967 Code, § 19-30)
   (B)   No person shall throw on the streets any part or portion of any fruit
or vegetable or other slippery substance. The proprietor of every store, stand
or other place where such fruit, vegetables or other substances are sold, shall
keep suspended therein, or posted thereon, in some conspicuous place constantly
a copy of this section, printed in large type, so that persons purchasing the
fruit, vegetables or other substances may become aware of its provisions.
(1967 Code, § 19-31)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.18 DISTRIBUTING ADVERTISING; LOTS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   The provisions of
Chapter 131 of the code of ordinances shall apply to the streets and sidewalks
of the city.
(1967 Code, §§ 19-32, 19-33) (Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
§ 99.19 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MOVE BUILDING.
   No person shall remove or draw through or upon any street, any building,
without a permit, as provided in Title XI of this code, upon written
application therefor. Every application under this section shall state the name
of the owner of the building to be removed, the name of the person who is to
move the same, the precise locality from whence the building is to be moved,
the precise locality to which it is to be moved, the distance from the proposed
front line of the building to the line of the street; the street or streets
through which it is to be conveyed, the dimensions of the building and nature
of the materials of which it is constructed.
(1967 Code, § 19-34) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.20 DIMENSIONS OF CURBING.
   Hereafter when any curb is ordered laid in any public street, it shall not
be less than five inches in thickness, 18 inches in depth, and in pieces not
less than four feet long.
(1967 Code, § 19-35) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.21 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever an order shall have been passed for paving or repaving any
street of the city, in or through which there shall be, before the execution of
the order, any sewer or any gas or water mains laid down, it shall be the duty
of the Board of Public Works to examine the land and buildings upon the street,
to prescribe the connections proper to be made with such sewer, gas or water
mains by the proprietors of the lands, and to give to the proprietor reasonable
notice, requiring them to make the connections before the pavement is laid or
relaid, as the case may be.
(1967 Code, § 19-36)
   (B)   If the requirements of the notice prescribed by the preceding division
shall not be complied with, it shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works,
unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Aldermen, to cause all such
connections so ordered by them as aforesaid, to be made; and the expense of
making the same shall be paid by the proprietors of the lands respectively, and
shall be a lien upon the lands in favor of the city, to be secured and enforced
in the manner provided by the Charter and ordinances of the city in other
cases.
(1967 Code, § 19-37)
§ 99.22 UTILITY POLES TO BE MARKED.
   The owner and every person having the care of any telegraph, telephone or
electric pole erected in any street shall mark the pole with the name of the
owner thereof.
(1967 Code, § 19-38) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.23 STREET FIRES.
   No person shall burn any leaves, grass, papers, rubbish or similar
substances or materials in the gutters of or upon any permanently improved,
paved or hard-surfaced streets, alley or public place.
(1967 Code, § 19-40) Penalty, see §
99.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 94
§ 99.24 RIDING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall drive, wheel, park or draw any coach, cart, handcart,
wheelbarrow, bicycle, skateboard or other vehicle whether of the same
description or not, except children's hand carriages and bicycles drawn by
hand, upon any sidewalk or footpath in the streets or public squares, except
going in or out of driveways.
(1967 Code, § 19-39) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.25 CARTING TIMBER, MACHINERY THROUGH STREETS.
   Every person carting any timber, machinery or other heavy substance through
any street of the city, shall have the same raised and supported on wheels so
as to avoid dragging on the ground or tearing up or otherwise injuring the
surface of the streets.
(1967 Code, § 19-41) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.26 VEHICLES WITH LUGS OR SPIKES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive, tow or operate, upon any paved, hard-surfaced,
improved street, avenue or other highway in the city any tractor or other
vehicle having spiked, grooved or ribbed metal tread or grousers protruding for
the purpose of traction.
(1967 Code, § 19-42) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.27 PLAYING GAMES, THROWING STONES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play football, or any other game of ball, or quoits, or
throw stones, snowballs or other things liable to injure any person within any
of the streets or public squares.
(1967 Code, § 19-43) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 COASTING.
   No person shall course or coast upon a sled in any street except on such
streets as may be designated by the Mayor for such purpose.
(1967 Code, § 19-44) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.29 RAINSPOUTS NOT TO DISCHARGE ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall construct, or cause to be constructed or allow to remain,
any rain water leader, spout, or drain from any dwelling, house, store,
tenement or other building, to discharge upon, over or above any street or
sidewalk.
(1967 Code, § 19-45) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.30 PARADES.
   (A)   Unless permission is first obtained, all street parades and
processions bearing banners or other conspicuous devices, accompanied with
music or any disturbing sounds, are prohibited, except in parades of the
National Guard, Police and Fire Departments, and funeral processions engaged in
the burial of the dead.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may permit, under reasonable restrictions as
appear necessary for the protection of health, safety or welfare of the public,
any street parade or procession, provided application therefor be made in
writing, specifying the object, time and route of the parade or procession.
(1967 Code, § 13-12) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971) Penalty, see §
99.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 99.40 OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall obstruct any street or sidewalk in any manner; provided,
however, that, goods, wares and merchandise may be temporarily placed on the
streets or sidewalks while loading or unloading. The Superintendent of Streets
may remove any such obstruction at the expense of the owner.
(1967 Code, § 19-6) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.41 LOITERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any assembly of three or more persons to
loiter upon any highway, sidewalk, bridge or structure adjacent thereto. The
purpose of this section is to keep streets, sidewalks and public places free
from undue noise and nuisances and prohibit loitering thereon. Peace officers
are to ensure that public places are kept open and safe for public use and
travel and free from encroachment or obstruction and to prevent trespassing on
public and private lands and in buildings in the municipalities. Upon the
request of an owner of private property, a peace officer may enforce this
section with respect to loitering on private property.
   (B)   Any person who disobeys a peace officer's demand that he immediately
disperse shall be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
99.99.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved under any provision of this section may file a
written appeal with the police legal advisor (hearing officer). The appeal
shall be filed no later than 15 days after the date of the infraction. Within
30 days of the filing of the appeal, the hearing officer shall hear the matter
and rule thereon. The decision of the hearing officer may be appealed to the
superior court.
   (D)   In January and July of each year the Superintendent of Police shall
submit a report to the Board of Police Commissioners and the Board of Aldermen
regarding the effectiveness of this section and any recommendations thereon.
(1967 Code, § 19-6.1) (Ord. passed 2-20-1990) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.42 OBSTRUCTING GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person lawfully occupying a part of any street while excavating or
erecting a building shall obstruct the street gutters or retard the flow of
water.
(1967 Code, § 19-7) Penalty, see §
99.99
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 99.55 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The owner, tenant, occupant or any person having the care of any land or
buildings fronting on any street or public place where there is any paved
sidewalk, shall, after the cessation of any storm of snow, ice or sleet, if in
the daytime, within four hours, and if the nighttime, before 9:00 a.m. cause
the same to be removed from the paved sidewalk, and, if the same cannot be
wholly removed, shall sprinkle thereon sand or other proper substance, so that
the paved sidewalk shall be safe for travel, and in default thereof as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The provisions of this section shall apply to the falling
of snow from any building and also to any footway or sidewalk on any bridge
spanning any railroad in the city.
(1967 Code, § 19-2) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
99.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to require snow and ice removal, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-
148(c)(6)(C)(v)
§ 99.56 LIABILITY OF CITY FOR ICE AND SNOW ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The provisions of P.A. 81-340 are hereby adopted and set forth in this
section. This section is intended to expand the protection from liability that
the city already possesses through the operation of the Charter § 11B-2. This
section shall, in no way, be construed to limit the protection conferred upon
the city by Charter § 11B-2. No provisions of this section shall be
inconsistent with the provisions of the Charter § 11B-2. If any inconsistencies
arise, the provisions of the Charter § 11B-2, shall prevail over any provisions
contained in this section.
   (B)   The city shall not be liable to any person who sustains injury to self
or property by virtue of the presence of ice or snow on a public sidewalk
unless the city owns or is in possession and control of land abutting the
sidewalk, other than land used as a public street or highway. However, the city
shall be liable for its affirmative acts with respect to any sidewalk.
   (C)   The owner or person in possession and control of land abutting a
public sidewalk shall have a duty of exercising reasonable care to keep the
sidewalk free of dangerous conditions caused by the accumulation of ice or snow
thereon and shall be liable to any person who sustains injury to self or
property where a breach of the duty is the proximate cause of the injury.
   (D)   No action to recover damages for injury to person or property caused
by the presence of ice or snow on a public sidewalk shall be brought, but
within two years from the date when the injury was first sustained. Appropriate
notice of any claimed injury must be given to the City Clerk within 90 days of
the occurrence. The notice must conform with the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 13a-149.
(1967 Code, § 19-2a) (Ord. passed 12-7-1981)
§ 99.57 SNOW AND ICE NOT TO BE SHOVELED INTO STREET.
   No person shall throw or place or cause to be thrown or placed, any ice or
snow into any street or public grounds within the city from any private
driveways, lands or property.
(1967 Code, § 19-3) Penalty, see §
99.99
STREET OPENINGS
§ 99.70 LICENSE REQUIRED TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   The Board of Public Works shall issue licenses to persons as may be deemed
competent by that Board to make all necessary connections with gas mains, water
mains, steam supply pipes, public sewers or for any other lawful purpose.
(1967 Code, § 19-46)
§ 99.71 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall make, or cause to be made, any opening, aperture or
excavation for any purpose whatever, in any street or sidewalk, without
permission from the Superintendent of Streets, upon written application
therefor, as provided in Title XI of this code.
(1967 Code, § 19-47)
   (B)   Before permission shall be granted for any opening, aperture or
excavation in any paved or unpaved street or in any sidewalk, the person making
the application shall deposit with the city a fee as set forth in the schedule
of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the
city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each opening of not more than 100 feet in length. Where
excavation is to be in any sidewalk or paved street, additional fee amounts are
to be based on prevailing market prices.
(1967 Code, § 19-48)
(Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 5-22-1989; Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty,
see §
99.99
§ 99.72 INSURANCE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No person, with the exception of firms or corporations subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission of the state shall be granted a
permit to make and shall not make any excavation or opening in any street or
highway in the city to install a sewer, water main, steam supply pipes, gas
mains or for any other lawful purpose unless the person shall, at his expense,
provide and furnish to the city a certificate of public liability insurance
including blasting operations issued to them by an insurance company approved
by the Insurance Commissioner of the state and registered and authorized to do
business in the state. The insurance policy shall be for a period of one year
and shall contain a five-day written notice requirement to the city before it
can be cancelled, and it shall be stipulated therein that at all times during
the year there shall be a coverage for personal injuries of not less than
$100,000 for one person, and $300,000 for each accident, and for property
damage of not less than $50,000 for each accident and $100,000 aggregate. The
policy shall be so written that the coverage afforded thereby shall extend to
cover the liability of the named insured for bodily injuries and damage to
properties caused by the negligence of the insured in making excavations,
openings, connections or refillings in any street or highway in the city, in
addition, the insurance policy shall state that the person shall protect, in
all legal actions, indemnify and hold harmless the city from and against any
and all claims and losses to persons and property to which the city may be put,
or subjected to, by reason of any act, action, neglect or omission or default
on the part of the person or any of his subcontractors, officers, agents,
servants or employees in connection with the making of connections, openings or
refillings in streets or highways in the city, and for a period of one year
after the connection, opening or refilling is completed. The insurance policy
shall be approved as to form by the corporation counsel. All of such work shall
be done in accordance with the Charter, this code and the ordinances of the
city.
(1967 Code, § 19-49) (Ord. passed 6-22-1966) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.73 AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works has authority to promulgate rules,
regulations and/or specifications by which the city can regulate the terms and
manner of the opening and excavating of streets, as well as storm drain and
sewer connections.
   (B)   The rules and regulations would be established by the Board of Public
Works, subject to approval by the Board of Aldermen and would be based on
standard trade practice.
(1967 Code, § 19-50) (Ord. passed 5-22-1989)
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
§ 99.74 GUARDING AND LIGHTING OF EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   When any excavation is made in any street, the person by or for whom
the excavation is made, shall cause a rail or other sufficient fence to be
placed and fixed so as to enclose the excavation, and the earth, gravel or
other material thrown into the street therefrom; and the fence shall be
continued during the whole time the excavations shall be open.
   (B)   A sufficient number of lights to provide for public safety shall be
fixed to some part of the fence, or in some other proper manner over or near
such excavation, and the earth, gravel or other material taken from the same,
and so kept from the beginning of the twilight of the evening through the whole
of the night, and shall be continued every evening and night during all the
time the excavation shall be open or in state of repair, and such person or
persons shall obey any order of the Superintendent of Streets with regard to
the number or positions of the lanterns.
(1967 Code, § 19-51) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.75 EXCAVATION TO PROVIDE SAFE PASSAGE AROUND.
   Any person duly licensed or permitted to occupy any part of any street,
while erecting or repairing any building, or making excavations in any street,
for any purpose, shall provide safe and convenient passage around or over the
same for public travel, and shall keep the passage free from stone, earth,
bricks or any other material which shall be a hinderance to public travel, and
shall obey any order of the Superintendent of Streets in relation thereto.
(1967 Code, § 19-52) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no
other fine is provided, shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and/or shall be summoned or brought to community court
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior court judge assigned to
the community court may impose a penalty of community service, a fine as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or other penalty permitted by law. Each day any violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
99.41 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each such offense, and/or shall be summoned or brought
to community court pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d), The superior
court judge assigned to the community court may impose a penalty of community
service, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or other penalty permitted by law.
(1967 Code, § 19-6.1)
(Ord. passed 2-20-1990; Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 100: MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Operations prohibited
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle designed to travel over
unimproved terrain
that has been determined by the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles to be unsuitable
for operation on the public highways and is not eligible for registration under
Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 246.
   DIRT BIKE. a two-wheeled motorized recreational vehicle designed to travel
over unimproved terrain and not designed for travel on a highway, as defined in
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1. DIRT BIKE does not include an all-terrain vehicle, as
defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-379, or a motor-driven cycle, as defined in
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1.
   MINI CYCLE. Pocketbikes, miniature (hereafter “mini”) bikes, mini cycles,
mini sport bikes, mini motorcycles, chopper scooters, and any other similar
wheeled vehicle designed to transport one or more persons that is powered by
any type of motor.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Any motorcycle, motor scooter, or bicycle with an
attached motor, with a seat height of not less than 26 inches, and a motor
having a capacity of less than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement.
   OPERATE. To control the course of or otherwise use a dirt bike, snowmobile,
all-terrain vehicle, motor-driven cycle, mini-cycle, or similar vehicle.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
except vehicles propelled by sail.
   The terms DIRT BIKE, SNOWMOBILE, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE,
and MINICYCLE shall not be deemed to include any of the following:
      (1)   Any registered “motorcycle” as defined in the Conn. Gen. Stat. §
14-1(46);
      (2)   Any registered “motor vehicle” as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-
1(47);
      (3)   Any moped that meets Federal Department of Transportation
guidelines for use on streets and is approved by the State of Connecticut
Department of Motor Vehicles for use on streets, provided, however, the moped
is operated pursuant to all applicable state laws, rules, and regulations and
all other City of Waterbury Municipal Ordinances;
      (4)   Any wheelchair or similar mobility assisting device utilized by a
person with a physical disability or whose ambulatory mobility has been
impaired due to age or physical ailment;
      (5)   Any self-propelled snow plow, snow blower or lawn mower when used
for the purpose for which it was designed and operated at a speed not to exceed
four miles per hour;
      (6)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the City of Waterbury; and
      (7)   Any electric personal assistive mobility device (hereinafter
“EPAMD”) that is self-balancing, has two non-tandem wheeled devices, is
designed to transport only one person, and has an electric propulsion system
that limits the maximum speed of the device to 12.5 miles per hour or less.
   For the purposes of §§ 100.02 and 100.99 of this chapter, the terms DIRT
BIKE, SNOWMOBILE, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE, and MINI CYCLE as
defined in this section, shall be collectively referred to as MOTORIZED
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE(S).
(Ord. passed 6-8-2015)
§ 100.02 OPERATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized
recreational vehicle and/or for any owner of a motorized recreational vehicle
to knowingly permit the operation of his or her motorized recreational vehicle
on any street or sidewalk in the City of Waterbury or on any public property,
including but not limited to school property, playgrounds and parks, within the
city or any property owned by the City of Waterbury that is outside of the City
of Waterbury.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride as a passenger on a
motorized recreational vehicle and/or for any owner of a motorized recreational
vehicle to knowingly permit any person to ride as a passenger on his/her
motorized recreational vehicle operated in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized
recreational vehicle, ride as a passenger on a motorized recreational vehicle,
and/or for any owner of a motorized recreational vehicle to knowingly permit
its operation on any private property, within the City of Waterbury, without
first obtaining the written permission of the property owner if the property is
not owned by the operator, passenger, and/or owner of the motorized
recreational vehicle. A permitted operator of a motorized recreational may not
operate that vehicle on private property in violation of division (D) of this
section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized recreational vehicle, to
ride as a passenger on a motorized recreational vehicle, and/or for any owner
of a motorized recreational vehicle to knowingly permit its operation on
private property before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. on weekdays, or before 9:
00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on weekends.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an EPAMD and/or for any
owner of an EPAMD to knowingly permit the operation of his/her EPAMD on any
street in the City of Waterbury, provided, however, an EPAMD may be operated on
any public sidewalk and/or crosswalk in the City of Waterbury. An operator of
an EPAMD shall yield to pedestrians and any wheelchair or similar mobility-
assisting device as defined within this chapter and shall comply with any
applicable State of Connecticut laws or regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates a motorized recreational vehicle in violation
of §
100.02(A) of this chapter, or is the owner of a motorized recreational vehicle
who knowingly permits its operation in violation of §
100.02(A) of this chapter, may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000, but not
less than $500 for a first offense, may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,500,
but not less than $1,000 for a second offense, or may be fined a sum not to
exceed $2,000, but not less than $1,000 for any third or subsequent offense.
   (B)   Any person who rides as a passenger on a motorized recreational
vehicle in violation of §
100.02(B) of this chapter, or is the owner of a motorized recreational vehicle
who knowingly permits a passenger to ride on his/her recreational motor vehicle
in violation of §
100.02(B) of this chapter , may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000, but not
less than $500 for a first offense, may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,500,
but not less than $1,000 for a second offense, or may be fined a sum not to
exceed $2,000, but not less than$1,000 for any third or subsequent offense.
   (C)   Any person who operates a motorized recreational vehicle in violation
of §
100.02(C) of this chapter, rides as a passenger on a recreational motor vehicle
in violation of §
100.02(C) of this chapter, or is the owner of a motorized recreational vehicle
who knowingly permits its operation in violation of §
100.02(C) of this chapter may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000, but not less
than $500 for a first offense, may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,500, but not
less than $1,000 for a second offense, or may be fined a sum not to exceed
$2,000, but not less than $1,000 for any third or subsequent offense.
   (D)   Any person who operates a motorized recreational vehicle in violation
of §
100.02(D) of this chapter, rides as a passenger on a recreational motor vehicle
in violation of §
100.02(D) of this chapter, or is the owner of a recreational motorized vehicle
who knowingly permits its operation in violation of §
100.02(D) of this chapter may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000, but not less
than $500 for a first offense, may be fined a sum not to exceed $1,500, but not
less than $1,000 for a second offense, or may be fined a sum not to exceed
$2,000, but not less than $1,000 for any third or subsequent offense.
   (E)   Any person who operates an EPAMD in violation of §
100.02(D) of this chapter, or is the owner of an EPAMD who knowingly permits
its operation in violation of §
100.02(D) of this chapter, may be fined a sum not to exceed $100, but not less
than $50 for a first offense, may be fined a sum not to exceed $200, but not
less than $100 for a second offense, or may be fined a sum not to exceed $300,
but not less than $200 for any third or subsequent offense.
   (F)   A police officer who observes any person in violation of any division
of §
100.02 of this chapter may detain such person for purposes of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and may take the motorized recreational vehicle in
question into the custody of the Waterbury Police Department, at the owner’s
expense, pending a disposition of such property by court order or otherwise by
law and shall issue a citation imposing a fine in an amount authorized by this
ordinance pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148b.
   (G)   Before the owner or person in charge of an impounded motorized
recreational vehicle or EPAMD shall be permitted to remove the vehicle from
impoundment, he or she shall furnish to Waterbury Police Department, or such
other person as the Chief of Police shall designate, evidence of his or her
registration and ownership, shall sign a receipt for such vehicle, and shall
pay the cost of impoundment. Such owner or person in charge of an impounded
motorized recreational vehicle or EPAMD shall obtain a written release from the
Waterbury Police Department on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police prior
to the release of such impounded motorized recreational vehicle or EPAMD. The
Waterbury Police Department shall refuse the release of any motorized
recreational vehicle or EPAMD lawfully seized that the Chief of Police or his
designee has authorized to hold as evidence in a criminal investigation or
proceeding.
   (H)   Posting by all terrain vehicle dealers. Each motorized recreational
vehicle dealer offering for sale, lease or rental of new motorized recreational
vehicles within the City of Waterbury shall post this chapter in a prominent
location at said dealer’s place of business. Any motorized recreational vehicle
dealer who violates any provision of this section shall have committed an
infraction. For a first violation, the Chief of Police or his or her designee
shall issue a written warning providing notice of the specific violation and
the time period within which it shall be corrected. If the motorized
recreational vehicle dealer receiving the written warning fails to correct the
violation within the time period specified in the warning, the Chief of Police
or his or her designee shall issue a fine of $99. Any continuing violation that
is discovered during any subsequent re-inspection shall result in a fine of
$99. Each re-inspection at which a violation is discovered shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (I)   Penalties; liability. Except as otherwise provided, any person who
violates any of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 14-379 to 14-390, inclusive, or any
regulation relating thereto shall have committed an infraction for each such
offense. In addition thereto the operator or owner, or both of a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle, shall be responsible and held accountable to the owner of
any land where trees, shrubs, crops, fences or other property have been damaged
as a result of travel of such snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles over such
land, or where consequential damage has resulted from such travel.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
         
111.   ADVERTISING
         
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
113.   AUCTIONS
         
114.   BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
         
115.   BINGO
         
116.   CLOSING OUT SALES
         
117.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
         
118.   PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
         
119.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
120.   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES
         
121.   PAWNBROKERS
         
122.   BARBERSHOPS, HAIRDRESSING AND COSMETOLOGY SHOPS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required of certain persons
   
110.02   Licenses to be issued by Superintendent of Police; fees
   
110.03   Application; forms to be furnished
   
110.04   Issuance or referral to Board
   
110.05   How signed; payment of fees
   
110.06   Conditions of issuance
   
110.07   Records
   
110.08   Term; renewal; transfer
   
110.09   Revocation
   
110.10   Appeals
   
110.11   Licenses not to authorize illegal acts
   
110.12   Waiver of fees for city work
Cross-reference:
   Rooming houses, see §§
154.105 through
154.114
Statutory reference:
   Licenses generally, see Con. Gen. Stat. §§ 21-1 through 21-63
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED OF CERTAIN PERSONS.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any occupation, calling,
undertaking or trade hereinafter mentioned shall, before engaging in the
occupation, calling, undertaking or trade, procure a license from the proper
authority mentioned in this chapter and pay to him the license fee as set forth
in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
(1967 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 LICENSES TO BE ISSUED BY SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE; FEES.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall issue licenses and collect fees for the
following:
      (1)   Amusement parks;
      (2)   Baseball parks;
      (3)   Bowling alleys;
      (4)   Boxing and wrestling matches;
      (5)   Carnivals;
      (6)   Circuses and wild west shows;
      (7)   Coin-operated mechanical amusement devices;
      (8)   Concealed weapons;
      (9)   Concerts and performances;
      (10)   Dances;
      (11)   Hucksters;
      (12)   Junk dealers;
      (13)   Merry-go-round;
      (14)   Pawnbrokers;
      (15)   Peddlers and itinerant vendors;
      (16)   Walking parade vendors;
      (17)   Pool rooms;
      (18)   Public museums, exhibitions and displays;
      (19)   Secondhand dealers;
      (20)   Shooting gallery;
      (21)   Slot weighing machines; and
      (22)   Theaters.
   (B)   The fees for the licenses shall be set forth in the schedule of fees
and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
(1967 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION; FORMS TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Every application for a license required by this code or other
ordinance shall be signed by the person to whom the license or permit is to be
issued, or his authorized agent, and shall specify the time or times and place
or places for which the license or permit is desired, the particular nature of
the act or acts to be done, and such other particulars as may be granted and
will be used in accordance with law, and the application shall be numbered and
kept on file by the officer to whom directed.
(1967 Code, § 10-10)
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen shall, by committee or otherwise, provide
suitable records, forms and blanks for every license and permit required by
this code and other ordinances, and for the application therefor. The
application blank shall be furnished to the applicants by the proper officer
authorized to issue each license or permit.
(1967 Code, § 10-9)
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OR REFERRAL TO BOARD.
   (A)   If any officer is authorized to issue the license or permit in his own
discretion, he shall issue the same unless to do so would be detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the public; but if the matter is to be first
decided by any board, he shall present the application before the board with
the information on the subject as he may possess, or if he is in doubt in the
matter as to whether the application should be refused, he may lay the
application before the board having cognizance of appeal and shall follow the
direction of the board.
   (B)   Where the matter is to be decided by any board, the board shall, if
the license or permit applied for is denied or refused, set forth in the
minutes of its meeting the reason or reasons for the denial or refusal.
(1967 Code, § 10-11) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971)
§ 110.05 HOW SIGNED; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Every license or permit provided for by this code or other ordinances shall
be signed by the proper officer or officers authorized to issue the same, and
the fee, if any is designated therefor, shall be paid to and collected by the
officer or authority, for the use of the City Treasurer, before the license or
permit shall be in force. When a license or permit is required and no other
officer is designated to issue the same, it shall be issued by the Mayor.
(1967 Code, § 10-12)
§ 110.06 CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE.
   All such licenses shall be numbered and shall contain a condition that every
person acting under the same shall conform to the representation of the
application therefor and to the provisions of this code and other ordinances of
the city applicable to the subject matter therefor, and such other forms and
reasonable conditions as the particular circumstances of each case shall, in
the judgment of the authority issuing the license or permit, require in the
protection of the health, safety or welfare of the public.
(1967 Code, § 10-13) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971)
§ 110.07 RECORDS.
   Every officer authorized to issue licenses or permits as aforesaid shall, in
a record book kept by him for that purpose, enter a memorandum of every license
or permit issued by him, with the number, the date, the name of the person to
whom issued, the purpose for which it is issued, the time when it will expire,
in case any time is limited, any special condition included therein and the
amount of fee charged therefor.
(1967 Code, § 10-14)
§ 110.08 TERM; RENEWAL; TRANSFER.
   No license or permit shall be given or be in force for a longer time than
one year and licenses for trades and occupations shall terminate on December
31, next following the issue of the same, unless otherwise herein provided. The
licenses and permits for trade and occupation may be renewed to the same person
for the same place or places. The licenses and permits shall not be transferred
to a different person or place, except as provided in this code or other
ordinances.
(1967 Code, § 10-16)
§ 110.09 REVOCATION.
   The officer or authority empowered to issue any such license or permit may,
at any time, revoke the same for any breach of the terms or conditions thereof,
upon giving to the person to whom the same is issued, notice of the revocation,
and making a record thereof and, from the time of the notice, any act done
under color of the license or permit shall subject the person doing or
suffering it to be done, to the same penalty as if he had done the act without
the license or permit, unless the revocation is disapproved as hereinafter
provided.
(1967 Code, § 10-17)
§ 110.10 APPEALS.
   If any person shall feel aggrieved by the neglect or refusal of any officer
to issue the license or permit applied for, or by the terms or conditions
therein imposed, or by any revocation of the license or permit as aforesaid, he
may appeal to the board having cognizance of the matter, upon giving notice to
the officer within one week thereafter, and until the terms, conditions or
revocations are disapproved by the board, they shall be binding on the
appellant, and the board may order such modifications as they deem proper, not
inconsistent with this code and other ordinances. If no other board has
supervision of the subject matter, it shall be referred to the Board of
Aldermen.
(1967 Code, § 10-18)
§ 110.11 LICENSES NOT TO AUTHORIZE ILLEGAL ACTS.
   No license or permit shall authorize or excuse any breach of law or any
trespass upon the rights of others or render the city liable for any damage
than may be committed or caused under color therefor.
(1967 Code, § 10-15)
§ 110.12 WAIVER OF FEES FOR CITY WORK.
   No fee for the issuance of city permits for the performance of any work
under any contract entered into between the city and any other person shall be
charged. This shall not apply to personal licenses issued under authority of
this code or the ordinances for the practice of the various trades, nor shall
it, in any way, affect the standards of performance called for by the existing
or future ordinances.
(1967 Code, § 10-19)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Quantity offered to be stated in advertising
   
111.02   Restrictions on quantity per person to be stated
   
111.03   Advertised items to be sold
   
111.04   Advertising to be discontinued after sale
Cross-reference:
   Distributing advertising; lots to be kept free from litter, see §
99.18
   General licensing, see
Chapter 110
   Posting bills or notices, see § 
130.04
   Putting unsolicited advertising in letter boxes, see § 
130.05
Statutory reference:
   Untrue and misleading advertisements, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 42-110b
§ 111.01 QUANTITY OFFERED TO BE STATED IN ADVERTISING.
   No person doing business in the city with intent to sell or dispose of
merchandise, shall advertise for sale in a newspaper or other advertising
medium, or display signs advertising for sale, any merchandise or article of
merchandise unless the advertisement or sign shall state the number or quantity
of the merchandise or article of merchandise to be offered for sale, except
that, when the quantity of each article of merchandise so advertised shall be
less in value than $25, it shall not be necessary to state the number or
quantity of the merchandise or articles of merchandise to be offered for sale.
(1967 Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor's note:
   In order to reflect the legislative intent of this section, and with the
city's approval, the editor revised a portion of the text. The original text of
1967 Code, § 3-4 read, in part, "...merchandise so advertised shall exceed in
value $25...".
§ 111.02 RESTRICTIONS ON QUANTITY PER PERSON TO BE STATED.
   No merchandise or article of merchandise, advertised for sale in the manner
specified in the preceding section shall be restricted as to the number or
quantity a person may buy unless the advertisement shall state the number or
quantity that a person may buy.
(1967 Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 ADVERTISED ITEMS TO BE SOLD.
   No merchandise or article of merchandise, advertised for sale in the manner
above specified, shall be refused any customer for the advertised price during
the period for which the merchandise is advertised as long as the merchandise
or article of merchandise shall remain unsold.
(1967 Code, § 3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 ADVERTISING TO BE DISCONTINUED AFTER SALE.
   When the merchandise or article of merchandise advertised for sale in the
manner above specified shall have been disposed of, the newspaper advertising
or other medium of advertising shall be immediately discontinued or removed.
(1967 Code, § 3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages
§ 112.01 SUNDAY SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The sale or consumption, or the presence in glasses or other receptacles
suitable to permit the consumption of liquor by an individual, of alcoholic
liquor in hotels, restaurants and clubs having a liquor permit, is permitted
with meals on Sundays, between the hours of 12:00 noon and 9:00 p.m.
(1967 Code, § 13-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   City authorized to permit Sunday sales between certain hours, see Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 30-91
CHAPTER 113: AUCTIONS
Section
   
113.01   Auctioneer's license; fee
   
113.02   Jewelry auction license and fee
   
113.03   Exemptions
Charter reference:
   Authorizing Board of Aldermen to regulate the sale of goods by public
auction, see Charter § 3A-3(e)
Statutory reference:
   Auctioneers, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 21-1 through 21-5a
   Authorizing city to regulate auctions, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7)(H)
(iii)
§ 113.01 AUCTIONEER'S LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   All persons licensed to sell at auction under the provisions of Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 21-2, shall pay therefor a license fee as provided in §
116.07.
   (B)   The fee shall be turned over to the Tax Collector who shall deposit
the same with the City Treasurer to the account of the city.
(1967 Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization of city to license nonresident auctioneers, see Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 21-1
§ 113.02 JEWELRY AUCTION LICENSE AND FEE.
   (A)   All persons licensed by the Commissioner of State Police to sell
jewelry at auction under the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 21-3 shall, in
addition thereto, secure a license from the Mayor to sell jewelry at auction
and shall pay therefor a license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Said fee shall be for each day for the period of the
license.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid to the Mayor and shall be turned over by him to
the Tax Collector, who shall deposit the same with the City Treasurer to the
account of the city.
   (C)   The fees shall be used for the employment of a police officer or
officers and for a jewelry expert, appointed by the Mayor in order to prevent
fraud from being perpetrated upon the public.
(1967 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any auction held under the
direction of any executor or administrator in the process of settling his
decedent's estate or to an auction held according to the provisions of any
court order.
(1967 Code, § 3-3)
CHAPTER 114: BAZAARS AND RAFFLES
Section
   
114.01   State law adopted
§ 114.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-170 through 7-186, inclusive, the
Bazaar and Raffle Law, are adopted by reference and incorporated in this
chapter as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1967 Code, § 3A-1) (Ord. passed 9-19-1988)
CHAPTER 115: BINGO
Section
   
115.01   Permit required; application
   
115.02   Investigation of premises for fire hazards
   
115.03   Alcoholic liquors not to be served
   
115.04   Children on premises
   
115.05   Prizes
   
115.06   Revocation of permit; time restriction on reissuance
   
115.07   Time restriction on reissuance of fraudulently obtained permit
Charter reference:
   Authority of Board of Aldermen to regulate or license sports exhibitions and
public amusements, see Charter § 3A-2(g)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to license and regulate bingo, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-
169
§ 115.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Any person or organization desiring a permit to operate or promote bingo
games pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-169, or a renewal of
the permit, shall make a sworn application therefor upon forms to be supplied
by the Superintendent of Police which shall contain the information required by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-169(e) and any other pertinent information required by the
Superintendent of Police. Every applicant for a "Class A" permit shall submit
his application to the Superintendent of Police at least seven days prior to
the date for which the permit is desired.
(1967 Code, § 4-1)
§ 115.02 INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES FOR FIRE HAZARDS.
   Upon receipt of any application for a permit to operate or promote bingo
games, the Superintendent of Police shall transmit a copy of the application to
the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal of the Fire Department, who shall, thereupon,
inspect the premises for which the application is sought and who shall
determine the safety of the premises for the congregation of the number of
individuals reflected by the seating capacity for the class of permit applied
for. The Fire Chief or Fire Marshal shall inspect and consider the size of the
hall, room or place, the nature of the construction of the building in which it
is located, its proximity to other buildings and structures and the nature
thereof, the number and character of its fire escapes, fire extinguishers and
exits and such other factors as he shall consider pertinent from the viewpoint
of safety and the hazards of fire. After completing the inspection, the Fire
Chief or Fire Marshal of the Fire Department shall submit to the Superintendent
of Police a report as to all the facts and conditions disclosed by the
investigation, together with their comments and recommendations based thereon
as to whether in the interests of public safety a permit should be issued to
the applicant. If, after the report, a permit is issued by the Superintendent
of Police, the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal of the Fire Department or his
authorized representative shall, from time to time, re-inspect and re-examine
the premises for which the permit was issued for the purposes and in accordance
with the standards hereinbefore set forth and, after periodic re-inspections
and re-examinations, he shall submit reports of his findings to the
Superintendent of Police with his comments and recommendations.
(1967 Code, § 4-2)
§ 115.03 ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS NOT TO BE SERVED.
   (A)   Bingo games shall not be played, promoted or operated in any hall,
room or place in which alcoholic liquors are kept, sold, dispensed, served or
consumed.
   (B)   When bingo games are played out of doors, no alcoholic liquors shall
be kept, sold, dispensed or consumed within 100 feet of the place where bingo
games are being played.
(1967 Code, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 CHILDREN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No permittee, by himself or by his agents or servants, shall permit
any person between the ages of 12 and 16, unless accompanied by his parents or
some adult, to enter or be in any hall, room or place in which the permittee is
operating or promoting bingo games, and no person under the age of 12 shall be
permitted to participate or assist in the conduct, management or promotion of
the games.
   (B)   No permittee, by himself or by his agents or servants shall permit any
child under the age of 12 years to enter or be in any hall, room, or place in
which the permittee is operating or promoting bingo games.
(1967 Code, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.05 PRIZES.
   All prizes awarded at bingo games shall be of the type, quality and
character previously advertised or represented and shall be, at all times, on
public display and open to free and full public examination.
(1967 Code, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Limitation as to prizes, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-169(i)
§ 115.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; TIME RESTRICTION ON REISSUANCE.
   Upon the violation of any section of this chapter by any permittee, either
directly or by any of his, or its servants or agents, the Superintendent of
Police shall immediately revoke the permit of the permittee and shall not issue
any permit to the permittee within one year from the date of the revocation.
(1967 Code, § 4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-169(k)
§ 115.07 TIME RESTRICTION ON REISSUANCE OF FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINED PERMIT.
   In the event that any permittee obtains his permit by fraud or false
representations or with intent to circumvent the provisions of this chapter, or
the state statutes on the matter, he will be disqualified from again obtaining
the permit for a period of one year thereafter.
(1967 Code, § 4-8)
CHAPTER 116: CLOSING OUT SALES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Application of provisions
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   Application and information required
   
116.05   Term
   
116.06   Conditions
   
116.07   Fees
   
116.08   Revocation or suspension
   
116.09   Merchandise ordered in contemplation of sale to be excluded
   
116.10   Duties of licensee
   
116.11   Verification of inventory
   
116.12   Continuing business after sale
   
116.13   Interval between sales
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE AND OTHER ALTERED GOODS SALE. A sale held out in the manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on
hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not limited
to, the following sales: adjuster's; adjustment alteration; assignee's;
bankrupt; benefit of creditors; building coming down; closing; creditor's
committee; creditor's; end; final days; flood damage; forced out; forced out of
business; last days; lease expires; loss of lease; mortgage sales; receiver's;
trustee's; quitting business.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of Police.
   LIQUIDATION SALE. A sale held out in a manner as to reasonably cause the
public to believe that the merchandise offered for sale was acquired by the
licensee from a bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, liquidator, adjuster,
administrator, trustee, executor or receiver, or that the merchandise was
acquired by the licensee from a person who was or is liquidating or closing out
his business or a particular part or department thereof or who was or is being
forced out of business.
   MERCHANDISE. Any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of
being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in a manner as to reasonably cause
the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods
on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the
city.
(1967 Code, § 3-8)
§ 116.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or effect the following
persons:
   (A)   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction;
   (D)   Any operator of a newspaper, news or advertising medium, who
publishes, in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge of its false,
deceptive or misleading character or with knowledge that the provisions of this
chapter have not been complied with; and
   (E)   Persons who are regularly engaged, in whole or in part, in the
business of purchasing damaged or unclaimed merchandise from railroad and
transportation companies and of selling the same at retail and whose
advertising clearly indicates the regular, and continuance rather than the
periodic and intermittent, operation of the business; provided, however, that
this exception shall extend only to the sale of the merchandise.
(1967 Code, § 3-20)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct any sale of merchandise at retail in the city which
shall be advertised or held out by any means as a going-out-of-business-sale, a
removal-of-business sale, a fire or other altered stock sale or liquidation
sale, and no person shall advertise any such sale, unless and until a license
shall have been issued to the person by the licensing authority, which license
shall be known as a "closing-out-sale license". The advertising of such a sale
referred to herein shall include any advertisement or notice thereof appearing
in any newspaper, magazine or other publication, or in any handbill, poster,
bill, circular, pamphlet, letter, sign, placard, card, label or telegram, or
broadcast as a part of any radio or television program.
(1967 Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Application for a closing-out sale license shall be made in writing to the
licensing authority and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The names and addresses of the persons to be licensed including the
names of all partners and, if a corporation, the names and addresses of the
officers and directors thereof;
   (B)   The name and address of the owner of the merchandise to be sold under
the license if the applicant is acting as an agent of the owner;
   (C)   An attached inventory containing a complete and accurate list of the
merchandise on hand which is to be sold under the license, except as
hereinafter mentioned, which shall set forth the cost price of the enumerated
articles, and at the discretion of the licensing authority, the manufacturer's
name and stock number, the date of the purchase and the name of the person from
whom the articles were purchased. If the merchandise to be sold under the
license was purchased for a lump sum so that it is not practicable to list the
cost price thereof, the inventory shall state the lump sum paid therefor. The
inventory shall have an affidavit attached thereto from which it shall appear
that the information set forth therein is true to the knowledge of the
applicant. In those businesses wherein trade-ins are considered as part of the
usual course of business, the trade-ins shall be considered part of the
original inventory as herein mentioned; provided that, at the end of each week,
during the period of the license hereof, the licensee shall, under oath, make
written statements to the Superintendent of Police describing the trade-ins and
setting forth the name and residence of the person from whom the trade-in was
received;
   (D)   The place at which the sale is to be conducted;
   (E)   The date and the period of time during which the sale is to continue;
   (F)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale and
the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
   (G)   The means to be employed in advertising the sale together with the
proposed content of any advertisements; and
   (H)   Facts establishing that all taxes previously levied on the merchandise
by the city have been paid and no license shall be issued for the closing-out
sale thereof until any tax so payable to the city thereon shall have been paid.
(1967 Code, § 3-10)
§ 116.05 TERM.
   The license to be issued hereunder shall be for a period as may be requested
by the applicant in his application for the license not exceeding 60 successive
days, Sundays and holidays excluded, from the date of the issuance of the
license. If a license shall have been issued for a period less than the maximum
license period, the license may be extended on application of the license for a
further period which, with the original license period, will not exceed the
maximum license period upon payment of an additional license fee which shall be
the difference between the license fee previously paid and that which would
have been paid thereunder if the original license period had extended to the
date to which the same shall be extended.
(1967 Code, § 3-11)
§ 116.06 CONDITIONS.
   Under any closing-out sale license, the licensee shall be permitted to
conduct only the type of sale described by him in his application for the
license and shall be authorized to sell, under the license, only the
merchandise described in the inventory attached to the application.
(1967 Code, § 3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07 FEES.
   The license fee for the license provided hereunder shall be as set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 3-13) (Ord. passed 5-9-1977; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 116.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The licensing authority may, at any time, revoke or suspend any license
granted hereunder if any licensee shall, in violation of this chapter, offer
any merchandise for sale in addition to that listed in the inventory attached
to his application or shall otherwise violate any of the provisions of this
chapter and shall, in addition, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1967 Code, § 3-14)
§ 116.09 MERCHANDISE ORDERED IN CONTEMPLATION OF SALE TO BE EXCLUDED.
   If the sale to be conducted under the license is a going-out-of-business
sale or a removal-of-business sale, the inventory shall not include merchandise
ordered in contemplation of the conduct of the sale licensed hereunder, and any
abnormal purchase or additions to the stock of goods of the applicant within a
period of 60 days prior to the date of the application for a license hereunder,
or any purchases or additions which shall exceed 50% of the personal property
assessed in the name of the applicant on the last completed grand list of the
city shall be deemed to be of such character. During the licensed closing-out
sale, no additions shall be made to the stock of merchandise set forth in the
inventory and nothing shall be offered for sale or sold at the sale which is in
addition to that listed in the inventory or which has been acquired on a
consignment basis.
(1967 Code, § 3-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.10 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee hereunder shall:
   (A)   Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever, during the period
of the license sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached
to the application for license;
   (B)   Make an advertising declaration. Declare in his advertising of the
sale the total retail value of the merchandise set forth in the inventory which
is being offered for sale under the license;
   (C)   Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity
with any advertising or holding out incident thereto;
   (D)   Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or
misleading advertising;
   (E)   Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a
duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and shall
present the duplicate to inspection officials upon request; and
   (F)   Segregate noninventorial goods. Keep any other goods separate and
apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and
shall make a distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all inventoried
goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the status of all
goods.
(1967 Code, § 3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.11 VERIFICATION OF INVENTORY.
   The Superintendent of Police shall verify the details of the inventory filed
in connection with an application for the license and shall also verify the
items of merchandise sold during any sale under the license, and it shall be
unlawful for any person, to whom a "closing-out sale license" has been issued
to refuse to furnish to the Superintendent of Police on demand or to any person
designated by him for that purpose, all the facts connected with the stock on
hand or any other information which he may require in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(1967 Code, § 3-17)
§ 116.12 CONTINUING BUSINESS AFTER SALE.
   If the licensee shall continue in business at the location at which the
closing-out sale was conducted after the termination of the license period, the
licensee shall discontinue any further advertising of the sale and shall remove
from the premises and from the merchandise licensed to be sold under the
license all and every kind of advertising of the sale.
(1967 Code, § 3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.13 INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES.
   Any person who has held a going-out-of-business or a removal-of-business
sale at the location stated in his application under a license issued hereunder
within a period of one year last past from the date of the application shall
not be granted a license for the conduct of either type of sales at that
location.
(1967 Code, § 3-19)
CHAPTER 117: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Title
   
117.02   Purpose statement
   
117.03   Definitions
   
117.04   Exceptions
   
117.05   Promulgation of rules and regulations
Operator's Permit
   
117.15   Permit required
   
117.16   Application and fee; notification of denial
   
117.17   Issuance of permit
   
117.18   Renewal of permit
   
117.19   Inspections
   
117.20   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
117.21   Notification of suspension or revocation of permit; hearing
   
117.22   Hearing on denial of permit or renewal
   
117.23   Transfer of permit
Masseurs or Masseuse Permit
   
117.35   Permit required
   
117.36   Application; fee
   
117.37   Issuance of permit; notification upon refusal to issue
   
117.38   Renewal of permits
   
117.39   Revocation or suspension of permit
 
   
117.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Massage Establishment
Ordinance" for the city.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.02 PURPOSE STATEMENT.
   It is hereby resolved that the business of operating massage establishments,
as defined in this chapter, is a business affecting the public health, safety
and general welfare, and as such necessitates regulation and control.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons other than the masseurs and masseuses who
render any service in a massage establishment, but have no physical contact
with customers or clients.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of Health in the City of Waterbury.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts of the
body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus
or appliance with or without any such supplementary aids, such as: rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointment or
other similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment by whatever name called, where any
person engages in or carries on or permits to be engaged in or carried on, any
of the activities of massage, as defined in this section, for profit.
   MASSEUR. A male who engages in the practice of massage for any consideration
whatsoever.
   MASSEUSE. A female who engages in the practice of massage for any
consideration whatsoever.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massage at a location designated by the customer or patron rather
than at a massage establishment.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or institution that is recognized by the State
Department of Education or the State Commission on Higher Education, which has
for its purpose the teaching of the theory and practice, the method, profession
or work of massage including anatomy, physiology, hygiene and professional
ethics. The school must require a resident course of study not less than 270
hours to be given not more than three calendar months before the student shall
be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from the school or
institution of learning of successful completion of the course.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE. The Superintendent of the Waterbury Police
Department in the City of Waterbury.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any recognized school, hospital, nursing
home, sanitarium, clinic, rehabilitation facility, non-profit agency, barber
school, operating in accordance with the laws of the state, nor to any person
holding a valid certificate or license to practice message therapy or the
healing arts, or to practice podiatry, physical therapy, midwifery, nursing,
dentistry, dental hygiene or optometry, or to engage in the occupation of
barber, hairdresser or cosmetician under the laws of the state; provided that,
the activities of the person are confined to those for which the certificate or
license is granted, nor shall this chapter apply to any person lawfully acting
under his supervision or control, nor shall it prohibit the furnishing of
assistance in the case of emergency.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.05 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Superintendent of Police and the Health Director shall make and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations not in conflict with, but to carry out the
intent of this chapter. The Superintendent of Police and the Health Director
shall, upon making any regulation or rule, file a copy of the rule or
regulation with the Town Clerk, who shall keep the same in his office in a book
provided for such purpose.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
OPERATOR'S PERMIT
§ 117.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on or permit to be engaged in,
conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the city, the operation of
a massage establishment without first having obtained a permit from the
Superintendent of Police.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.16 APPLICATION AND FEE; NOTIFICATION OF DENIAL.
   (A)   Filing of application; fee. Each applicant for an operator's permit
shall file an application with the Superintendent of Police and pay a filing
fee which shall not be refundable. The fee shall be set, from time to time, by
the Board of Aldermen and a schedule of the fees will be on file in the Town
Clerk's Office.
   (B)   Contents of application. The application for a permit to operate a
massage establishment shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant, and shall set forth:
      (1)   The name and address of each applicant;
      (2)   That the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   The proposed place of business and facilities therein;
      (4)   The exact nature of the massage to be administered;
      (5)   Two portrait photographs of the applicant at least two inches by
two inches and a complete set of the applicant's fingerprints. The fingerprints
shall be taken by the Police Department;
      (6)   Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (7)   Massage or similar business license history of the applicant for
the three years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (8)   Any criminal conviction, except minor motor vehicle violations;
      (9)   Plans for the physical layout of the massage establishment prepared
by a professional architect;
      (10)   If the applicant is not a practitioner of massage then the
application shall designate a permitted practitioner of massage to be the agent
of the principal owner and operator and to be in constant direct and personal
supervision of the establishment;
      (11)   A list of all persons having a beneficial financial interest in
the massage establishment and the amount of each person's interest if 10% or
more. If a corporation holds 10% or more, the names and addresses of the
corporate officers, directors and shareholders;
      (12)   Appropriate certificates, licenses and the like showing proper
compliance with all the applicable rules, regulations, ordinances and statutes
including zoning, building and health laws and regulations;
      (13)   A written statement of operating policies and procedures
pertaining to such matters as times of operation, accessibility, personnel
policies, safety and health of clients and employees; and
      (14)   Such other information as may be required by §
117.05 in order for the Superintendent of Police to carry out the doctrines of
this chapter.
   (C)   Filing of application; notification of denial. Application for a
permit to conduct a massage establishment shall be submitted to the
Superintendent of Police 90 days in advance of the opening for operation of the
establishment. Any permit issued under these regulations shall be valid until
the next renewal date unless suspended or revoked. Upon the denial of an
application for an original permit, the Superintendent of Police shall notify
the applicant in writing of the denial by the mailing of a notice to the
applicant at the address shown on his application.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.17 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Superintendent of Police shall issue a permit to operate a massage
establishment upon receipt of the application upon finding:
   (A)   All requirements concerning operation and facilities described in this
chapter will be complied with as of the effective date of the permit;
   (B)   Compliance with all other statutes, codes or ordinances including
health, zoning, building, fire and safety requirements of the city and the
state as of the effective date of the permit;
   (C)   The nature of the massage administered will not endanger the health or
safety of patrons of the massage establishment;
   (D)   The applicant or any other person directly engaged in the operation or
management of the massage establishment has not been convicted of any felony,
or any offense involving the unauthorized practice of the healing arts, of ill-
fame, solicitation of a lewd or unlawful act, prostitution or pandering, and
has not had a permit to operate a massage establishment suspended or revoked in
this state or any other state; and
   (E)   The applicant has furnished authorization to the Superintendent of
Police to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the
statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant
for permit.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.18 RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit to operate a massage establishment shall be valid for one
year from the date of issuance unless suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Application for renewal shall be at least 60 days before expiration
and shall be in the same form and manner as required for the original permit.
   (C)   Each application for the renewal of a permit shall be accompanied by a
fee in the amount as set by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Police shall renew each permit upon making
findings as required for issuance of the original permit.
   (E)   If the renewal of the permit is denied, the Superintendent of Police
shall notify the holder of the permit, in writing, before expiration of the
permit. The letter of denial shall include the facts and specific section or
sections of this chapter upon which his determination was made.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.19 INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent of Police or the Health Director, or their designee,
shall, from time to time, make an inspection of each massage establishment in
the city for purposes of determining that the provisions of this chapter are
complied with. The inspections shall be at a reasonable time, and completed in
a reasonable manner. No person shall fail to allow access to the premises for
purpose of inspection or hinder the inspection in any manner.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.20 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit for a massage establishment may be revoked or suspended by the
Superintendent of Police if the applicant or agent in his employ is involved in
any violations, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Is convicted of any offense involving moral turpitude, obscenity,
sexual misconduct, keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame, solicitation of
a lewd or unlawful act, prostitution or pandering, the record of conviction
being conclusive evidence thereof;
   (B)   Uses or permits to be used on the premises any narcotic or any
controlled substance as described in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 21a-240 and 21a-242 to
an extent or manner that the use is illegal or impairs his ability to direct
the establishment and endangers the client or customer;
   (C)   Consumes or serves any alcoholic beverages on the premises;
   (D)   Allows contraband on the premises;
   (E)   Fails to maintain standards prescribed by the State Department of
Health, the Health Department of the city and the Police Department;
   (F)   Furnishes or makes any misleading or false statement or report in
relation to this chapter;
   (G)   Refuses to submit to the Superintendent of Police any reports or
refuses to make available to the Superintendent of Police any records required
by the Superintendent of Police to investigate the establishment for purposes
associated with this chapter;
   (H)   Fails or refuses to submit to an investigation or inspection by
persons authorized by the city to conduct fire, building, health or law
enforcement related inspections;
   (I)   Fails to provide or maintain equipment and keep in a safe and sanitary
condition the premises established for and used by clients and customers
pursuant to minimum standards prescribed by the State Department of Health or
the City Health Department;
   (J)   Employs any unpermitted masseurs and masseuses; and
   (K)   Willfully or deliberately violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or the rules and regulations established by the Superintendent of
Police or the Director of Health pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.21 NOTIFICATION OF SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Police shall not revoke or suspend any permit
issued under this chapter without notifying the holder of the permit, in
writing, of the facts and of the specific section or sections of this chapter
upon which his determination was made and of the holder's right to request a
hearing before the Superintendent of Police and to present evidence or argument
on all the facts or issues involved.
   (B)   A request for the hearing under this section shall be filed within ten
days of notice from the Superintendent of Police and shall stay any revocation
or suspension until such time as a hearing has been held and a decision
rendered on; provided, however, that, if the Superintendent of Police finds
that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires action and
incorporates a finding to that effect in his notice, the permit may be
summarily suspended, pending a hearing, which hearing shall be promptly
instituted and all facts and issues promptly determined.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.22 HEARING ON DENIAL OF PERMIT OR RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit to operate a massage
establishment or a masseur or masseuse permit or by the denial of renewal of
the permit may request, in writing, a hearing before the Superintendent of
Police and the Health Director at which hearing the person shall be afforded
the opportunity to present evidence and argument on all the facts or issues
involved.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Police shall, upon receiving a request for a
hearing under this section, schedule a hearing not later than 30 days from the
date of actual receipt of the request and shall notify all parties of the time
and place of the hearing.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Police and Health Director shall render a
decision within 30 days of the date of the hearing held under division (B)
above.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.23 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be transferable except with the written consent of the
Superintendent of Police; provided, however, that, upon the death of the
permittee the massage establishment may continue in business for a reasonable
period of time to allow for an orderly transfer of the permit.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
MASSEURS OR MASSEUSE PERMIT
§ 117.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, including an applicant for a massage establishment permit, shall
engage in the practice of massage without first having obtained a masseur or
masseuse permit from the Superintendent of Police.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.36 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant for a masseur or masseuse permit shall file an
application with the Superintendent of Police and pay a filing fee which shall
not be refundable. The fee shall be set, from time to time, by the Board of
Aldermen and a schedule of the fees will be on file in the City Clerk's Office.
   (B)   The application for a masseur or masseuse permit shall be in writing,
signed, sworn to by the applicant, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Social Security number;
      (3)   Applicant's height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and a full set
of applicant's fingerprints (fingerprints to be taken by the Police
Department);
      (4)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime within
the last ten years, except for minor traffic violations:
      (7)   Names and address of the recognized school attended, the dates
attended, and a copy of the diploma or certificate of graduation awarded to the
applicant, showing the applicant has successfully completed not less than 270
hours of instruction:
      (8)   Two portrait photographs of the applicant at least two inches by
two inches;
      (9)   A physician's certificate issued by a physician licensed to
practice in this state, showing that the applicant has been examined and found
to be free of contagious or communicable disease and showing that the
examination was conducted within 30 days prior to the submission of the
application. The physical examination shall be in addition to any normal
procedures and shall include screening for tuberculosis with tuberculin skin
testing and a chest x-ray; and
      (10)   Such other information as may be necessary in order for the
Superintendent of Police to make any determination required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.37 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; NOTIFICATION UPON REFUSAL TO ISSUE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Police shall issue a masseur or masseuse permit
after the application has been filed upon finding:
      (1)   The applicant has complied with the requirements of §
117.36(B);
      (2)   The applicant has not been convicted of a felony, an offense
involving the unauthorized practice of the healing arts, sexual misconduct with
minors, obscenity, keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame, solicitation of
a lewd or unlawful act, prostitution or pandering;
      (3)   The applicant has not had a permit suspended or revoked in this
state or any other state; and
      (4)   The applicant has furnished authorization to the Superintendent of
Police to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the
statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant
for the permit.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Police shall notify the applicant in writing of
his decision to refuse to issue the permit and his reasons for refusal.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.38 RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A masseur or masseuse permit shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance unless suspended or revoked.
   (B)   Application for renewal shall be made at least 60 days before
expiration and shall be in the form and manner as required for the original
permit.
   (C)   Each application for a renewal shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount as set by the Board of Aldermen and shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Police shall renew each permit no later than 30
days before expiration upon making findings as are required for issuance for
the original permit.
   (E)   If renewal of the permit is denied, the Superintendent of Police shall
notify the holder of the permit in writing not less than 30 days before
expiration of the permit including the facts and specific section or sections
of this chapter upon which his determination was made.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994)
§ 117.39 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any masseur or masseuse permit may be revoked or suspended by the
Superintendent of Police if the permit holder is involved in any violations
including, but not limited to, any of the following:
   (A)   Is convicted of any offense involving moral turpitude, obscenity,
sexual misconduct, keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame, solicitation of
a lewd or unlawful act, prostitution or pandering, the record of conviction
being conclusive evidence thereof;
   (B)   Uses any narcotic or any controlled drug as defined in Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 21a-240 or any alcoholic beverage to an extent or in a manner that such
use is illegal or impairs the permit holder's ability to properly perform his
duties or endangers the client or customer;
   (C)   Furnishes or makes any misleading or false statement or report in
relation to this chapter;
   (D)   Refuses to submit to the Superintendent of Police any reports or
refuses to make available to the Superintendent of Police any records required
by the Superintendent in investigating the permit holder for purposes of this
chapter; and
   (E)   Willfully or deliberately violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or the rules and regulations established by the Superintendent of
Police or the Director of Health pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Every person, except those persons that are specifically exempt by this
chapter, whether acting as individuals, owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator, or acting as a participant or worker in any way,
who gives a massage or conducts a massage establishment without first obtaining
a permit and paying a permit fee to the city or shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or of the rules and regulations established by the
Superintendent of Police or the Health Director pursuant to this chapter shall
be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day a violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1994; Ord. passed 4-11-1995; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 118: PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
Section
Produce Vendors
   
118.01   License required
   
118.02   Application and fee
   
118.03   License to be displayed on request
   
118.04   Exemptions
Peddlers
   
118.15   License required; exemptions
   
118.16   Fees; weights and measures to be checked prior to issuance
   
118.17   Badge to be worn; signs required on vehicles
Solicitation
   
118.30   Registration and stamping of credentials required
   
118.31   Application requirements
   
118.32   Fee and contents of permit
   
118.33   Requirements and rights relative to permit
   
118.34   Regulations
   
118.35   Exemptions
 
   
118.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Authority of Board of Aldermen to regulate peddling and vending of goods,
wares and merchandise in the streets, see Charter § 3A-2(i)
Cross-reference:
   Trucks or vans vending food, outdoor food vending units, see §§
96.064,
96.065
Statutory reference:
   Itinerant vendors, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 21-27 through 21-35
PRODUCE VENDORS
§ 118.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, not a resident of the city, except a grower selling produce,
shall carry on or attempt to carry on the business of dealing in produce within
the city limits, without first obtaining a license therefor from the
Superintendent of Police.
(1967 Code, § 15-1) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued until the person desiring the same shall
make application therefor, over his signature, which application shall show the
name and residence of the licensee.
(1967 Code, § 15-2)
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued to persons not residents desiring to carry on
the business of produce selling, by the City Clerk, upon payment of the fee
prescribed by §
110.02 to the Tax Collector by the applicant, for the license, and shall run
for a period of one year.
(1967 Code, § 15-3)
§ 118.03 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED ON REQUEST.
   Licensees shall, upon the request of any police officer of the city, health
officer, constable of the town or persons with whom he offers to do business,
exhibit his license for the purpose of inspection.
(1967 Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit or require a license
for the sale of produce by persons having an established place within the city,
or for the sale within the city of the products of the farms or gardens in this
state, when offered for sale by producers who have grown, and brought them to
market, or the obtaining of orders by agents or nonresident merchants and
produce dealers from resident merchants and produce dealers for the purchase of
produce bought of the nonresident merchants or produce dealers, nor interfere
with the sale by any lawful officer of property taken on execution or sold by
order of court.
(1967 Code, § 15-5)
PEDDLERS
§ 118.15 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person except those exempt by the statutes of the state, shall sell or
offer for sale, within the city, any groceries, provisions, fruits or any
article of food, or any goods, wares or merchandise, unless he shall have
obtained a license to do so from the Superintendent of Police. This section,
however, shall not apply to occupants of stores or shops within the city.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit, or to require a license
for, the sale of merchandise of butchers, bakers, grocers or other tradesmen
having an established place of business in the city. Sales at places other than
at the established place of business shall not be exempt from the license
requirement.
(1967 Code, § 15-6) (Ord. passed 9-13-1978) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.16 FEES; WEIGHTS AND MEASURES TO BE CHECKED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, RESIDENTS shall be construed to mean
and include all persons both principals and agents who shall have actually
resided in the state one year and the city six months next before application
is made for the license.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by §
118.15 is payable to the Tax Collector and proper credentials will be provided
by the Tax Collector to be presented to the Superintendent of Police in
securing the license.
   (C)   The fee for the license shall be as prescribed in §
110.02; and unless sooner revoked, the license shall expire on March 31
succeeding the date of issue thereof; but no such license shall be issued by
the Superintendent of Police until the weights and measures of the applicant,
if any such are used by him in his business, have been approved and stamped by
the sealer of weights and measures and a certificate to that effect from the
sealer of weights and measures has been filed with the Superintendent of
Police.
(1967 Code, § 15-7)
§ 118.17 BADGE TO BE WORN; SIGNS REQUIRED ON VEHICLES.
   Each person so licensed shall, when exercising his vocation, wear
conspicuously on his left breast, a suitable badge designed by the
Superintendent of Police, with words "Licensed Vendor, Waterbury" and the
number of the license and the year the license is in force in numerals plainly
inscribed thereon, the charge for which shall be paid by the licensee. Each
person so licensed, when using for the purpose for which he is licensed, a
wagon, cart or vehicle, shall have plainly displayed on both sides of the
wagon, cart or vehicle, a sign designed by the Superintendent of Police, the
number of his license and the year in which his license is in force, in
numerals and the words "Licensed Vendor, Waterbury" in Roman letters, each
numeral or letter to be at least three inches in height, the badge and sign to
be paid for by the licensee. The badge and sign shall be returned to the
Superintendent of Police at the expiration of the license period.
(1967 Code, § 15-8)
SOLICITATION
§ 118.30 REGISTRATION AND STAMPING OF CREDENTIALS REQUIRED.
   No person over 16 years of age shall solicit orders of purchase for future
delivery of any goods, wares or merchandise, including magazines and other
printed matter, within the city either by door-to-door sale, by sale on any
street or highway or by telephone without first registering with the Police
Department and having his credentials stamped as provided in §§
118.31 and
118.32 hereof. Registration by the applicant and stamping of his credentials
shall not constitute a permit to enter privately policed areas.
(1967 Code, § 15-9) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981)
§ 118.31 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An applicant seeking permission to solicit orders hereunder shall
complete an application blank provided by the Police Department, which
application blank shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, home address and local address, if any, of the applicant;
      (2)   A physical description of the applicant, setting forth the
applicant's age, height, weight, color of hair and eyes;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared;
      (4)   The nature of the goods, wares or merchandise for which orders are
to be solicited;
      (5)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been arrested or
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and, if so, the nature and disposition,
if any, of each such occurrence; and
      (6)   A statement as to the period during which the applicant intends to
solicit orders.
   (B)   The applicant, at the time of execution of the application, shall
submit identification to the satisfaction of the Police Department which shall
contain a specimen of the applicant's signature.
(1967 Code, § 15-10) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.32 FEE AND CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of §
118.31 hereof, and the advance payment of a license fee as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code to the Police Department, the Police Department shall stamp
the credentials of the applicant. The credentials shall set forth a physical
description of the applicant, the name and address of the applicant and of his
employer, if any, the nature of the goods, wares or merchandise for which
orders are to be solicited, and the period during which the applicant may
solicit orders, which period shall not exceed one year; provided, however,
that, the Police Department shall not be required to grant the permission to
either a person who has been convicted of either a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude or convicted of a violation of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 15-11) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 118.33 REQUIREMENTS AND RIGHTS RELATIVE TO PERMIT.
   Stamped credentials shall be nontransferable and, unless revoked, shall
entitle the holder, for the period indicated therein, to solicit orders within
the city for purchase of the goods, wares or merchandise specified in his
application; provided that, the holder shall have his stamped credentials in
his possession at all times while soliciting orders. Further, the holder of the
stamped credentials shall exhibit the same whenever so requested by either a
police officer of the city or any purchaser or prospective purchaser.
(1967 Code, § 15-12) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.34 REGULATIONS.
   Any person soliciting within the city, whether or not required to register
under the provisions of this chapter, shall conform to the following
regulations:
   (A)   The solicitor shall conduct himself at all times in an orderly and
lawful manner.
   (B)   The solicitor shall give all purchasers a written receipt for all
orders taken within the city which receipt shall be signed by the solicitor and
shall set forth a brief description of the goods, wares or merchandise ordered,
the total purchase price thereof and the amount of the downpayment received by
the solicitor from the purchaser.
   (C)   Solicitations shall only be conducted between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   No solicitor shall remain on the premises of a prospective purchaser
once asked to leave by the prospective purchaser.
(1967 Code, § 15-13) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
§ 118.35 EXEMPTIONS.
   The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Salespersons selling goods to retail or wholesale stores for resale;
   (B)   Wholesalers selling and delivering their wares and goods to the
merchants of the city;
   (C)   Goods, merchandise or foodstuffs sold and delivered by the merchants
of the city;
   (D)   Vendors of newspapers;
   (E)   The sales of goods by students of the schools of the City of
Waterbury; providing, the sales have been approved by the Waterbury Board of
Education or, in the case of a private school, by the appropriate school
officials;
   (F)   Anyone who has conducted a regular place of business within the city
for at least one year on a continuous basis;
   (G)   Those persons exempted by the statutes of this state; and
   (H)   Civil service, church or fraternal groups regularly organized and/or
functioning in the city; provided, however, that, any such group shall be
required to obtain one permit as provided in this chapter, without fee, for any
activity which comes within the scope of this chapter. Further, the group shall
have been in existence in the city for a continuous period of at least one year
prior to application for such a permit.
(1967 Code, § 15-15)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or making any
false statements or misrepresentations of fact for the purpose of obtaining
permission to solicit orders shall, upon conviction thereof, and in addition to
other penalties provided by law, be subject to a fine as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each solicitation or sale shall be deemed a separate
offense and, pending trial therefor, the Police Department may suspend any
permission to solicit which may have been granted. Any person who, subsequent
to having obtained a permit to solicit, is convicted of either a felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, shall have his permit automatically
revoked and shall not thereafter solicit orders in the city without re-
registering with the Police Department.
(1967 Code, § 15-14) (Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 119: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
119.01   Title
   
119.02   Policy statement
   
119.03   Definitions
   
119.04   Operating requirements
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Adult-Oriented Business Ordinance" for
the city.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1995)
§ 119.02 POLICY STATEMENT.
   The Board of Aldermen of the city finds:
   (A)   Adult-oriented establishments located in the city require special
supervision from the city's public safety agencies in order to protect and
preserve the health, safety and welfare of the city's citizens;
   (B)   The continued unregulated operation of adult-oriented establishments
is and would be detrimental to the general welfare, health and safety of the
citizens of the city;
   (C)   The Constitution and laws of the state grant to the city powers,
especially police power, to enact reasonable legislation and measures to
regulate and supervise adult-oriented establishments, as hereinafter defined,
in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare; and
   (D)   It is not the intent of the Board of Aldermen, in enacting this
chapter, to deny to any person rights to speech protected by the United States
and/or State Constitutions, nor is it the intent of the Board of Aldermen to
impose any additional limitations or restrictions on the contents of any
communicative materials, including sexually-oriented films, video tapes, books
and/or other materials. Further, by enacting this chapter, the Board of
Aldermen does not intend to deny or restrict the rights of any adult to obtain
and/or view any sexually-oriented materials protected by the United States and/
or State Constitutions, nor does it intend to restrict or deny any
constitutionally protected rights that distributors or exhibitors of the
sexually-oriented materials may have to sell, distribute or exhibit the
materials.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1995)
§ 119.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Includes any amusement machine that is regularly
used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas", as defined below, for observation by patrons
therein.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its stock and trade in books, films, video cassettes or magazines
and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas", as defined below, and in
conjunction therewith has facilities for the presentation of adult
entertainment, as defined below, and including adult-oriented films, movies or
live entertainment, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition of any adult-oriented motion pictures,
live performance, display or dance of any type, which has as a significant or
substantial portion of the performance any actual or simulated performance of
"specified sexual activities" or exhibition and viewing of "specified
anatomical areas", removal of articles of clothing or appearing unclothed.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of
less than 50 persons regularly used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", as defined
below, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons regularly used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", as defined
below, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENTS. Include, without limitation, "adult
bookstores", "adult motion picture theaters", "adult mini-motion picture
theaters" and further means any premises to which the public, patrons or
members are invited or admitted and which are so physically arranged as to
provide booths, cubicles, rooms, studios, compartments or stalls separate from
the common areas of the premises for the purpose of viewing adult-oriented
motion pictures, or wherein an entertainer provides adult entertainment to a
member of the public, a patron or a member, when such adult entertainment is
held, conducted, operated or maintained for a profit, direct or indirect. An
ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT further includes, without limitation, any "adult
entertainment studio" or any premises that is physically arranged and used as
such, whether advertised or represented as an adult entertainment studio,
sensitivity studio, modeling studio or any other term of like import.
   AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Includes any machine which upon the payment of a charge
or upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disk, may be operated by
the public for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score and whether or not electronically operated, and shall
include, but not be limited to, such devices as pinball machines, skillball,
mechanical grab machines, electronic baseball, football, hockey or basketball
machines, any and all air propelled machines or games, pool tables, shooting
games, any and all video games and all other games, or operations similar
thereto under whatever name they may be indicated, including video monitoring
machines. This definition shall not apply to those items generally described as
jukeboxes or billiard tables or pool tables in billiard or pool parlors solely
designated as such and permitted under the zoning code.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including independent contractors, who work
in or at or render any service directly related to the operation of an adult-
oriented establishment.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within an adult-oriented
establishment as defined in this section, whether or not a fee is charged or
accepted for entertainment and whether or not entertainment is provided as an
employee or an independent contractor.
   INSPECTOR. An employee of the Waterbury Department of Health authorized and
designated by the Director of Health, or the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or an
employee of the Waterbury Building Department or a member of the Waterbury
Police Department, or the Fire Marshal, or an agent of any or all such persons
who is designated to inspect premises regulated under this chapter, and to take
the required actions authorized by this chapter in case of violations being
found on the premises, and to require corrections or unsatisfactory conditions
found on the premises.
   MINOR. Refers to a person under the age of 18 years.
   OPERATOR. Any person, partnership or corporation operating, conducting or
maintaining an adult-oriented establishment.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Is not intended to include any medical publications or
films or bona fide educational publication or films nor does it include any art
or photography publications which devote at least 25% of the lineage of each
issue to articles and advertisements dealing with subjects of art or
photography. Nor does this definition apply to any news periodical which
reports or describes current events and which, from time to time, publishes
photographs of nude or semi-nude persons in connection with the dissemination
of the news. Nor does this definition apply to publications or films which
describe and report different cultures and which, from time to time, publish or
show photographs or depictions of nude or semi-nude persons when describing
cultures in which nudity or semi-nudity is indigenous to the population.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttocks; and
         (c)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1995)
§ 119.04 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No operator or employee of an adult-oriented establishment shall allow
or permit any minor to loiter in any part of the establishment, including
parking lots immediately adjacent to the establishment used by patrons of the
adult-oriented establishment.
   (B)   Every adult-oriented establishment doing business in the city on and
after the effective date of this chapter shall be well lighted at all times and
shall be physically arranged in such a manner that the entire interior portion
of the booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls, wherein adult entertainment is
provided, shall be clearly visible from the common areas of the premises.
Visibility into such booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls shall not be blocked or
obscured by doors, curtains, partitions, drapes or any other obstruction
whatsoever. It shall be unlawful to install enclosed booths, cubicles, rooms or
stalls within adult-oriented establishments for whatever purpose, but
especially for the purpose of providing for the secluded viewing of adult-
oriented motion pictures or other types of adult-oriented entertainment.
   (C)   Upon the passage of this chapter, the operator of each adult-oriented
establishment shall be responsible for and shall provide that any room or other
area used for the purpose of viewing adult-oriented motion pictures or other
types of live adult entertainment shall be well lighted and readily accessible
at all times and shall be continuously open to view in its entirety. The
premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access at an
illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the floor level.
It shall be the duty of the operator and its agents to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (D)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if the operator, as a result of the operator's negligent failure to supervise
the employee's conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for the act or
omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or caused the
omission.
   (E)   An operator shall be responsible for the conduct of all employees
while on the licensed premises, and any act or omission of any employee
constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the
act or omission of the operator for purposes of determining whether the
operator shall be subject to the penalties imposed by this chapter.
   (F)   All adult-oriented establishments shall be open to inspection at all
reasonable times by the Waterbury Police Department, inspectors employed by the
city or such other persons as the Board of Aldermen may designate.
   (G)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted on a site that is
less than 500 feet from an area zoned residential.
   (H)   No adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted on a site that is
less than 1,000 feet from an elementary or secondary school.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1995) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who is found to have violated
this chapter shall be fined as set forth for each such violation in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one hour of time shall be considered a
separate offense for each hour of violation.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1995; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 120: CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES
Section
   
120.01   Prohibited acts
   
120.02   Effective date
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall dispense or cause to be dispensed cigarettes, tobacco or
smokeless tobacco products from vending machines at any location within the
city.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2002) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be on the date of its enactment
provided the provisions of §
120.01 shall not, except with respect to renewals of any contract occurring
after the effective date, be interpreted or applied in a manner which will
impair or affect any right obligations under any contract in existence as of
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2002)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or business entity who violates any provision of §
120.01 shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction in any court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to administrative assessment of civil
penalties.
   (B)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of the provision.
   (C)   Each day of violation is a separate infraction.
   (D)   Penalties for violations shall be as set forth for each offense for
each day the violation continues in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties
and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (E)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this section, any
violation of §
120.01 may be enforced by a civil action brought by the Board of Aldermen or
the Board of Health. In such action, the Board of Aldermen or the Board of
Health may seek, and the court shall grant, as appropriate, any or all of the
following remedies:
      (1)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Assessment of the violator for costs of any investigation,
inspection or monitoring survey that led to the establishment of the violation,
including, but not limited to, reasonable costs of preparing the bringing of
legal action under §
120.01 and attorney compensation; and
      (3)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2002; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 121: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
121.01   Registration
   
121.02   Business license
   
121.03   Record of property received
   
121.04   Inspection of record and pawned property
   
121.05   Reports to Chief of Police and the Police Department
   
121.06   Computerized reporting of pawnshop information
   
121.07   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01 REGISTRATION.
   Every person, corporation, limited liability company or partnership engaged
in the business of a pawnbroker, as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 21-39 et
seq., within the city is required to register with the Chief of Police and
provide the following information:
   (A)   Name of the business, trade name or sole proprietorship;
   (B)   Name and business address(es) of the individual, corporation, limited
liability company or partnership responsible for the operation of the business;
   (C)   Location and hours of operation of the business;
   (D)   Residence address of the person responsible for operation of the
business;
   (E)   Names of each employee engaged in the business;
   (F)   The official mailing address of the business; and
   (G)   The website and/or e-mail address if the business (if applicable).
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.02 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person, corporation, limited liability company or partnership
registering as a pawnbroker must comply with the licensing requirements of the
Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 21-39 through 21-45, inclusive, in addition to obtaining a
pawnbrokers license from the Police Department. The chief of Police may require
any applicant for a pawnbroker license to submit to state and national criminal
history record checks.
   (B)   The fee for pawnbroker's license shall be set forth in the schedule of
fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the Code.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.03 RECORD OF PROPERTY RECEIVED.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep at his place of business a record in which he
shall enter in writing in English a clear and accurate description of all
property received on deposit, pledge or purchase, particularly mentioning any
prominent or descriptive marks, model number and serial number, the time when
received and the name, proof of identity and place of residence of the person
from whom received. This record shall be kept in a clean and legible manner,
and no entry therein shall be falsified, erased, obliterated, defaced or
removed.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.04 INSPECTION OF RECORD AND PAWNED PROPERTY.
   Every pawnbroker shall, during the ordinary hours of business, when
requested by the chief of Police or any police officer of the Police
Department, submit and exhibit to for inspection the records of property
received and of persons depositing, pledging or selling the same, the place
were the business is carried on and all articles of property therein.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.05 REPORTS TO CHIEF OF POLICE AND THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker within the city shall submit a sworn statement to the
chief of Police setting forth a description of every article or thing received
by him in pawn, pledge, trade, purchase or consignment, and the name and
description of the person from whom goods were received, on the first business
day immediately following each Sunday.
   (B)   Reports shall be made every week of each year before the hour of noon.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.06 COMPUTERIZED REPORTING OF PAWNSHOP INFORMATION.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker, except those exempted as stated in division (E)
below, shall, before noon of each business day following Sunday, transmit to
the Chief of Police by means of electronic transmission through a modem or
similar device, or by delivery of a computer disk, in such a format that the
data are capable of direct electronic entry into the Police Department's
computerized system for identifying and tracing lost, stolen and sought-after
property, the information required to be recorded concerning all transactions
in which the licensee received used goods during the preceding week by pawn,
trade, purchase or consignment, as set forth above.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall establish the format and requirements for
the transmission of data and may restrict the scope of the items that are to be
electronically reported. A transaction reported by electronic transmission
shall not be reported on paper forms unless the Chief of Police so requests.
   (C)   Each pawnshop which has a valid pawnbroker's license as of the passage
of this chapter has until August 1, 2007 to comply with the regulations of this
chapter. New applicants for a pawnbroker's license must comply with the
regulations at the time of the license issuance.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may for good cause shown grant a pawnbroker an
extension of the deadline to a date not later than September 1, 2007. An
extension may only be granted upon written application by the pawnbroker and
upon a showing that the pawnbroker is making satisfactory progress toward
acquiring computer programs and equipment to make the necessary transmission.
   (E)   Pawnbrokers need not report electronically a transaction taking place
at a business location where the number of pawn transactions at no time exceeds
ten transactions per week (calculated from each Monday through the next Sunday,
inclusive). A pawnbroker reasonably believing a location at which he conducts a
pawnshop qualifies under this division for exemption from computerized
reporting and wishing to be exempt from the requirement of division (A) shall
sign a sworn statement to that effect in a form developed by the Chief of
Police. Once the statement is signed, so long as the volume of transactions
does not exceed ten each week, pawn transactions taking place at that pawnshop
need not be reported electronically, but the pawnbroker must comply in all
respects with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 21-43, and must submit a weekly sworn
statement regarding transactions to the Chief of Police in writing as set forth
above. If, in any two weeks in any consecutive three-month period, the number
of pawn transactions at the pawnshop exceeds ten per week, then the pawnbroker
shall no longer be exempt from the electronic reporting requirements set forth
above in division (A) above.
   (F)   If, after establishing the format requirements for the transmission of
computerized reports of transactions, the Chief of Police alters the required
format, pawnbrokers shall be given at least 30 days to comply with the new
format.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   After notice and hearing, the Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a
license upon a finding that:
      (1)   The pawnbroker, either knowingly or without the exercise of due
care to prevent the same, has violated this chapter;
      (2)   A fact or condition exists which, if it had existed or been known
at the time of the original application for a license, would have justified the
refusal to issue a license;
      (3)   The licensee has aided, abetted or conspired with an individual or
person to circumvent or violate the requirements of this chapter; or
      (4)   The licensee or a legal or beneficial owner of the license has been
convicted of a crime that the Chief of Police finds directly relates to the
duties and responsibilities of the occupation of a pawnbroker.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may reinstate a suspended license or issue a new
license to a person whose license has been revoked if no fact or condition then
exists which would have justified the refusal to originally issue a license.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007)
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, agent or
employee thereof, who willfully violates the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
(Ord. passed 8-6-2007; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 122: BARBERSHOPS, HAIRDRESSING AND COSMETOLOGY SHOPS
Section
General Provisions
   
122.01   Policy
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Plan review and pre-operation inspections
Permit Requirements
   
122.20   Permits
   
122.21   Inspections
   
122.22   Permit suspension
   
122.23   Permit revocation/nonrenewal
   
122.24   Permit reinstatement
   
122.25   Service of notices or orders
Conditions; Sanitation
   
122.40   Sanitation
   
122.41   Prohibited equipment and products
   
122.42   Operators, licensed personnel, nail technicians and other personnel
   
122.43   Equipment and facilities
   
122.44   Sleeping quarters
   
122.45   Towels
   
122.46   Neck protection and capes
   
122.47   Headrest cover
   
122.48   Cosmetics
   
122.49   Sanitation of equipment and implements
   
122.50   Hygiene of operators
   
122.51   Smoking prohibited
   
122.52   Food and beverages
   
122.53   Animals, pets, reptiles or birds
   
122.54   Hours of operation
   
122.55   Barbershop or hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop in residence
   
122.56   Technical standards
   
122.57   Material safety data sheets
   
122.58   Notification of provisions and effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 122.01 POLICY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of Waterbury through regulation and
inspection of sanitary conditions at barbershops, hairdressing and cosmetology
shops/salons.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Person designated by the Director of Health to carry out
his duties.
   BARBER. A person licensed pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 386.
   BARBERING. The following-described practices, when done upon the head, face
and neck for cosmetic purposes and done for the public, with or without
compensation therefore, shall be construed as practicing the occupation of
barber or master barber: Shaving or trimming the beard; cutting hair; styling
or cutting hairpieces and wigs; giving facial and scalp massage or application
of oils, creams, lotions or other preparations, either by hand or mechanical
appliances; singeing, shampooing or dyeing the hair or applying hair tonic, and
applying cosmetic preparations, antiseptics, powders, oils, clays or lotions to
scalp, face or neck; provided, nothing in this chapter shall permit any of the
services or acts herein described to be used for the treatment or cure of any
physical or mental disease or ailment.
   DIRECTOR OF HEALTH. The City Director of Health or his authorized agent.
   DISINFECTANT. Any Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) registered product
with demonstrable bactericidal, virucidal and fungicidal activity used in
accordance with the manufacturer's instruction.
   ESTABLISHMENT or ESTABLISHMENTS. Any and all barbershops, hairdressing and/
or cosmetology shop/salons, or any combination thereof.
   HAIRDRESSER/COSMETICIAN. A person licensed pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat.
Chapter 387.
   HAIRDRESSING and/or COSMETOLOGY. The art of dressing, arranging, curling,
waving, weaving, cutting, singeing, bleaching and coloring the hair and
treating the scalp of any person, and massaging, cleansing, stimulating,
manipulating, exercising or beautifying with the use of hands, appliances,
cosmetic preparations, antiseptics, tonics, lotions, creams, powders, oils or
clays and doing similar work on the face, neck and arms, and manicuring the
fingernails of any person for compensation, provided nothing in this definition
shall prohibit an unlicensed person from performing facials, eyebrow arching,
shampooing or manicuring of the fingernails or, for cosmetic purposes only,
trimming, filing and painting the healthy toenails, excluding cutting nail
beds, corns and calluses or other medical treatment involving the foot or
ankle, or braiding hair.
   HAIRDRESSING OR COSMETOLOGY SHOP/SALON. Any establishment engaged in the
practice of hairdressing, cosmetology or barbering for the public.
   LICENSED PERSONNEL. A person licensed pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapters
386 and 387.
   MOBILE WORK STATION. A modular space which can be used for multiple purposes
through the use of mobile equipment.
   NAIL TECHNICIAN. A person who, for compensation, cuts, shapes, polishes or
enhances the appearance of the nails of the hands or feet, including, but not
limited to, the application and removal of sculpted or artificial nails.
   OTHER SERVICES. The following practices may be performed by an unlicensed
individual:
      (1)   Manicuring nails of the hands or, for cosmetic purposes only,
trimming painting and filing healthy toenails;
      (2)   Performing facials;
      (3)   Shampooing of the hair;
      (4)   Eyebrow arching;
      (5)   Braiding hair; and
      (6)   Waxing.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. The person or persons in charge of operating, maintaining,
leasing and/or managing any barbershop, hairdressing or cosmetology shop/salon.
This person shall also be responsible for ensuring that the establishment
complies with all applicable code sections.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability entity,
company, corporation, trust and/or association, either private or public in
nature.
   SANITARY CONDITIONS. The safe and clean conditions in which an establishment
is required to operate under at all times, under this regulation.
   SHAMPOO STATION. A shampoo station consists of a shampoo sink (used for no
other purpose) and a shampoo chair.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit issued to conduct a public demonstration,
exhibition, show, event or convention for a period of time, not to exceed 14
days in length.
   WORK STATION. A chair, counter-top and/or floor space set apart for the
purpose of serving a customer, including floor space for the operator to stand
while serving the customer.
   WORKING AREA. A separate room with more than one workstation or a private
room set aside to serve one customer at a time.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.03 PLAN REVIEW AND PRE-OPERATION INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No barbershop, hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop having a permanent
location shall be relocated, constructed, remodeled or extensively altered, nor
shall a structure be converted to use as a barbershop or hairdressing and/or
cosmetology shop, except in accordance with plans and specifications approved
by the City Department of Health.
   (B)   (1)   Properly prepared plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/4" :
1', and specifications for the construction, remodeling or alteration shall be
submitted to the Director of Health, or authorized agent, for review and
approval before relocation, construction, remodeling, alteration or conversion
is begun.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement and construction materials of work areas and the type and model of
proposed fixed equipment, flooring material and facilities.
      (3)   The Director of Health shall approve the plans and specifications
if they meet the requirements of this chapter and the Public Health Code of the
state.
   (C)   Prior to the barbershop, hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop's
opening, the Director of Health, or authorized agent, shall conduct a pre-
operational inspection to determine compliance with the approved plans and
specifications and with the requirements of this chapter and the Public Health
Code of the state.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 122.20 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any barbershop or hairdressing
and/or cosmetology shop/salon without obtaining a valid permit issued by the
City Director of Health. Only persons who comply with this chapter shall obtain
the permit.
   (B)   Every barbershop, hairdressing and/or cosmetology salon shall comply
with local Planning and Zoning, Building, Health, Fire and any other applicable
codes, before the permit shall issue.
   (C)   Application for permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
Director of Health. All permit issuance decisions will be made by the Director
of Health. All permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance
and renewable for an additional year from the date of renewal/issuance.
   (D)   Permits shall be obtained by all barbershops, hairdressing and/or
cosmetology shops/salons, before the establishments may begin to conduct
business within the city. Those establishments in existence prior to the
enactment of this chapter shall have 90 days to comply with the permit
requirements set forth herein.
   (E)   Every applicant for a permit to operate a barbershop, hairdressing or
cosmetology salon/shop shall pay an application fee. The fee for the permit
shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual
budget for the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   No permit shall be issued or renewed until a complete application has
been submitted, fee(s) paid and the establishment meets all requirements set
forth in this chapter as well as all other state and local regulations.
   (G)   Permits shall be valid until the expiration date listed on the face of
the permit, or until the facility changes owners, closes or goes out of
business. Permits shall also be invalidated at the discretion of the Director
of Health, who may suspend or revoke the permit.
   (H)   Permits are non-transferable from person to person and from location
to location.
   (I)   All permits shall be displayed in a prominent location where patrons
may readily and easily observe them.
   (J)   A temporary permit may be issued by the Director of Health, to a
barbershop, hairdressing and/or cosmetology salon/shop, at the Director's
discretion, for a period not to exceed 14 days.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.21 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Health, or his authorized agent(s), shall be permitted
to enter, during normal operating hours, any portion of any barbershop or
hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop/salon for the purposes of making
inspections to determine compliance with this chapter and the Public Health
Code of the state.
   (B)   At least once a year, the Director of Health or authorized agent,
shall inspect each barbershop, hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop and shall
make as many additional inspections as are necessary for the enforcement of
this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state. Any shop offering
pedicures as a service shall be inspected a minimum of twice a year.
   (C)   Corrective actions shall be completed and reinspections shall be
conducted in a time period not to exceed two weeks if there are one or more
major inspection items in violation.
   (D)   Major inspection items are:
      (1)   Potential exposure to infectious, pathogenic or toxic agents;
      (2)   Inadequate water supply; inadequate sewage disposal; unapproved
means of sewage disposal;
      (3)   An unlicensed individual is performing procedures required by
licensure;
      (4)   Lack of an approved disinfection; use of an unapproved
disinfectant; improper use of an approved disinfectant;
      (5)   In residence shop not completely separate from living/sleeping
quarters;
      (6)   Toilets, washbasins and utility sinks inadequate, inconvenient,
inaccessible, improperly designed and/or installed;
      (7)   Cross connections or potential back siphonage or backflow; and
      (8)   Equipment and utensils used on customers not cleaned and/or
disinfected after each customer.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.22 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Failure to comply with any section of this chapter or any section of
the Public Health Code of the state shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that the Director of Health finds unsanitary or
conditions which are in violation of this chapter or the Public Health Code of
the state, the Director of Health may immediately issue written notice to the
permit holder, citing such conditions and specifying the corrective actions to
be taken and the time frame in which these actions shall be taken. If
corrective action is not made during the specified time, the permit may be
revoked or suspended. If re-inspection is needed, the applicable re-inspection
fee must be paid to the Department of Health. Except as provided below in
division (C), no permit shall be suspended or revoked without prior written
notice by the Director of Health.
   (C)   The Director of Health may suspend, without warning, prior notice or
hearing, any permit to operate a barbershop or hairdressing and/or cosmetology
shop:
      (1)   If the owner, operator, agent or employee of the establishment has
interfered with the performance of the Director's duties; or
      (2)   If the operation of the establishment constitutes an imminent
hazard to public health including, but not limited to, any one of the
following:
         (a)   An ongoing outbreak or threat of an outbreak of an infectious,
pathogenic, or toxic agent, capable of being transmitted to consumers;
         (b)   An inadequate amount of potable water, supplied under pressure,
to meet the needs of the facility;
         (c)   A sewage backup into the facility;
         (d)   An unlicensed individual is performing procedures requiring
licensure by the Connecticut General Statutes, the Public Health Code or this
chapter; and
         (e)   An absence of an approved disinfectant or evidence that the
disinfectant is not being used properly to thoroughly clean implements and
equipment after each client.
   (D)   Suspension shall be effective immediately upon delivery of the
violation order to the permit holder or operator of the establishment. All
operations shall immediately cease and shall not resume until written approval
has been issued by the Director of Health.
   (E)   Appeals of the orders shall be filed pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §
19a-229.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.23 PERMIT REVOCATION/NONRENEWAL.
   (A)   The Director of Health may revoke or refuse to renew the permit of any
person for serious or repeated violations of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or for interference with the Director of Health in the performance of
official duties, or for cases where the permit to operate has been obtained
through nondisclosure, misrepresentation or intentional misstatement of a
material fact.
   (B)   Appeals of the revocations or non-renewals shall be filed pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 19a-229.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.24 PERMIT REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a permit has been suspended, the holder of the suspended
permit may request a hearing with the Health Director for permit reinstatement.
Following receipt of a written request, including a statement signed by the
applicant that, in his opinion, the conditions causing the suspension have been
corrected; the Director of Health shall make a re-inspection. If the Director
of Health determines that the applicant has complied with the requirements of
this chapter and the Public Health Code of the state, the permit shall be
reinstated and returned to the permit holder.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days from the date of revocation or refusal to
renew, a written application may be made for the issuance of a new permit. This
application will be treated as a new application. All appropriate procedures
and inspections applicable to new applications will be required, including a
plan review.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.25 SERVICE OF NOTICES OR ORDERS.
   A notice or order provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the permit holder, or operator of the establishment, or when it is
served by the City Sheriff or State Marshal or when it is sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
holder on the permit. A completed and signed inspection report shall constitute
a written notice.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
CONDITIONS; SANITATION
§ 122.40 SANITATION.
   (A)   All establishments shall provide a safe, healthy and sanitary
environment. All facilities shall be kept clean, sanitary and in good repair.
   (B)   After each patron, all instruments shall be thoroughly cleaned to
remove foreign matter, treated with an approved disinfectant and stored in a
protective manner until their next use. Barbicide disinfectant constitutes a
satisfactory sanitization of implements. All other chemical methods of
sanitizing must have prior approval, in writing, by the Director of Health.
   (C)   Non-chemical means of sanitizing must have prior approval, in writing,
by the Director of Health. Equipment specifications shall accompany requests
for approval.
   (D)   Disinfectants shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer's
recommendations and instructions.
   (E)   All disposable or single use articles that come into contact with
blood and/or bodily fluids shall be enclosed in a sealable plastic bag, prior
to placing in the waste receptacle. All sharp or pointed articles shall be
disposed of in a puncture-proof container.
   (F)   An approved anti-microbial additive, in proper concentration, shall be
placed in each foot spa or water bath during each use.
   (G)   Each establishment must stock proper testing materials for anti-
microbial additives, and each foot spa or water bath shall be tested for proper
anti-microbial concentration before each use.
   (H)   After each patron, the shop/salon shall drain all water and debris,
properly disinfect and dry the foot spa or water bath. At the end of each
operating day, the shop/salon shall remove and immerse any filter in
disinfectant and flush the foot spa or water bath with low sudsing soap and
water.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.41 PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT AND PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is prohibited to use or store the following items in an
establishment:
      (1)   A lancet or any other device used to break the skin;
      (2)   A razor blade (Credo blade) callus shaver;
      (3)   Shaving brushes, shaving mugs and brush neck dusters; and
      (4)   Any substance banned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
including, but not limited to, liquid methyl methacrylate monomer (MMA) and
methalyne chloride.
   (B)   Materials to stop the flow of blood may be used only in liquid or
powdered form.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.42 OPERATORS, LICENSED PERSONNEL, NAIL TECHNICIANS AND OTHER PERSONNEL.
   (A)   All operators, licensed personnel, nail technicians and other
personnel shall comply with all applicable sections of this chapter, the state
general statutes, the Connecticut Public Health Code, state and federal
statutes and local, state and federal regulations in the provision of their
services.
   (B)   Operators, licensed personnel, nail technicians all other shop/salon
personnel shall thoroughly wash their hands with soap and hot water immediately
after using the toilet, eating or smoking. Before serving each customer,
operators, licensed personnel, nail technicians and all other shop/salon
personnel shall thoroughly wash their hands with soap, shampoo or hand
disinfectant.
   (C)   No operator, licensed personnel, nail technician or other shop/salon
personnel shall eat or smoke at a workstation.
   (D)   No instrument may be placed or carried in the pockets of an operator,
licensed personnel, nail technician or other shop/salon personnel.
   (E)   No operator, licensed personnel, nail technician or other shop/salon
personnel shall remove warts or moles, or treat any disease of each patron, nor
perform any medical procedure, such as an injection, nor dispense any medical
device.
   (F)   No operator shall knowingly serve any patron who is affected with
impetigo, barber's itch, lice, nits or ringworm.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.43 EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Water supply. An adequate supply of hot (minimum 100°F) and cold
running water, at proper temperatures, from a municipal or approved private
source shall be provided for services, for customers, cleanliness of employees
and for washing floors, walls, ceiling and equipment. All sinks in the
establishment must have hot and cold running water at all times. Hot water at
faucet shall not exceed 110°F. 
   (B)   Plumbing and waste disposal.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures must be protected against back-flow and shall
be clean and free from defects. Waster water shall be discharged into municipal
sewers, where available, or into an approved on-site sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Plumbing fixtures shall be of impervious material and of a type
that is easily cleanable. They shall be free from cracks and from parts that
are not readily accessible for cleaning. They shall be of a type that does not
constitute a hazard to a public water supply through back siphonage or cross-
connection.
      (3)   All plumbing installation and fixtures shall conform to applicable
building and plumbing codes.
      (4)   Shampoo sinks shall be used for barbering, hairdressing and
cosmetology work only.
      (5)   A utility sink shall be provided for proper cleaning of surfaces,
equipment and the mixing of chemicals.
      (6)   At least one hand wash facility shall be located in each private
treatment room and in each work area in order to provide for proper hand
washing before each customer for the customer and the technician. Each hand-
washing sink shall have a soap dispenser and disposable towels for hand drying.
Hand wash signs shall be posted at all hand sinks, designating sinks as such.
      (7)   A mop sink must be provided for cleaning the facility.
   (C)   Toilet facilities.
      (1)   Adequate toilet facilities with hand wash sinks must be provided
for customers and employees. The facilities and washbasins shall be kept clean
and in working order.
      (2)   Mechanical ventilation or an operational window is required.
      (3)   Bathroom facility shall provide a hand sink with hot and cold
running water, a sanitary soap dispenser, toilet paper and single-use paper
towels for customers and employees.
      (4)   The use of common soap for more than one person is prohibited.
      (5)   A covered refuse receptacle shall be provided in the ladies' room
and/or unisex bathroom.
      (6)   The door to the toilet room must be self-closing.
   (D)   Lighting. Lighting shall be sufficient to provide adequate
illumination in the work area. Illumination shall be equal to or greater than
50 foot candles per square foot.
   (E)   Ventilation. The establishment shall be properly and adequately
ventilated to remove excess heat, vapors and odors. All windows and doors shall
be effectively screened against insects, rodents and other vermin and/or pests.
   (F)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Floors shall be nonporous and of such construction as to be easily
cleaned. Floors where hair cutting, styling, tinting, shampooing or manicuring,
including pedicuring, or where chemicals for bleaching hair are used, shall
have hard and washable surfaces. Floors shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (2)   Hair clippings or nail clippings shall not be allowed to accumulate
on floors or chairs. Hair and nail clippings shall be removed after each and
every patron served.
      (3)   Ceilings shall be kept in good repair. Cracks in floors, walls and
ceilings shall be repaired so as to prevent the harboring of insects, rodents,
vermin and pests.
   (G)   Cabinets. Cabinets shall be provided for storage of chemicals, clean
linen, towels, blankets and gowns. They shall be kept clean and have tight-
fitting doors that shall be kept closed to protect the linen, towels, blankets
and gowns from dust and dirt or other contamination.
   (H)   Refuse.
      (1)   Refuse containers inside the establishment shall consist of an
adequate number of covered garbage containers for hair droppings, paper and
other waste material. The refuse containers shall be emptied daily and
maintained in a sanitary manner.
      (2)   Refuse containers stored outside the establishment shall consist of
an adequate number of approved garbage receptacles that have tight fitting lids
which are kept closed at all times. The garbage receptacles area and property
must be maintained in a clean manner and free of litter at all times.
   (I)   Work stations.
      (1)   Chemicals and non-chemicals not stored in the original container
must be labeled at all stations.
      (2)   A container of Barbicide, or other approved disinfectant, shall be
located at all hair, nail and pedicure stations for brushes and implements to
be stored.
      (3)   Workstations must be kept clean of filing dust, nail clipping and
hair.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.44 SLEEPING QUARTERS.
   Sleeping quarters shall not be located in any part of the establishment.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.45 TOWELS.
   (A)   Clean, properly laundered or disposable single-use towels shall be
used for each patron.
   (B)   (1)   All linens and towels shall be deposited, after each patron, in
a covered, cleanable receptacle, which can be readily emptied and cleansed.
      (2)   Receptacles shall be maintained in a sanitary manner.
      (3)   Chemically-soiled towels and linens shall be stored in fire-
retardant containers.
   (C)   Clean towels and linens shall be stored off the floor in a clean,
protected location.
   (D)   An approved sanitizing agent shall be used when washing towels and
linens on the premises.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.46 NECK PROTECTION AND CAPES.
   (A)   A sanitary neck strip or clean towel shall be placed around a patron's
neck so that the cape does not come in contact with the skin of the neck.
   (B)   Neck strips shall be discarded after each use.
   (C)   Capes shall be cleaned as necessary to ensure sanitary condition and
shall be stored off the floor between uses.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.47 HEADREST COVER.
   The headrest of chairs shall be covered with a single-use disposable cover
and shall be replaced after each and every consumer.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.48 COSMETICS.
   (A)   When only a portion of a cream, liquid, powder or other cosmetic
preparation is to be removed from the container, it shall be removed in such a
way as not to contaminate the remainder.
   (B)   Multi-use of cosmetic applicators is prohibited. This includes the use
of lipsticks, powder puffs, makeup brushes and sponges.
   (C)   Lotions and powders shall be dispensed from a sanitary self-dispensing
container.
   (D)   Eyebrow pencils shall be sharpened after each use.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.49 SANITATION OF EQUIPMENT AND IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   All equipment and implements coming in contact with a client must be
washed with a detergent (soap) product and then sanitized with Barbicide or
other approved disinfectant after each customer. Per the manufacture's label,
the contact time of Barbicide must be a minimum of ten minutes on implements or
equipment. Contact time less than ten minutes does not qualify as sanitizing.
The Barbicide solution must be made to the correct concentration, one part
Barbicide to 16 parts water (1:16), in accordance with the manufacturer's
label. Sanitization by other approved disinfectants must be in accordance with
the manufacturer's label.
   (B)   The pedicure bowl grate must be removed by the technician after each
customer, and the gate and the interior piping must be cleaned and sanitized
with Barbicide or other approved disinfectant after each use. The establishment
must have the proper tool to remove the grate.
   (C)   Hair brushes, combs and all other implements used on a customer shall
be kept clean and sanitary at all times and shall undergo thorough cleansing
and sanitizing after serving each customer or otherwise single-service
disposable implements shall be used.
   (D)   Cleaned and sanitized implements shall be stored in sanitary-covered
containers that shall contain a disinfectant. Cleaned and sanitized implements
may be stored properly covered in a clean drawer.
   (E)   Shaker-top containers must be provided for dispensing lotions and
powders.
   (F)   Single-service towels, papers emery boards, orange sticks, buffing
blocks, waxing sticks, cosmetic sponges and other material shall be disposed of
in the proper receptacle immediately after use on one customer and shall not be
used again.
   (G)   All disposable materials that come into contact with blood and/or body
fluids shall be disposed of in sealable plastic bags prior to placing in the
waste receptacle.
   (H)   All articles that come into direct contact with the customer's skin,
nails or hair that cannot be effectively cleaned and sanitized shall be
disposed of in a covered waste receptacle immediately after use. Exception:
orange-sticks, emery boards, buffing squares, cosmetic sponges and disposable
nail bits may be kept for the original customer, if kept in a covered container
labeled with the customer's name.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.50 HYGIENE OF OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person known to be affected with any communicable disease in an
infectious stage shall engage in barbering, hairdressing or cosmetology, and no
person so affected shall be employed as a barber, hairdresser or cosmetician.
   (B)   The hands of the operator shall be thoroughly washed with soap and
warm water and dried on single use paper towels before serving each customer
and immediately after using the toilet, or after eating.
   (C)   Operators shall not eat or drink while providing services to a
customer.
   (D)   Operators, licensed personnel, nail technicians and all other shop/
salon personnel shall wear clean, washable or disposable garments.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.51 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   Establishments must adhere to Connecticut General Statues regarding smoking
in public places.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.52 FOOD AND BEVERAGES.
   Foods and beverages shall not be prepared, stored or sold in the permitted
premises, except with a valid food permit from the City Public Health
Department.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.53 ANIMALS, PETS, REPTILES OR BIRDS.
   No animal, pet, reptile or bird shall be allowed in the work area or other
regulated areas of the establishment. This prohibition does not apply to those
with service animals for the disabled.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.54 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation shall be from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.55 BARBERSHOP OR HAIRDRESSING AND/OR COSMETOLOGY SHOP IN RESIDENCE.
   Assuming zoning compliance:
   (A)   A barbershop or hairdressing and/or cosmetology shop located in a
residence must be confined to a separate room, separated with ceiling-high
partitions and provided with a door to be closed at all times;
   (B)   The area within a home operated as a barbershop or hairdressing and/or
cosmetology shop must be equipped with the facilities and instruments required
in all such establishments and in conformance with all sections of this
regulation; and
   (C)   The bathroom must be in the same location in the house as the hair and
nail salon.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.56 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Director of Health shall have the authority to adopt technical
standards and associated inspection procedures to assure proper sanitary
maintenance and safe operation of barbershops, beauty salons and nail salons.
   (B)   The standards and inspection shall not contravene any of the
provisions of this chapter or any state or municipal laws, ordinances or
regulations and may be amended or revised as deemed necessary from time to time
by the Director of Health.
   (C)   Failure of a barbershop, beauty salon or nail salon operator to
achieve and maintain minimum requirements of these technical standards shall
constitute violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.57 MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS.
   Material safety data sheets (MSDS) shall be made available to the Director
of Health, or his designated agent, upon request.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
§ 122.58 NOTIFICATION OF PROVISIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Director of Health shall make all efforts to inform through all media
outlets, including mailed copies, licensed barbers/cosmetologists doing
business in the city concerning the provisions of this chapter and the
effective date.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
         
131.   LITTERING
         
132.   PANHANDLING CONTROL
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Public consumption and possession of alcoholic liquor
   
130.02   Display of obscene material to minors
   
130.03   Sale of goods received by persons on relief
   
130.04   Posting bills or notices
   
130.05   Putting unsolicited advertising in letter boxes
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. As defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 30-1.
      PARKED VEHICLE. As defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1.
      PARKING AREA. Lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
motor vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
      POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO CONSUME. Having in one's possession or control
alcoholic liquor in a glass, open bottle, open can or other open container so
as to permit consumption.
      PUBLIC HIGHWAY. A highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard or other way
within and under the control of the city and open to public use, including the
sidewalks of the highway.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. Except as permitted in division (C) of this section,
no person shall consume any alcoholic liquor or possess with intent to consume
any alcoholic liquor upon or within the limits of any public highway or
sidewalk or parking area within the city. For purposes of this section, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the consumption of alcoholic liquor
or the possession with intent to consume alcoholic liquor in parked vehicles
within or upon a public highway, sidewalk or parking area is a violation
hereof.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Consumption of alcoholic liquor and possession with the intent to
consume alcoholic liquor is permitted during any public function, festival or
celebration being conducted within a public highway, sidewalk or parking area
pursuant to a written permit issued by the Chief of Police, or person
designated by the Chief to issue the permits, authorizing the sale, service or
distribution of alcoholic liquor at or in connection with the function,
festival or celebration.
      (2)   An application for a permit shall be in writing directed to the
Chief of Police. The application shall state the name and address of
responsible officials of the organization sponsoring the function, festival or
celebration (event), specifically the parts of the public highway, sidewalk or
parking area to be used during the event, specifically the beginning and ending
time of the event and, if it continues for more than one day, the hours in each
day it is to be conducted, the number of people in attendance at the event and
whether the event is open to the public. The application shall be filed at
least ten calendar days before the first day of the event and the permit shall
be issued or denied in writing at least four calendar days before the first day
of the event. The permit shall be issued if all of the required information is
provided, the application is made at least ten days before the event, the Chief
of Police or his designee determines that the event will be open to the public
and that all necessary permits, licenses, and approvals have been obtained from
all government authorities having jurisdiction including, but not limited to,
the State Department of Liquor Control.
   (D)   In vehicles. Consumption of alcoholic liquor or possession with intent
to consume alcoholic liquor shall not be permitted in parked vehicles within or
upon public highways, streets or parking areas under any circumstances.
(1967 Code, § 13-15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the display of
obscene material to minors in the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EROTIC FONDLING. Touching a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic
area, buttocks or, if the person is a female, breast.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of a prohibited sexual act or sexually-explicit nudity, when:
         (a)   It predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid
interest of minors;
         (b)   It is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and/
or
         (c)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic,
educational, political or scientific value for minors.
      MASTURBATION. The real or simulated touching, rubbing or otherwise
stimulating a person's own clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks
or, if the person is female, breast, either by manual manipulation or with an
artificial instrument.
      MATERIAL. Anything tangible which is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse prurient, shameful or morbid interest, whether through reading,
observation, sound or any other manner.
      MINOR. Any person less than 17 years old.
      NUDE PERFORMANCE. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state in any play, motion picture, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
      OBSCENE TO MINORS. Material which depicts a prohibited sexual act or
sexually explicit nudity and, taken as a whole, it is harmful to minors.
      PROHIBITED SEXUAL ACT. Erotic fondling, nude performance, sexual
excitement, sadomasochistic abuse, masturbation or sexual intercourse.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Intercourse, real or simulated, whether genital-
genital, oral-genital, anal-genital or oral-anal, whether between persons of
the same or opposite sex or between a human and an animal, or with an
artificial genital.
      SEXUALLY EXPLICIT NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully-opaque covering of any
portions thereof below the top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
      VISIBLY DISPLAYED. The material is visible on a billboard, viewing
screen, marquee, newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display case or
other similar display area, that is visible from any part of the premises where
a minor is or may be allowed or permitted or invited as part of the general
public or otherwise, or that is visible from a public street, sidewalk, park,
alley, residence, playground, school or other place to which minors have
unrestrained and a reasonably anticipated access and presence.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. A person is guilty under this section of displaying
obscene material to minors when, having control or supervision of any business
or commercial establishment or premises, with knowledge of the content and
character of the material involved, he intentionally or recklessly does any of
the following:
      (1)   Visibly displays, exhibits or otherwise exposes to view, in that
part of the premises or immediately adjacent thereto, where a minor is or may
be allowed, permitted or invited, as part of the general public or otherwise,
all or any part of any material which is either of the following:
         (a)   Obscene as to minors, when taken as a whole; and
         (b)   Contains on its cover, package, wrapping or within the
advertisement therefor, depictions or photographs of sexually explicit nudity
or a prohibited sexual act.
      (2)   Hires, employs or otherwise places, supervises, controls or allows
in any business or commercial establishment or other place, any minor under
circumstances which would cause, lead or allow the minor to engage in the
business or activity of promoting or otherwise handling the material.
(1967 Code, § 13-16) (Ord. passed 9-11-1985) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SALE OF GOODS RECEIVED BY PERSONS ON RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, exchange or pawn any goods,
wares, merchandise or any other form of relief given or distributed by the
public welfare department or any other organization, private or public, or for
any person to purchase, exchange or receive as a pawn any such goods, wares or
merchandise.
(1967 Code, § 13-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 POSTING BILLS OR NOTICES.
   No person shall post up or affix in any manner any bill, placard or notice,
either written or printed, upon any fence, bridge, wall, post or upon any part
of any building, without the previous consent of the occupants thereof; or, if
there be no occupants, without the previous consent of the owners thereof; nor
upon any building, sidewalk, curbstone, tree, fence or post belonging to the
city, without consent of the Mayor or Board of Aldermen; nor upon any pole
belonging to any telegraph, telephone or electric light company, without the
previous consent of the company.
(1967 Code, § 13-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PUTTING UNSOLICITED ADVERTISING IN LETTER BOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or put in any letter
box maintained, annexed or attached, to any portion of a house or residence, in
the city, and intended for the reception of United States mail, for occupants,
tenant or tenants of the premises, any circular, handbills or advertising
matter whatsoever, not contained in an envelope, and directed to the owner or
owners of the letter box.
(1967 Code, § 13-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth for each offense in the
schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget
of the city, pursuant to §
41.11of this code.
(1967 Code, § 13-15)
   (C)   Violations of §
130.02 shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each separate item of material which is displayed in
violation of the section. Each day that any violations of §
130.02 occur, or continue to occur, shall constitute separate offenses and
shall be punishable as a separate violation or violations.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of as provided above and/or shall be summoned or brought to community
court pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The superior court judge
assigned to the community court may impose a penalty of community service, a
fine in accordance with this chapter or other penalty permitted by law.
(1967 Code, § 13-16)
(Ord. passed 12-6-1982; Ord. passed 9-11-1985; Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Ord.
passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 131: LITTERING
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Definitions
Litter and Dumping
   
131.15   Littering upon public property or another person's private property
   
131.16   Dumping upon public property or another person's private property;
investigation by Police Department; findings by the Mayor
   
131.17   Failure to remove materials; right of entry by the city
   
131.18   Inapplicability of §§ 131.15 through 131.17 to corporations taxed as
public service company under the state general statutes
   
131.19   Necessary findings precedent to order to remove
Graffiti
   
131.30   Prohibited acts
   
131.31   Violations and penalties
   
131.32   Rewards
Nuisance
   
131.45   Clearing of litter deemed dangerous to the public health, safety or
welfare
Citation Procedures
   
131.60   Citation appeals procedures
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks; littering prohibited, see §
98.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The term shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in the refuse collection division regulations.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses
incident to the meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any
kind, when either of the same is held, given or takes place in connection with
the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary
rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided
that, nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the
holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition or event of any kind, without a license, where the license is or may
be required by any law of the state or under any ordinance of the city; and
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   DUMP. The meaning as set forth in the state general statutes.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GRAFFITI. Any letters, numbers, word or words, writings or inscriptions,
symbols, drawings, carvings, stickers, etchings or any other marking of any
nature whatsoever which defaces, obliterates, covers, alters, damages or
destroys the real or personal property of another. This chapter shall not be
construed to prohibit easily removable chalk markings on public sidewalks and
streets used in connection with traditional children's games.
   LITTER. The meaning as set forth in the state general statutes.
   LITTER BAG. The meaning as set forth in the state general statutes.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. The meaning as set forth in the state general statutes.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal or state regulation, and any newspaper filed
and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES OR PROPERTY. Any dwelling, house, building or other
structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential
purposes, commercial or industrial purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily
or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and including any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, parking lot, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY or PUBLIC PLACE. The meaning as set forth in the state
general statutes.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and
solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH.
      (1)   Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cigars, cardboard,
glass, metal and plastic containers, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass,
bedding, crockery and similar materials.
      (2)   The placing of leaves in the street or alongside the curb, for
collection by a city agency during the period or periods of time specifically
authorized and proclaimed by the Police Department or the Board of Public
Works, should not be considered to be or included within RUBBISH, as defined
herein.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
LITTER AND DUMPING
§ 131.15 LITTERING UPON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR ANOTHER PERSON'S PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibition. In accordance with the provisions of the state general
statutes, no person shall throw (including, but not limited to, throwing from a
vehicle), scatter, spill or place or cause to be blown, scattered, spilled,
thrown or placed, or otherwise dispose of any litter upon any public property,
private property not owned by him or in the waters of the city (including, but
not limited to, any fountain, pond, stream or bay); the public or private
property of the city shall include, but not be limited to, any public highway,
public park (as further set forth in §
98.18), beach, campground, forest land, recreational area, private residential,
commercial or industrial purposes open or vacant private property, mobile
manufactured home park, highway, road, street or alley except:
      (1)   When the property is designated for the disposal of garbage and
refuse and the person is authorized to use the property for such purpose;
      (2)   Into a litter receptacle in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements upon any part of
the private or public property or waters.
   (B)   Additional prohibitions. The following actions shall constitute a
violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Driving or moving any truck or other vehicle within the city unless
the vehicle is so constructed or loaded or covered as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place;
      (2)   Throwing out, dropping or depositing within the city any litter,
handbill or other object from an aircraft;
      (3)   Posting or affixing any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public equipment or structure or
building, except as may be authorized or required by law;
      (4)   Failing to control litter on private property, by the owner, tenant
or person in charge of such property, so as to keep it from being blown by the
elements upon the sidewalk, street or other private property. In the event
litter is blown from the property onto adjacent public or private property, the
owner, tenant or person in control of the property shall be responsible for
clearing the litter from the adjacent public or private property;
      (5)   Sweeping into or depositing (whether by any person or person owning
or occupying a place of business) in any gutter, street or other public place
within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Any materials used to combat the
existence of ice and snow on streets and sidewalks used for public travel shall
not be considered litter. Accordingly:
         (a)   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their premises free of litter; and
         (b)   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
      (6)   Failing to maintain (by the owner or person in control of any
private property), at all times, the premises free of litter; provided that,
this section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection;
      (7)   Throwing or depositing any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city; or
distributing or selling any commercial handbill in any public place; provided
that, it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place
within the city for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept
it;
      (8)   Throwing or depositing or placing any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided that, it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it;
      (9)   Throwing, depositing or distributing any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon the private premises; provided that, in
case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this
chapter, the person, unless requested by anyone upon the premises not to do so,
may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon the inhabited private
premises, if the handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent the
handbill from being blown or drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets
or other public places; and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so
prohibited by federal postal law or regulations;
      (10)   The provisions of divisions (B)(7) through (9) above shall not
apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers (as
defined herein); except that, newspapers shall be placed on private property in
such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property;
      (11)   Throwing or depositing or attaching any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises that are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant; and/or
      (12)   Throwing, depositing or distributing any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone
thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous
position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing",
"No Peddlers or Agents", "No Advertisement", "Post No Bills" or any similar
notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises do not
desire to be molested or have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any
such handbills left upon the premises.
   (C)   Placement of refuse along curb for scheduled removal. The owner or
person in charge of any private property shall place refuse, along the curb,
for any regularly or specially scheduled pickup by the Department of Public
Works, no earlier than 24 hours prior to the pickup. Any such refuse shall be
so placed as to prevent it from being removed from, its location of placement
and distributed, blown, scattered or deposited by any means whatsoever,
including, but not limited to, the elements or the actions of animals, upon any
street, alley or other public or private property.
   (D)   Fine. Any person who violates any provision of divisions (A), (B) and
(C) of this section shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and as authorized by the state general statutes, which funds
shall be collected by the city and deposited into the general fund, unless a
special fund is otherwise designated by the Board of Aldermen.
   (E)   Prima facie offense. When any such material or substances are thrown,
blown, scattered or spilled from a vehicle, the operator thereof shall be
deemed prima facie to have committed such offense.
   (F)   Issuance of citations. Any police officer or other person authorized
by the Mayor may issue a citation to any person who commits violation of
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (G)   Citation hearing procedure. Citations for violations of this section
shall be issued, administered and enforced in accordance with the provisions of
§
131.60 below.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 131.16 DUMPING UPON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR ANOTHER PERSON'S PRIVATE PROPERTY;
INVESTIGATION BY POLICE DEPARTMENT; FINDINGS BY THE MAYOR.
   (A)   Investigation of dumping as defined in this chapter and the general
statutes.
      (1)   No person shall dump, as defined in this code and by the general
statutes, or allow a condition to persist as a result of dumping, any material
upon any public property or private property not owned by the person in the
city; except when:
         (a)   The property is lawfully designated for dumping or the property
is a licensed facility for such purpose; and
         (b)   The person is authorized to use the property.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense under this division that the dumping
occurred with the permission of the property owner. The Community Relations
Division of the Police Department of the city may, upon complaint or on its own
initiative, investigate any violation of this division.
   (B)   Investigation.
      (1)   No person shall dump, as defined in this division, any material
upon any public property or upon private property not owned by the person;
except when:
         (a)   The property is designated for dumping or the property is a
licensed facility for such purpose; and
         (b)   The person is authorized to use the property.
      (2)   The Community Relations Division of the Police Department of the
city may, upon complaint or on its own initiative, investigate any violation of
this division. It shall not be a defense under this division that the dumping
occurred with the permission of the property owner. As used in this division,
DUMP means to discard automobiles or automobile parts, large appliances, tires,
bulky waste, hazardous waste, as defined in the state general statutes, or any
other similar material.
   (C)   Finding of the Mayor: notice. If the Mayor, after investigation, finds
that there has been a violation of divisions (A) or (B) above, he may send a
notice to the owner of the property where such violation has occurred by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of record for property
tax purposes.
      (1)   Contents of notice. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A reference to the ordinance provision alleged to have been
violated;
         (b)   A short and plain statement of the matter asserted or charged;
         (c)   A demand that the property owner remove any material dumped in
violation of divisions (A) or (B) above to a solid waste facility approved by
the State Commissioner of Environmental Protection; and
         (d)   A statement that the property owner has the right to a hearing
to contest the Mayor's finding and the date, time and place for the hearing.
      (2)   Entitlement to hearing. The hearing shall be fixed for a date not
later than ten days after the notice is mailed. The hearing shall be completed
within 15 days after the hearing commences and a decision shall be rendered
within ten days of the completion of the hearing.
   (D)   Conduct of the hearing; designation of the Litter Control and
Beautification Commission as the Mayor's designee. The Mayor or his designee
shall hold a hearing upon the alleged violation unless the property owner fails
to appear at the hearing.
      (1)   Order. If the property owner fails to appear at the hearing or if,
after the hearing, the Mayor or his designee finds that material has been
dumped on the owner's property in violation of divisions (A) or (B) above and
the property owner has not removed the material to a solid waste facility
approved by the State Commissioner of Environmental Protection, the Mayor or
his designee may order that the property owner within 30 days remove the
material to a solid waste facility approved by the State Commissioner of
Environmental Protection.
      (2)   Notice of order. The Mayor or his designee shall send a copy of any
order issued pursuant to this division by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the property owner. The person may appeal from an order of the
Mayor or his designee under this division in accordance with the provisions of
the general statutes.
      (3)   Designation of the Litter Control and Beautification Commission.
For purposes of conducting the hearings required under this chapter, the Mayor
may designate the Litter Control and Beautification Commission as his designee;
unless he determines, in his sole discretion, to appoint another designee.
   (E)   Penalties for violation of divisions (A) or (B) above.
      (1)   Any person who violates divisions (A) or (B) above shall be liable
for a civil penalty as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties
and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code for each day the violation continues.
      (2)   The Superior Court, in an action brought by the city, shall have
jurisdiction to issue an order to such person directing the removal of the
material to a solid waste facility approved by the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection. If the court finds that the violation was willful, it
may impose a civil penalty equivalent to three times the cost of remediation of
the violation in addition to other applicable civil penalties. The court may
also order that a violator shall pay restitution to a landowner which the court
finds has suffered damages as a result of the violation.
      (3)   All such actions shall have precedence in the order of trial as
provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-191. Any such action by the Attorney General
shall be brought in the Superior Court for the Judicial District of Hartford.
      (4)   Any vehicle used by any person in violation of division (B) above
may be forfeited in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-250a.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 131.17 FAILURE TO REMOVE MATERIALS; RIGHT OF ENTRY BY THE CITY.
   If the owner fails to remove the material within 30 days from the date of
the order issued by the Mayor under §
131.16(D), and no appeal of the order has been taken in accordance with Conn.
Gen. Stat. § 8-8, the city may enter the property and remove the material to a
solid waste facility approved by the State Commissioner of Environmental
Protection.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
§ 131.18 INAPPLICABILITY OF §§ 131.15 THROUGH 131.17 TO CORPORATIONS TAXED AS
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY UNDER THE STATE GENERAL STATUTES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any corporation subject to
taxation as a public service company, pursuant to the state general statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
§ 131.19 NECESSARY FINDINGS PRECEDENT TO ORDER TO REMOVE.
   No property owner shall be ordered to remove dumped material by the Mayor
pursuant to §
131.16(C) and (D), unless:
   (A)   The Mayor finds that the property owner has dumped the material, or
knowingly allowed another person to dump the material, in violation of §
131.16(A) or (B); or
   (B)   The Mayor has determined that there is no reasonable opportunity to
compel the responsible party to remove the material or pay the costs of the
removal.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
GRAFFITI
§ 131.30 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall write, paint or place any paint, chalk or any other
substance or substances or otherwise mark, scratch, place, carve or etch
graffiti on the real or personal property of another, whether the real or
personal property be publicly or privately owned, unless the owner of the
property has specifically consented to the same, prior to the commission of the
act or acts.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of the property, or both, shall not permit
graffiti to remain on any residential, commercial or industrial property for a
period of more than five business days after notification by the Building
Official, in accordance with the provisions of §
150.60 of this code of ordinances as authorized by the state general statutes
pertaining to anti-blight.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.31 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Fine. In accordance with the provisions of the state general statutes,
any person violating any provision of §
131.30 shall be fined as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties
and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, for each day that a violation continues.
   (B)   Issuance of citations. Any police officer or other person authorized
by the Mayor may issue a citation to any person who commits violation of §
131.30.
   (C)   Citation hearing procedure. Citations for violations of §
131.30 shall be issued, administered and enforced in accordance with the
provisions of §
131.60 below.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 131.32 REWARDS.
   The Office of the Mayor, upon recommendation of the Litter Control and
Beautification Commission, is authorized to offer and pay a reward, as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code to any person who gives information that leads to the
citation of anyone who violates §
131.30.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
NUISANCE
§ 131.45 CLEARING OF LITTER DEEMED DANGEROUS TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY OR
WELFARE.
   (A)   Authority of the Director of Health. The Director of Health or his
authorized agent is authorized to examine all nuisances and sources of filth
injurious to the public health, cause the nuisances to be abated and cause to
be removed all filth which, in his judgment, may endanger the health of the
inhabitants in accordance with the provisions of the state general statutes.
   (B)   Responsibility of the owner or occupant. Any owner or occupant of any
property who maintains the property, whether real or personal, or any part
thereof, in a manner which violates the provisions of the Public Health Code
enacted pursuant to the authority of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-36 and 19a-37, as
amended from time to time, shall be deemed to be maintaining a nuisance or
source of filth injurious to the public health.
   (C)   Right of entry. The Director of Health or his authorized agent or a
sanitarian authorized by the Director may enter all places within his
jurisdiction where there is just cause to suspect any nuisance or source of
filth exists, and abate or cause to be abated the nuisance and remove or cause
to be removed the filth.
   (D)   Order of the Director of Health. When a nuisance or source of filth is
found on private property, the Director of Health shall order the owner or
occupant of the property, or both, to remove or abate the same within such time
as the Director directs.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order; institution of civil action. In the
event the order is not complied with, within the time fixed by the Director:
      (1)   The Director through the Office of the Corporation Counsel may
institute and maintain a civil action for injunctive relief in any court of
competent jurisdiction to require the abatement of the nuisance, the removal of
the filth and the restraining and prohibiting of acts which caused the nuisance
or filth and the court shall have power to grant the injunctive relief upon
notice and hearing;
      (2)   The owner or occupant of the property, or both, shall be subject to
a civil penalty as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code per day or the amount authorized by the state general
statutes, for each day such nuisance is maintained or the filth allowed to
remain after the time fixed by the Director in his order has expired; except
that, the owner or occupant of the property or any part thereof on which a
public eating place is conducted shall not be subject to the provisions of this
division, but shall be subject to the provisions of division (E)(3) below. The
civil penalty may be collected in a civil proceeding by the Director of Health
through the Office of the Corporation Counsel and shall be payable to the City
of Waterbury; and
      (3)   The owner or occupant of the property, or both, shall be subject to
the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-36, 19a-220 and 19a-230.
   (F)   Immediate hazard to health; ex parte injunction. If the Director
institutes an action for injunctive relief seeking the abatement of a nuisance
or the removal of filth, the maintenance of which is of so serious a nature as
to constitute an immediate hazard to the health of persons other than the
persons maintaining the nuisance or filth he may, upon a verified complaint
stating the facts which show the immediate hazard, apply for an ex parte
injunction requiring the abatement of the nuisance or the removal of the filth
and restraining and prohibiting the acts which caused the nuisance or filth to
occur, and for a hearing on an order to show cause why the ex parte injunction
should not be continued pending final determination on the merits of the
action. If the court finds that an immediate hazard to the health of persons
other than those persons maintaining the nuisance or source of filth exists,
the ex parte injunction shall be issued, provided a hearing on its continuance
pending final judgment is ordered held within seven days thereafter and
provided further that any persons so enjoined may make a written request to the
court or judge issuing the injunction for a hearing to vacate the injunction,
in which event the hearing shall be held within three days after the request is
filed.
   (G)   Power to preserve public health and spread of diseases. In furtherance
of the purposes of the provisions of this chapter pertaining to nuisances, the
Director of Health shall have and exercise all the power for preserving the
public health and preventing the spread of diseases.
   (H)   Expense of the owner or occupant. When the nuisance is abated or
source of filth is removed from private property, the abatement or removal
shall be at the, expense of the owner or occupant of the property, or both, and
damages for the abatement or removal may be recovered against them by the city
in, a civil action as provided herein or in a separate civil action brought by
the Director of Health through the Corporation Counsel.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CITATION PROCEDURES
§ 131.60 CITATION APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Administrative appeal procedure.
      (1)   Appointment of Hearing Officers. The Mayor shall appoint one or
more Hearing Officers (the "Hearing Officer") from among the members of the
Litter Control and Beautification Commission. The Hearing Officers shall not be
employees of any of the departments which issue citations pursuant to the code
of ordinances.
      (2)   Notice.
         (a)   At any time within 12 months from the expiration of the final
period for the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees for any
citation issued under any ordinance adopted pursuant to the state general
statutes for an alleged violation thereof, the city shall send notice to the
person cited.
         (b)   The notice shall inform the person cited:
            1.   Of the allegations against him and the amount of the fines,
penalties, costs or fees due;
            2.   That he may contest his liability before a Citation Hearing
Officer by delivering in person or by mail written notice within ten days of
the date thereof;
            3.   That if he does not demand such a hearing, an assessment and
judgment shall be entered against him; and
            4.   That the judgment may issue without further notice.
      (3)   Rights of the respondent.
         (a)   Admission of liability. If the person who is sent notice
pursuant to division (A)(2) above wishes to admit liability for any alleged
violation, he may, without requesting a hearing, pay the full amount of the
fines, penalties, costs or fees admitted to in person or by mail to an official
designated by the city. The payment shall be inadmissible in any proceeding,
civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of the person or other person
making the payment.
         (b)   Constructive admission of liability. Any person who does not
deliver or mail written demand for a hearing within ten days of the date of the
first notice provided for in division (A)(2) above shall be deemed to have
admitted liability, and the designated municipal official shall certify the
person's failure to respond to the Hearing Officer(s). The Hearing Officer(s)
shall thereupon enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees provided
for by the applicable ordinances and shall follow the procedures set forth in
division (C) below.
      (4)   Right to hearing. Any person who requests a hearing shall be given
written notice of the date, time and place for the hearing.
         (a)   Notice of hearing; postponement or continuance. The hearing
shall be held not less than 15 days, nor more than 30 days, from the date of
the mailing of notice; provided, the Hearing Officer(s) shall grant upon good
cause shown any reasonable request by any interested party for postponement or
continuance.
   (B)   Formal hearing appeal procedure.
      (1)   Power of the Hearing Officer(s). The Hearing Officer(s) shall be
empowered to hear appeals from the issuance of citations or violations of this
chapter or other pertinent enforcement provisions of this code.
      (2)   Initial notice of violation deemed a business record. An original
or certified copy of the initial notice of violation issued by the issuing
official or police officer shall be filed and retained by the city, and shall
be deemed to be a business record within the scope permitted by the general
statutes and evidence of the facts contained therein.
      (3)   Presence of issuing official or police officer. The presence of the
issuing official or police officer shall be required at the hearing if the
person so requests.
      (4)   Appearance of respondent required. A person wishing to contest his
liability shall appear at the hearing and may present evidence in his behalf.
         (a)   Failure to appear. If the person fails to appear, the Hearing
Officer may enter an assessment by default against him upon a finding of proper
notice and liability under the applicable statutes or ordinances.
         (b)   Exception. The Hearing Officer(s) may accept from the person
copies of police reports, investigatory and citation reports, and other
official documents by mail and may determine thereby that the appearance of the
person is unnecessary.
      (5)   Presentation of city's evidence. A designated municipal official,
other than the Hearing Officer(s), may present evidence on behalf of the
municipality.
      (6)   Conduct of hearing. The Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing
in the order and form and with such methods of proof as he deems fair and
appropriate. The rules regarding the admissibility of evidence shall not be
strictly applied, but all testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
      (7)   Announcement of decision. The Hearing Officer(s) shall announce his
decision at the end of the hearing.
         (a)   Dismissal. If the Hearing Officer(s) determine(s) that the
person is not liable, the Officer(s) shall dismiss the matter and enter the
determination in writing accordingly.
         (b)   Finding of liability: assessment. If the Hearing Officer(s)
determine(s) that the person is liable for the violation, the Officer(s) shall
forthwith enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees against the
person as provided by the applicable ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Notice of assessment; effect.
      (1)   Notice of assessment. If the assessment is not paid on the date of
its entry, the Hearing Officer(s) shall send by first class mail a notice of
the assessment to the person found liable.
      (2)   Filing certified copy of notice of assessment with the Clerk of the
Superior Court; record of assessment. Not less than 30 days, not more than 12
months, after the mailing (set forth in division (C)(1) above), the Hearing
Officer(s) shall file a certified copy of the notice of assessment with the
clerk of a superior court facility designated by the Chief Court Administrator
(as of the date of adoption hereof, the facility has been designated by the
Chief Court Administrator as the Judicial District courthouse for the judicial
district in which the city is located), together with the appropriate entry
fee. The certified copy of the notice of assessment shall constitute a record
of assessment. Within the 12-month period, assessments against the same person
may be accrued and filed as one record of assessment.
         (a)   Entry of judgment. The clerk shall enter judgement in the amount
of the record of assessment and court costs allowed by the general statutes in
favor of the city.
         (b)   Effect of judgment; levy of execution permitted. Notwithstanding
any provision of the general statutes, the Hearing Officers assessment, when so
entered as a judgment, shall have effect of a civil money judgment and a levy
of execution on the judgment may issue without further notice, to the person.
   (D)   Right to judicial review. A person against whom an assessment has been
entered pursuant to division (C) above is entitled to judicial review by way of
appeal. An appeal shall be instituted within 30 days of the notice of the
assessment by filing a petition to reopen assessment, together with an entry
fee in an amount equal to the entry fee for a small; claims case, as set forth
in the general statutes, at a Superior Court facility designated by the Chief
Court Administrator, (as of the date of adoption hereof, the facility has been
designated by the Chief Court Administrator as the Judicial District courthouse
for the judicial district in which the city is located) which shall entitle the
person to a hearing in accordance with the Rules of the Judges of the Superior
Court.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and/or shall be summoned or brought to community court
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d). The Superior Court judge assigned to
the community court may impose a penalty of community service, a fine as set
forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, or other penalty permitted by law. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 132: PANHANDLING CONTROL
Section
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Prohibited acts
   
132.04   Interpretation
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve the public order, to protect the
citizens of the City of Waterbury and to ensure the safe and uninterrupted
passage of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic, without unconstitutionally
impinging upon protected speech, expression or conduct.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ASK, BEG, OR SOLICIT ALMS. Includes the spoken, written, or printed word or
such other act conducted for the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation or
money or thing of value.
   FALSE OR MISLEADING MANNER. Includes, but is not limited to, the asking,
begging, or soliciting of alms, including money and other things of value,
through utilization of any of the following representations:
      (1)   Stating or expressing that the donation is needed to meet a
specific need, when the solicitor already has sufficient funds to meet that
need and does not disclose that fact;
      (2)   Stating that the solicitor is from out of town and stranded, when
that is not true;
      (3)   Wearing or displaying an indication of physical disability, when
the solicitor does not suffer the disability indicated; or
      (4)   Use of any makeup or device to simulate deformity.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
§ 132.03 PROHIBITED ACTS .
   (A)   Approaching, speaking to or following a person in a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm.
   (B)   Approaching, speaking to or following a person in a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear the commission of a criminal act upon the
person, or upon property in the person's immediate possession.
   (C)   Touching another person without that person's consent.
   (D)   Blocking or interfering with the safe or free passage of a person or
vehicle in a way likely to cause bodily harm or property damage.
   (E)   Directing abusive or profane language toward any person.
   (F)   Asking, begging, or soliciting alms, including money and other things
of value, in a false or misleading manner.
   (G)   Continuing to ask, beg, or solicit alms from a person after the person
has made a negative response.
   (H)   Following the person solicited before, after or while asking, begging
or soliciting alms.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
§ 132.04 INTERPRETATION.
   No provision of this section shall be interpreted or construed to prohibit
speech, expression or conduct protected by the laws or constitutions of the
United States or of the State of Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
fine is provided, shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the schedule of
fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code and/or shall be summoned or brought to community court
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 51-181c(d).
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDINGS
         
151.   ELECTRICITY
         
152.   ENTERPRISE ZONE
         
153.   FLOOD CONTROL
         
154.   HOUSING CODE
         
155.   INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES
         
156.   PLUMBING
         
157.   SIGNS
         
158.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
159.   ZONING
         
160.   LANDLORD REGISTRATION
         
161.   DONATION BINS
         
162.   LAND BANK
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Amendments, deletions and additions
   
150.03   Highest standards prevail
   
150.04   Safety features required; new multi-family dwellings and commercial
buildings
   
150.05   Costs of independent review of building design
   
150.06   Building permit requirements
   
150.07   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.08   Delay of demolition
Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration
   
150.15   Inspector
   
150.16   Heating permit fees
   
150.17   Refrigeration and air conditioning permit fees
   
150.18   Failure to obtain building permit; refund of fees
Gas Piping and Appliances
   
150.30   Compliance with state law
   
150.31   Installations generally
   
150.32   Stopping use of defective appliances
   
150.33   Gas Advisory Committee
House Numbering
   
150.45   Numbers required
   
150.46   Size and style
   
150.47   How assigned
   
150.48   How placed
Blight Elimination
   
150.60   Title
   
150.61   Legislative authority
   
150.62   Findings and purpose
   
150.63   Definitions
   
150.64   Blighted premises prohibited; notice to owner and occupant;
municipality authorized to remediate blighted conditions without consent
   
150.65   Criminal violation and civil penalties
   
150.66   Blight civil penalty citation hearing procedure
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Department of inspection established, see Charter § 7E-2
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city, by reference and made part hereof as
though fully set forth herein, that certain building code known as the "State
of Connecticut Basic Building Code", save and except such portions as are
hereafter deleted, modified or amended.
(1967 Code, § 5-1)
Statutory reference:
   City authorized to adopt state building code, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-252
§ 150.02 AMENDMENTS, DELETIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   The following sections of the Building Code adopted by the preceding section
are amended as herein set forth:
   (A)   Section 301.1. Amended by adding at the end thereof the following
provision: "                those lines set forth in the ‘Ordinance Concerning
Fire District' of the City of Waterbury."
   (B)   Article 17. Deleted and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:
      "1.   The installation, repair, replacement, or alteration in any
building or structure of any plumbing shall comply with the plumbing code of
the city."
      "2.   The installation, repair, replacement, or alteration in any
building or structure of any gas piping shall comply with Article II of this
chapter."
   (C)   Article 15. Deleted and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:
      "All new electric wiring for light, heat, and power service equipment,
and all alterations or extensions to existing wiring systems in buildings and
structures shall comply with Chapter 6 of this Code."
   (D)   Section 128.22. Deleted and the following is substituted in lieu
thereof:
      "Qualification of Board Members. One of said members shall be a licensed
architect, one of said members shall be a mason contractor, one of said members
shall be a carpenter contractor, one of said members shall be a heating and
plumbing contractor, one of said members shall be a refrigeration engineer. In
each case, the member shall have at least five years' experience devoted full
time to the occupation or profession in question. The recommendations of the
local professional or business organization composed of members of the
profession or occupation involved shall be considered in the making of
appointments to such Board."
   (E)   Section 128.3. Amended by adding at the end thereof: ". . . . and
shall be based upon the time they are actually engaged in discharging the
duties herein set forth."
   (F)   Sections 107.1, 107.2 and 107.3. Deleted.
   (G)   Provisions added. The following provisions are added to the Building
Code:
      (1)   Owners of existing constructed buildings, porches and verandas and
entrances which involve serious fire and life hazards or which are so located
as to form conflagration breeders shall protect the floor, stairs, fire walls
and exposed window openings.
      (2)   All aluminum and steel siding shall be grounded.
      (3)   The inside faces of brickwork on chimneys shall be heavily pargeted
with fire clay before setting each section of lining.
      (4)   Damp-proofing shall be concrete supplement used integrally
according to the manufacturer's specifications. All tie rods shall be removed,
and waterplugged from the exterior.
      (5)   Before a permit shall be issued by the Building Official for the
erection of any building within ten feet of the street line, a surety bond of
$5,000 shall be furnished the city, in form satisfactory to the Corporation
Counsel, conditioned to save the city harmless against any loss, cost, or
damage arising out of injuries sustained by any person by reason of the
construction of such building for which the city would be liable while such
building is under construction, or until such building is erected.
      (6)   The span tables authorized as official by the building code
indicate proper and safe use of lumber according to the grade and species. All
lumber used structurally shall be marked clearly as to grade and species by an
approved agency.
   (H)   Section 113.1. As modified by § 101.1 of the State Basic Building Code
which prohibits any person, firm, or corporation from erecting, constructing,
enlarging, altering, repairing, improving, moving or demolishing any building
or structure without first obtaining a separate building permit for each
building or structure from the Building Official and provides that the Building
Official must examine all plans and specifications for the proposed
construction when application is made to him for a building permit, § 113.1 is
amended as follows:
      (1)   The Building Official shall review all building permit applications
for new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building
site is in a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement, including prefabricated and mobile homes, must be
designed or modified and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure; must use construction materials and utility
equipment that are resistant to flood damage; and must use construction methods
and practices that will minimize flood damage.
      (2)   The Building Official and/or City Engineer shall review subdivision
proposals and other proposed new developments to assure that all such proposals
are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage, all public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems are located,
elevated, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and adequate
drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (3)   The Building Official and/or City Engineer shall require new or
replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems to be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters, and require on-site waste
disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination from them during flooding.
(1967 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. passed 4-21-1975)
§ 150.03 HIGHEST STANDARDS PREVAIL.
   Any provision of this chapter or other ordinance or regulation which
prescribes a standard or requirement not prescribed by the Building Code
adopted by §
150.01, or whenever the standard or requirement imposed under this chapter or
ordinance or regulation is higher or more strict than that required under the
Building Code, the standard or requirement imposed by this chapter or ordinance
or regulation shall prevail.
(1967 Code, § 5-3)
§ 150.04 SAFETY FEATURES REQUIRED; NEW MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS.
   The following safety precautions are required to be initiated in all new
multi-family dwellings, business buildings and commercial buildings more than
one story in height with multi-occupancies on each floor:
   (A)   Built-in illuminated "Exit" signs with arrows indicating direction of
egress in case of emergency; and
   (B)   An emergency lighting system to illuminate hallways and "Exit" signs
in case of power failure.
(1967 Code, § 5-3.1) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 COSTS OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF BUILDING DESIGN.
   Where the General Statutes mandate that the local building official hire
independent architectural or engineering consultants to review construction
plans, the costs of the independent plan review shall be assessed against the
permit applicant prior to receipt of a certificate of occupancy.
(1967 Code, § 5-3.2) (Ord. passed 2-6-1989)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commence construction, alteration or addition
of any building, or excavation for any building, structure or use, until the
application and plans therefor have been approved by the Building Official and
a permit therefore has been issued in accordance with this section. All
building permits shall require a formal application in writing. No permit shall
be issued to an applicant who is delinquent to the city for taxes and/or water
rents and/or sewer use charges, as attested by the Tax Collector.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Official may submit the permit application for
review and approval to any city official or his respective designees,
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Fire Marshal;
         (c)   Inland Wetlands Coordinator;
         (d)   City Planner;
         (e)   City Engineer;
         (f)   Director of Health;
         (g)   Traffic Engineer;
         (h)   Superintendent of Waste Disposal; and
         (i)   Superintendent of Water.
      (2)   When the Building Official has submitted the application for review
to any such person, no permit shall be effective without the person's approval.
   (C)   The approval by the officials or their designees shall be in writing.
The Building Official shall coordinate the processing of all permit
applications.
   (D)   The application for a building permit must be accompanied by a plot
plan containing all the information necessary to enable the Building Official
to decide whether the proposed building, alteration, addition or use complies
with all the provisions of the State of Connecticut Building Code. The plot
plan shall be a Class A-2 survey map prepared by a Connecticut-registered land
surveyor, showing all lot lines accurately indicated by stakes or markers, both
on the map and on the ground, in order to determine compliance. The map shall
include proposed construction, additions and renovations with front yard, side
yards and rear yard, off-street parking, and accessory buildings. The map shall
also include zoning lot area, lot coverage, first floor elevations, existing
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water main pipe and elevation if existing or
proposed, unless the Building Official determines that the items are not
required.
   (E)   Approval by the Health Department for on-site sewage disposal is also
required.
   (F)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction or use of a building for which a building permit has been issued
or for which a building permit application has been submitted to the Building
Official before the effective date of these regulations.
   (G)   When fabrication has not been begun within six months from the date of
the issuance of the permit or where the footing course of the foundation of the
structure has not been laid within that period, the building permit shall be
void, but the Building Official may grant an extension of six months.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building or structure erected or altered after October 1, 1970
shall be occupied or used, in whole or in part, until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Official, certifying that the
building, structure or work performed pursuant to the building permit
substantially conforms to the provisions of the State Building Code and the
regulations lawfully adopted under said Code.
   (B)   Where an as-built certificate is required for construction, a final
as-built certification must be submitted prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (C)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Official and copies shall be furnished upon request.
   (D)   Where the alteration does not require the vacating of the premises or
where parts of the premises are finished and ready for occupancy before the
completion of the alteration or, in the case of a new structure, before its
completion, a partial certificate of occupancy may be issued.
   (E)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the city officials
designated on the building permit, or their designees, attest in writing to the
Building Official that the use and occupancy conforms to all codes and
ordinances pertaining to their respective office and is in conformance with the
original permit. The Building Official shall coordinate all certificate of
occupancy applications.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
§ 150.08 DELAY OF DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148
(c)(10)(F) and §§ 29-404 to 29-408, as amended from time to time. It is
designed to further the preservation, rehabilitation, and reuse of historic
resources to promote the city's cultural, economic, social and general welfare,
and improve property values. This section is intended to provide adequate time
for all parties to consider and put forth appropriate development alternatives
to demolition of such resources where they are not otherwise protected;
including but not limited to provide advocates time to research and document
the historic resource, consult with the property owner on alternatives to
demolition, or find a potential purchaser to preserve the building or relocate
it.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following words,
terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
      APPLICANT. Any person or entity who files an application with the city
for a demolition permit.
      BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
      DEMOLITION. Any wrecking activity directed to the disassembling,
dismantling, dismembering and/or razing of any structure or fixtures and parts
thereof not exempted under the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-402(c); and
also includes the act or process of delaying or withholding maintenance of a
building or structure in such a way as to cause or allow significant loss of
architectural integrity or structural stability.
      STRUCTURE. Any assembly of materials above or below ground level forming
a construction for occupancy or use including, but not limited to, buildings,
stone walls, stadiums, platforms, radio towers, storage tanks, towers,
trestles, sheds, coal bins, bridges, boilers, shelters and display signs. The
term STRUCTURE shall include a structure or any part or parts thereof.
   (C)   Review process.
      (1)   Pursuant to City Code §
150.06, no person shall demolish any building, structure or part thereof
without obtaining a demolition permit from the building official or his/her
designee. The building official or his/her designee shall review and determine
whether a permit may be issued in accord with this section, or such other
ordinances as may restrain issuance of such permit.
      (2)   A building, structure or part thereof which is proposed to be
demolished is subject to delay of demolition if it is subject to any of the
following:
         (a)   It is on, or under consideration to be put on, the list of
individual properties on the National Register of Historic Places or the state
register of historic places; or
         (b)   It is located within a district on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state register of historic places.
      (3)   If it is determined that the proposed demolition is subject to
delay, the building official or his/her designee shall inform the applicant in
writing that a waiting period of 90 days from the date of receipt of the
application will be imposed before granting the demolition permit, in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-406(b) as amended from time to time.
      (4)   During the waiting period referred to in this section, the
applicant shall take no action toward demolition of the building, structure or
part thereof, including, but not limited to, site remediation and asbestos
abatement.
   (D)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   In addition to providing written notice to abutting property owners
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-407, an applicant subject to delay shall
provide public notice in the following manner and provide evidence of
compliance to the building official or his/her designee.
         (a)   The applicant desiring to perform such demolition shall provide
a written notice of the proposed demolition, approved by the Building
Department, via certified mail to all owners of property adjoining the property
upon which the building, structure or part thereof to be demolished is located,
all as verified from the most current Real Property Records on file in the
Office of the City Tax Assessor (or the actual owners of record if otherwise
known to the applicant). Such written notice shall be so mailed not later than
20 days after the building official informs the applicant that demolition of
the building, structure or part thereof is subject to delay, and such notice
shall contain that an application has been filed for a demolition permit; the
date of the filing of such application; the common name, if any, of the subject
property; a photograph of the building, structure or part thereof to be
demolished; the street address of the property upon which the proposed
demolition is being sought; the name and address of the owner of said property;
the proposed date of demolition; the age of the building, structure or part
thereof to be demolished; and that unless written objection is filed with the
Building Official within 30 days of publication of the notice, the permit may
be issued after the expiration of such 90-day period. The certified mail
receipts shall be submitted to the Building Department at the time of the
application.
          (b)   Publish a legal notice of the demolition permit application in
a daily or weekly newspaper having a substantial circulation within the
municipality. The notice shall be published not later than 20 days after the
building official informs the applicant that the building, structure or part
thereof is subject to delay. Such notice shall state the following: that an
application has been filed for a demolition permit; the date of the filing of
such application; the common name, if any; a photograph of the building,
structure or part thereof to be demolished; the street address of the property
upon which the proposed demolition is being sought; the name and address of the
owner of said property; the proposed date of demolition; the age of the
building, structure or part thereof to be demolished; and that unless written
objection is filed with the Building Official within 30 days of publication of
the notice, the permit may be issued after the expiration of such 90-day
period. A copy of the published notice shall be submitted to the Building
Department at the time of the application.
         (c)   Sign to be posted. The building official or his/her designee
shall furnish the applicant with a notice of intent to demolish sign. The
applicant shall post the sign in a conspicuous place on site that is viewable
from a public street. The posting shall be done within 20 days following the
filing of a permit request. The sign shall be posted for the entire 90-day
period from the date of the demolition permit application.
   (E)   Delay of demolition notification list.
      (1)   The building official shall maintain a list of parties who have
made a written request to receive notices of demolition permit applications
relating to properties that are subject to a delay of demolition. In order to
be included on said notification list, a request must contain the name and
mailing address to which notices are to be sent. The notification list will
remain in effect for one year commencing each January.
      (2)   The city plan department shall notify parties who have made a
written request for notification under the preceding division by November 30 of
each year that any party wishing to be included on said notification list for
the following year must submit a written request to the building official
before December 31.
      (3)   Whenever the building official determines that an application for a
demolition permit meets the criteria of division (C)(2) above, the building
official or his or her designee shall promptly cause notice of said application
to be sent by United States mail to all parties on the notification list.
   (F)   Delay of demolition.
      (1)   If a written objection to the issuance of the demolition permit is
filed with the building official by any individual, firm, corporation,
organization or other entity within 30 days following publication or receipt of
the legal notice as required pursuant to division (D) above, and if the
building official determines that the building, structure or part thereof
proposed to be demolished falls within the scope of division (C)(2) above, the
building official, or his/her designee, shall delay the issuance of the
permit for a period of 90 days from the receipt of the application. If no
objection to the demolition of the subject building, structure or part thereof,
is filed within 30 days of said publication, the building official or his/her
designee may issue the permit after the expiration of such 90-day period.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to a building, structure, or part
thereof, if:
         (a)   An authorized federal, state or local official has ordered
demolition because of a threat to public health or safety;
         (b)   Its demolition has been specifically considered and approved
within the foregoing public procedures, which must include at least one public
hearing, and an application must have been filed indicating that a specific
notice of an intention to demolish was given; or
         (c)   It is a part of a project or planned development district
containing a specific list of properties to be demolished, as approved by the
Board of Aldermen, Zoning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or City Plan
Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-23-2019)
HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, REFRIGERATION
§ 150.15 INSPECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be a Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning
Inspector in the Department of Inspection, appointed by the Mayor and approved
by the Board of Aldermen, who shall enforce the heating, air conditioning and
refrigeration provisions contained in the Building Code adopted by §
150.01.
      (2)   The Inspector shall be a qualified mechanical engineer with five
years' practical experience or have been gainfully employed for the most recent
ten years in the design and installations of heating, air conditioning or
refrigeration installations and equipment.
(1967 Code, § 5-4)
   (B)   Among the Inspector's duties shall be in relation to the heating, air
conditioning and refrigeration provisions of the Building Code adopted by §
150.01, the issuance of permits upon approval of plans; the receipt and filing
of all plans; and inspection and approval of all necessary installations; the
recording of all inspections and other official actions; the report of
violations of the applicable provisions of that Code and determining a
reasonable time in which the correction of the violations shall be made; and
the performance of other duties as are directly assigned to him from time to
time.
(1967 Code, § 5-5)
§ 150.16 HEATING PERMIT FEES.
   The heating permit fees on new or replacement units shall be based on the
total cost of the job, including electric heat, as set forth in the schedule of
fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
   (A)   A heating permit shall not be required for the installation of any
standing space heater, gas or oil, up to and including 50,000 BTUs output;
provided that, there shall be no duct work extending from or to the above-
specified space heater.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, there shall be no fee
charged in cases where the cost is less than $100.
(1967 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 11-22-1982; Ord. passed
5-19-2003)
§ 150.17 REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The refrigeration permit fee shall be based on the cost of the
refrigeration unit and shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
      (1)   The fees shall include all refrigeration with the exception of
domestic refrigerators and freezers.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, there shall be no fee
charged in cases where the cost is less than $100.
   (B)   The air conditioning permit fee shall be based on the cost of the air
conditioning unit and shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
      (1)   Additionally, a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code shall be charged for each air-conditioning unit of the
portable type which is contained in its own permanently built-in compartments
and has its own source of electric supply, regardless of voltage. The fee shall
apply whether or not built-in compartments contain units.
      (2)   There shall be no fee for the portable type air-conditioning units
installed in windows of residential establishments.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, there shall be no fee
charged in cases where the cost is less than $100.
(1967 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 11-22-1982; Ord. passed
5-19-2003; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
§ 150.18 FAILURE TO OBTAIN BUILDING PERMIT; REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Any person who does not obtain a permit issued by the Department of
Inspections for building, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical,
sheet metal work or otherwise required under this subchapter shall be subject
to a fine to be paid to the Building Official.
   (B)   (1)   Where a permit is revoked, abandoned or discontinued, the volume
of work actually completed shall be computed by the Building Official and any
excess fee for the incomplete work shall be returned to the permit holder.
      (2)   Where no work has begun, the entire fee less 10% shall be returned
to the permit holder.
      (3)   Refund of the fees shall be subject to approval by the Board of
Aldermen.
(1967 Code, § 5-8.1) (Ord. passed 2-11-1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
GAS PIPING AND APPLIANCES
§ 150.30 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The installation of gas piping and gas appliances in all buildings shall
comply with the statutes of the state, any orders, rules and regulations issued
by authority thereof, the provisions of any other provision of this chapter or
applicable ordinance, and with reasonable standards of safety to persons and
property. In the absence of any statute or ordinance governing the
installation, conformity with the standards set forth in Pamphlet 221.30,
entitled American Standard Installation of Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in
Buildings, dated December 5, 1950, on file in the office of the City Clerk, and
any amendments thereof, hereafter filed in the office, shall be deemed a
compliance with reasonable standards of safety to persons and property.
(1967 Code, § 5-9) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of gas appliances and piping, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-329
§ 150.31 INSTALLATIONS GENERALLY.
   No gas appliance shall be installed or used in the city which does not
comply with reasonable standards of safety to persons and property. A gas
appliance shall be deemed to comply with such standards only if it complies
with standards of construction and performance determined by a nationally
recognized testing agency adequately equipped and competent to perform the
services. A nationally recognized testing agency shall be deemed to be one
which maintains a program of national inspection of production models of all
approved types of gas appliances at least once each year on the manufacturer's
premises, such as The American Gas Association Testing Laboratories or any
other nationally recognized testing agency, as herein defined. The attachment
of a seal of approval of such an agency to any gas appliance shall conclusively
establish that the appliance complies with reasonable standards of safety to
persons and property.
(1967 Code, § 5-10) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32 STOPPING USE OF DEFECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If any installation or use of any gas piping or of any gas appliance shall
be found by the Fire Marshal to constitute a condition dangerous to life or
property, according to the standards of safety provided in this subchapter, and
if any gas piping or any gas appliance shall be found by the Fire Marshal to be
in disrepair and defective so as to constitute a condition dangerous to life or
property according to the standards of safety provided in this subchapter, he
may require the person having control of the same to discontinue the use
thereof while remaining in the condition and, in addition, may require the
utility company supplying gas to the premises in which the gas piping or
appliance is located to discontinue service to the premises for so long as the
dangerous condition shall continue.
(1967 Code, § 5-11) Penalty, see §
150.99 
§ 150.33 GAS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Mayor may appoint persons as he deems proper to constitute a Gas
Advisory Committee for the purpose of gathering field data on the operation of
this subchapter and to advise the Fire Marshal and assist him in improving its
operation. The members of the Gas Advisory Committee shall serve without
compensation and at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(1967 Code, § 5-12)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 150.45 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   Numbers of regular series shall be affixed to, or inscribed on, all
buildings, or parts of buildings, erected or fronting on any street, alley or
public court in the city.
(1967 Code, § 5-14) Penalty, see §
150.99
Charter reference:
   Authority of Board of Aldermen to require house numbering, see Charter § 3A-
2(i)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 99
§ 150.46 SIZE AND STYLE.
   The numbers shall be of a color different from and in distinct contrast to
their background; shall be of such size and material and in the location as to
be at all times by daylight plainly legible from the middle of the street; and
shall, in no case, be less than two and one-half inches in height.
(1967 Code, § 5-15) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 HOW ASSIGNED.
   The Bureau of Engineering shall arrange the series and designate the number
or numbers to be affixed to the buildings, or parts of buildings, and shall
keep a record thereof.
(1967 Code, § 5-16)
§ 150.48 HOW PLACED.
   In case the numbered building is so situated that the number upon it is not
plainly visible from the middle of the street in daylight, an additional number
or numbers shall be placed at the street entrance, upon a fence or post, or
adjacent building, in a way as to be plainly visible from the middle of the
street.
(1967 Code, § 5-17) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to assign street numbers to buildings, see Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-148
BLIGHT ELIMINATION
§ 150.60 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known, and may be referred to as, the "Blight
Elimination Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.61 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-148(c)(7)(H)
(xv) and 7-152c, and Public Acts 2012, No. 12-146.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.62 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Urban blight is the process whereby a functioning city, or part of a
city, falls into disrepair and decrepitude. This process includes de-
industrialization, de-population, economic restructuring, abandoned buildings,
high local unemployment, fragmented families, political disenfranchisement,
crime and a desolate, inhospitable urban landscape. Since the 1970s, major
structural changes in global economies, transportation and government policy
created economic and social conditions resulting in urban blight.
   (B)   Within Waterbury, there exist many blighted properties. These blighted
properties contribute to the decline of neighborhoods and adversely affect the
prosperity of Waterbury. Blighted properties are inimical to the health, safety
and welfare of Waterbury residents. Blighted properties must be rehabilitated,
reconstructed, demolished or reused to provide decent, safe and sanitary
housing and commercial facilities. The rehabilitation, reconstruction,
demolition and reuse of these blighted properties will eliminate, remedy and
reverse urban decay within Waterbury.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.63 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED PREMISES. Any building, structure or parcel of land in which at
least one of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   It is dilapidated, as defined in this section, and as documented by
the building official;
      (2)   It is attracting criminal activity, as documented by the police
department;
      (3)   It is a fire hazard as determined by the fire marshal, or as
documented by the fire department;
      (4)   It is determined, by the building official or director of health,
that the building, structure or parcel of land is in a condition that poses a
threat to the safety, health, morals or general welfare of the community;
      (5)   It is not being maintained, as evidenced by the existence of one or
more of the following conditions:
         (a)   A missing door or windows;
         (b)   A collapsed or missing wall, roof or floor;
         (c)   Damaged or absent siding;
         (d)   Peeling or chipping paint in exceeding 33% of the structure's
total exposed surface area;
         (e)   A structurally compromised foundation;
         (f)   Garbage, trash or two or more unregistered or junk motor
vehicles on the premises, unless operating as a licensed junk yard;
         (g)   An overgrown lawn, wherein the grass or weeds have grown to at
least nine inches in length. For purposes of this subdivision, the term LAWN
means a plot of grass, including any weeds, customarily tended or mowed,
adjacent to and/or a part of a residence, business, commercial entity, or
estate: or
         (h)   The presence of graffiti upon any structure for a period of more
than five business days after the owner or occupant was notified of the duty to
remove said graffiti.
      (6)   It causes depreciation of property values in the neighborhood;
      (7)   It creates a substantial and unreasonable interference with the
lawful use and enjoyment of other properties in the neighborhood; or
      (8)   For residences served by residential curbside collection of wastes
and recyclables, the placement of a trash can or recycling container within ten
feet, or a lesser distance deemed reasonable under the circumstances, of the
street or curbline earlier than 24 hours before the scheduled time of
collection, or the failure to remove said trash can or recycling container from
said location more than 24 hours after said wastes and recyclables have been
collected.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. As defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-260.
   DILAPIDATED. Any building or structure or part thereof that cannot qualify
for a certificate of use and occupancy, or is deemed an unsafe structure,
pursuant to the Building Code, §§ 29-252-ld et seq. of the Regulations of
Connecticut State Agencies, or any dwelling or dwelling unit that is designated
as unfit for human habitation pursuant to the Housing Code,
Chapter 154 of this code.
   LEGAL OCCUPANCY. Human habitation that is legal by virtue of compliance with
Building Code, Fire Safety Code, Health and Sanitation Code, Housing Code,
Zoning and any other pertinent rule, and demonstrated by proof of occupancy
evidenced through a bona fide lease agreement, rent receipt or utility
statement.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. An area of the city comprising premises or parcels of land,
any part of which is within a radius of 800 feet of any part of the subject
parcel.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.64 BLIGHTED PREMISES PROHIBITED; NOTICE TO OWNER AND OCCUPANT;
MUNICIPALITY AUTHORIZED TO REMEDIATE BLIGHTED CONDITIONS WITHOUT CONSENT.
   (A)   Within the City of Waterbury, all owners of real property and tenants
shall maintain their property so that the property is not blighted, as defined
by this Code of Ordinances. No such owner or tenant shall allow, create,
maintain or cause to be created or maintained any blighted property.
   (B)   Whenever the City of Waterbury identifies a blighted premises, written
notice of the violation shall be given to the owner and/or the occupant of the
property, by posting a notice of the violation in a conspicuous location at the
blighted premises, and delivering a copy of the notice of the violation to an
owner, either in hand or by mail. Said notice shall specify that the owner or
occupant has five days, from the date notice was posted and mailed, to
remediate the blighted conditions, or the City will take enforcement action.
   (C)   After the expiration of the five-day period specified in division (B)
above, the City of Waterbury, through its designated agents, may enter blighted
premises during reasonable hours for the purpose of remediating blighted
conditions, provided neither the City of Waterbury, nor its designated agents,
enter any dwelling house or structure on such property.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.65 CRIMINAL VIOLATION AND CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv)(a), any person or
entity who, after written notice and a reasonable opportunity to remediate
blighted conditions as specified in §
150.64(B) of this code, willfully violates §
150.64(A) of this code, may be fined by the State of Connecticut not more than
$250 for each day for which it can be shown, based upon an actual inspection of
the property on each such day, the blighted conditions continued to exist after
written notice to the owner or occupant, as provided in §
150.64(B) of this code. This section is designated as a violation pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-27.
      (1)   No person or entity shall be both found guilty of a violation
pursuant to division (A) above, and assessed a civil penalty pursuant to
division (A) above, for the same occurrence.
      (2)   Any person who is a new owner or occupant shall, upon request, be
granted a 30-day extension of the notice and opportunity to remediate, provided
pursuant to §
150.64(B) of this code, prior to imposition of a fine; if the blight is
remediated during said extension, the case shall be dismissed. For purposes of
this section, NEW OWNER means any person or entity who has taken title to a
property within 30 days of the notice, and NEW OCCUPANT means any person who
has taken occupancy of a property within 30 days of the notice.
   (B)   Any person or entity who fails to comply with §
150.64(A) of this code, and, thereafter, fails to remediate the blighted
conditions within five days of the notice provided pursuant to §
150.64(B) of this code may be assessed a civil penalty for each building,
structure or parcel of land in violation of §
150.64(A) of this code. The amount of the civil penalty shall be as set forth
in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, but in no event shall the civil penalty exceed the maximum
amount provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv). Each day a building,
structure or parcel of land remains in violation of §
150.64(A) of this code shall constitute grounds for the assessment of a
separate civil penalty. The issuing officer shall deliver notice of the civil
penalty, either in hand or by mail, to the owner or occupant responsible for
the blighted premises.
      (1)   Penalties assessed pursuant to division (B) above shall be
enforceable by citation pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c.
      (2)   Persons or entities assessed a penalty pursuant to division (B)
above shall remit fines for said violation within 30 days of the mailing of
notice thereof. The fine imposed shall be payable to the City of Waterbury.
Uncontested payments received pursuant to this division shall be inadmissible
in any proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of the person or
entity making the payment.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.66 BLIGHT CIVIL PENALTY CITATION HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Administrative appeal procedure.
      (1)   Appointment of Citation Hearing Officers. The mayor shall appoint
one or more Citation Hearing Officers. The Citation Hearing Officers shall not
be employees of municipal departments that issue citations pursuant to §§
150.60 to
150.66, nor shall they be police officers.
      (2)   Notice.
         (a)   At any time within 12 months from the expiration of the period
for the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees for citations
issued pursuant to §
150.65(B) of this code, the city shall send notice to the person cited.
         (b)   The notice shall inform the person or entity cited:
            1.   Of the allegations against him or it, and the amount of the
fines, penalties, costs or fees due;
            2.   That he or it may contest his or its liability before a
Citation Hearing Officer by delivering in person, or by mail, written notice
within ten days of the date thereof;
            3.   That if he or it does not demand such a hearing, an assessment
and judgment shall be entered against him or it; and
            4.   That the judgment may issue without further notice.
      (3)   Rights of the respondent.
         (a)   Admission of liability. If the person or entity who is sent
notice pursuant to division (A)(2) above wishes to admit liability for any
alleged violation, he or it may, without requesting a hearing, pay the full
amount of the fines, penalties, costs or fees admitted to in person or by mail
to the Citation Hearing Officer. The payment shall be inadmissible in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of the person or entity
making the payment.
         (b)   Constructive admission of liability. Any person or entity who
fails to deliver or mail written demand for a hearing within ten days of the
date of the first notice provided for in division (A)(2) above shall be deemed
to have admitted liability, and the Citation Hearing Officer shall certify the
person or entity's failure to respond to the Citation Hearing Officer. The
Citation Hearing Officer shall thereupon enter and assess the fines, penalties,
costs or fees provided for by §
150.65 of this code, and shall follow the procedures set forth in division (C)
of this section.
      (4)   Right to hearing. Any person or entity who requests a hearing shall
be given written notice of the date, time and place for the hearing. The
hearing shall be held not less than 15 days, nor more than 30 days, from the
date of the mailing of notice, provided, the Citation Hearing Officer may
grant, upon good cause shown, any reasonable request by any interested party
for continuance.
   (B)   Formal hearing appeal procedure.
      (1)   Power of the Citation Hearing Officer. The Citation Hearing Officer
is empowered to hear appeals from the issuance of citations or violations of
this chapter.
      (2)   Initial notice of violation deemed a business record. An original
or certified copy of the initial notice of violation issued by the issuing
official or police officer shall be filed and retained by the city and shall be
deemed to be a business record pursuant to the Hearsay Rule, the Code of
Evidence and the General Statutes.
      (3)   Presence of issuing official or police officer. The presence of the
issuing official or police officer shall be required at the hearing if the
respondent so requests in his or its written demand for a hearing.
      (4)   Appearance of respondent required. A person wishing to contest his
liability shall appear at the hearing and may present evidence in his behalf.
An entity wishing to contest liability may appear either through its attorney,
or through an officer of the entity, provided said officer provides a
resolution of the entity authorizing the officer to bind the entity.
         (a)   Failure to appear. If the person or entity fails to appear, the
Citation Hearing Officer may enter an assessment by default against him or it
upon a finding of proper notice and liability under §
150.65 of this code.
         (b)   Exception. The Citation Hearing Officer may accept from the
person or entity copies of police reports, investigatory and citation reports,
and other official documents by mail, and may determine thereby that the
appearance of the person or entity is unnecessary.
      (5)   Presentation of city's evidence. A designated municipal official,
other than the Citation Hearing Officer, may present evidence on behalf of the
City of Waterbury.
      (6)   Conduct of hearing. The Citation Hearing Officer shall conduct the
hearing in the order and form, and with such methods of proof as he or she
deems fair and appropriate. The Code of Evidence shall not be strictly applied,
but all testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
      (7)   Announcement of decision. The Citation Hearing Officer shall
announce his or her decision at the end of the hearing.
         (a)   Dismissal. If the Citation Hearing Officer determines that the
respondent is not liable, the Citation Hearing Officer shall dismiss the
matter, and enter the determination in writing.
         (b)   Finding of liability: assessment. If the Citation Hearing
Officer determines that the respondent is liable for the violation, the
Citation Hearing Officer shall enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or
fees against the respondent, as provided by §
150.65 (B) of this code.
   (C)   Notice of assessment; effect.
      (1)   Notice of assessment. If the assessment is not paid on the date of
its entry, the Citation Hearing Officer shall send, by first class mail, a
notice of the assessment to the respondent found liable.
      (2)   Filing certified copy of notice of assessment with the clerk of the
Superior Court; record of assessment. Not less than 30 days, but not more than
12 months, after the mailing, as set forth in division (C) (1) above, the
Citation Hearing Officer shall file a certified copy of the notice of
assessment with the clerk of a Superior Court designated by the Chief Court
Administrator (as of the date of adoption hereof, the Waterbury judicial
district civil courthouse), together with the appropriate entry fee. The
certified copy of the notice of assessment shall constitute a record of
assessment. Within the 12-month period, assessments against the same person may
be accrued and filed as one record of assessment.
         (a)   Entry of judgment. The court clerk shall enter judgment in the
amount of the record of assessment, and court costs, allowed by the General
Statutes, in favor of the city.
         (b)   Effect of judgment; levy of execution permitted. Notwithstanding
any provision of the General Statutes, the Citation Hearing Officer's
assessment, when so entered as a judgment, shall have effect of a civil money
judgment, and a levy of execution on the judgment may issue without further
notice, to the respondent.
   (D)   Right to judicial review. A respondent against whom an assessment has
been entered pursuant to division (C) above is entitled to judicial review by
way of de novo appeal. An appeal shall be instituted within 30 days of the
notice of the assessment, by filing a petition to reopen assessment, together
with an entry fee in an amount equal to the entry fee for a small claims case,
as set forth in the General Statutes, at a Superior Court facility designated
by the Chief Court Administrator (as of the date of adoption hereof, the
Waterbury judicial district civil courthouse), which shall entitle the
respondent to a hearing in accordance with the rules of the judges of the
Superior Court. At the judicial hearing, the City of Waterbury bears the burden
of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence, to establish the respondent's
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2012; Ord. passed 9-23-2013)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be punished by a fine as set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. Each day any violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1967 Code, § 1-8)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
150.18 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as set forth for each offense
in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The Building Official is empowered to reduce the fine to
the amount set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards
attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code if, in his opinion, the failure to obtain the necessary
permit was caused by inadvertence of the person required to obtain the permit.
Any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal in writing within five days
to the Building Board of Appeals.
(1967 Code, § 5-8.1)
(Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. passed 2-23-1993; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 151: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Application of regulations; exemptions
   
151.04   Compliance required
   
151.05   Enforcement
   
151.06   Electrical Inspector
   
151.07   Installation standards
   
151.08   Standards for electrical equipment
   
151.09   Removal of unused electrical equipment
   
151.10   Work to be performed under supervision of master electrician
   
151.11   Disclaimer of liability of city
   
151.12   Permit required; fees
   
151.13   Annual permits
   
151.14   Inspections
   
151.15   Work not to be concealed prior to inspection
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM. All material, devices or appliances necessary or
convenient in the conduction, safe-guarding or use of electrical energy at a
potential of 15 volts or more.
   ELECTRICAL WIRING. The necessary materials and devices for use in the
conduction of electrical energy at a potential of 15 volts or more from a
source of supply to a point of utilization.
   ELECTRICAL WORK. Any act necessary or convenient in connection with the
installation, altering, repairing or maintaining of an electrical system, or
intended for carrying electrical energy at a potential of 15 volts or more.
   INSPECTOR. Any individual duly appointed by competent authority for
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. A person who has served at least five years as an
apprentice electrician.
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. Any person having a regular place of business in his
name, who by the employment of electricians performs the work of installing
wires, conduits, apparatus, fixtures or other appliances for carrying or using
electricity for light, heat or power, at a potential of 15 volts or more.
(1967 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate the construction of buildings, see Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-148
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to safeguard persons and property and
promote the welfare of the public; to establish the office of Electrical
Inspector and prescribe his duties, rights and authority; to establish
standards for electrical equipment and its installation, and require conformity
therewith; to make it unlawful to undertake the installation of electrical
equipment without a permit therefor, except as otherwise provided; and to
provide penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter shall apply to all electrical wiring and
equipment installed or used in the city, except that they shall not apply to
any wiring or equipment which is installed by, or for, and used and maintained
by, a public service company, as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 16-1, and except
that they shall not apply to persons employed by a public service company while
working on, or with, any wiring or equipment of the public service company. In
addition, electrical wiring and equipment in federal buildings are exempt from
the requirements of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-3) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.04 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Every person installing, arranging, altering, reconstructing, repairing or
maintaining any electrical wiring, conductor, device, appliance, apparatus or
equipment shall comply with every provision of this chapter, and shall be
responsible for compliance therewith by his agents, servants and employees
except for the exemptions as are provided by §
151.03 of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-4) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Aldermen and the Electrical Inspector
of the city to administer and enforce all provisions and requirements of this
chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-5) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.06 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector or his assistants or deputies shall have the
right during reasonable hours to enter any building or premises in the
discharge of his duties, or for the purpose of making any inspection,
reinspection or test of the electrical equipment contained therein or its
installation, except as to areas which are involved in the production of
confidential devices for the United States government, and for such areas, the
Inspector will first obtain proper authority from the bureau involved to enter
the confidential area before making his inspection.
   (B)   When any electrical equipment is found by the Electrical Inspector to
be dangerous to persons or property because it is defective, or defectively
installed, the person responsible for the electrical equipment shall be
notified, and shall make any changes or repairs required, in the judgment of
the Electrical Inspector, to place the equipment in safe condition, and if the
work is not completed within 15 days or any longer period that may be specified
by the Electrical Inspector in the notice, the Electrical Inspector shall have
the authority to disconnect or order the discontinuance of electric service to
the electrical equipment. In cases of emergency where necessary for safety to
persons or property, or where electrical equipment may interfere with the work
of the Fire Department, the Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to
immediately disconnect or cause the disconnection of electrical equipment.
   (C)   The Electrical Inspector may delegate his powers or duties to any of
his assistants or deputies to enforce any and all sections of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-6)
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. He may, upon application, grant permits for the
installation or alteration of electrical equipment, and he shall make
inspections of electrical installations, all as provided in this chapter. He
shall keep complete records of all permits issued, inspections and
reinspections made and other official work performed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-7)
   (E)   Personnel of the Electrical Inspector's office shall from time to time
inspect buildings, homes and other premises in the city in order to locate and
secure the correction of all conditions which constitute potential fire
hazards.
(1967 Code, § 6-8)
   (F)   The Electrical Inspector's office shall be equipped with the apparatus
and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its
efficiency and properly protect and safeguard life and property.
(1967 Code, § 6-10)
(Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.07 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by the authority thereof and with the approved
electrical standards for the safety to persons and property.
(1967 Code, § 6-11)
   (B)   All power supply equipment (batteries, battery chargers, rectifiers,
switching, factories, transformers, voltage regulators and the like) and wiring
shall be installed in conformity with the requirements of the National
Electrical Code, 1965 edition, for such equipment except as otherwise permitted
by the Electrical Inspector's office.
(1967 Code, § 6-12)
(Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 STANDARDS FOR ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, the state statutes and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof, and shall be in conformity with
approved electrical standards for safety to persons and property, unless, by
this chapter, by statute of the state, or by any orders, rules and regulations
issued by authority thereof, a specific type or class of electrical equipment
is disapproved for installation and use. Conformity with the standards of
Underwriters Laboratories, Incorporated, shall be prima facie evidence of
conformity with approved standards for safety to persons and property.
   (B)   All installation of electric wiring within the city shall be made in
metal conduit or armored cable; provided, however, that, in cases in which the
Electrical Inspector is of the opinion that no danger to persons or property
will result, he may by special permission authorize other approved methods of
wiring.
(1967 Code, § 6-13) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 REMOVAL OF UNUSED ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   All obsolete and unused conduits, wire or apparatus shall be removed from
buildings.
(1967 Code, § 6-14) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 WORK TO BE PERFORMED UNDER SUPERVISION OF MASTER ELECTRICIAN.
   No electrical work involving the construction or repair of electrical
systems shall be performed except by or under the direction of a master
electrician who has a license from the state.
(1967 Code, § 6-15) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY OF CITY.
   (A)   Neither the city, nor any department thereof, nor any board, shall be
responsible for any damage or injury to the person, building, structure,
premises or property of any person or to any electric wiring, conductor,
device, appliance, apparatus or equipment whether caused by, resulting from or
arising out of any inspection or approval of any such electrical work or
equipment, or the issuance of any certificate of inspection made, rendered or
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any inspection or approval or certificate thereof made, rendered or
issued hereunder, is made, rendered or issued solely to foster and secure, in
favor of the city compliance by other persons with the provisions of this
chapter, and the fact of the inspection, approval or issuance of certificate is
hereby expressly declared not to be, and not to be deemed, a warranty or
assurance to, or on behalf of, any other person or body, public or private.
(1967 Code, § 6-16) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.12 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No electrical system or electric wiring shall be installed or repaired
within or on any building or structure, nor shall any alteration or addition be
made to any such existing system before a permit therefor shall first be
secured from the Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   Application for the permit, describing the work to be done, shall be
made in writing to the Electrical Inspector by a person holding an electrical
license from the state and proposing to install the work. The application shall
be accompanied by the plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary
to determine whether the installation described will be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter. If it shall be found that the installation as
described will conform with all legal requirements, and if the applicant has
complied with all provisions of this chapter, and if the applicant is a
licensed electrician, a permit for the installation shall be issued upon
payment of the required fee.
(1967 Code, § 6-17)
   (C)   Before any permit required by this chapter is issued, the person
desiring the permit shall make an application therefore to the Electrical
Department on a form furnished by the Department. Every application shall give
the location, by street and house number, or by other approved description,
where the proposed electric wiring is to be done or installed, and shall also
give the correct name of the persons for whom and by whom the work is to be
done.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to
require the Electrical Department to immediately accept or reject any
application.
(1967 Code, § 6-18)
   (E)   The fees for permits and inspections, based on the actual cost of
inspection, shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to
the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code. In addition thereto, the Board of Aldermen shall set fees
for the installment of fixtures and a monthly charge for all repair work.
(1967 Code, § 6-19)
(Ord. passed 11-14-1966; Ord. passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 ANNUAL PERMITS.
   (A)   In lieu of an individual permit for each installation or alteration,
an annual permit shall, upon application therefor, be issued to any person
regularly employing one or more electricians for the installation, alteration
and maintenance of electrical equipment in or on buildings or premises owned
and occupied by the applicant for the permit. The application for this annual
permit shall be made to the Electrical Inspector and shall contain a
description of the premises on which work is to be done under the permit.
   (B)   Before an annual permit is issued to any person, the qualifications of
the individual under whose supervision the work is to be done will be submitted
to the Electrical Inspector. The Inspector will review the qualifications of
the individual and, if he deems it desirable, require the individual to submit
himself for examination as the Inspector requires. Minimum qualifications for
master electricians shall be complied with under P.A. 493 of the General
Statutes, Special Session, February, 1965, pertaining to licenses issued by the
state.
   (C)   The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a record of
all electrical equipment installed under the permit and the Electrical
Inspector shall have access to the records.
   (D)   Each annual permit shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it
was issued.
   (E)   Any person having an annual permit shall be required to abide by the
existing schedule of fees in §
151.12 when the cost of the work exceeds $1,000.
(1967 Code, § 6-20)
   (F)   Upon acceptance of the person under whom supervision of electrical
work will be done under an annual permit, an annual permit will be issued to
the person upon payment of the required fees for electrical work to be done on
the property owned and occupied by the holder of the permit. The foregoing
exemptions for permit requirements shall not be deemed to permit or allow any
electric wiring to be done in a manner contrary to other provisions of this
chapter.
(1967 Code, § 6-21)
   (G)   A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of this code shall be paid for each annual permit at the time the permit
is issued.
(1967 Code, § 6-22)
(Ord. passed 11-14-1966; Ord. passed 8-19-2013) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any electric wiring or installation or portion thereof is
ready for inspection a request for the inspection shall be made to the
Electrical Inspector, giving him the number of the electrical permit and any
other information necessary to identify the work being performed.
   (B)   Every request for an inspection shall be made by the person to whom
the permit was issued.
   (C)   Every notice for inspection shall be filed not less than one day and
not more than three days before (Sundays and holidays excepted) the day on
which any such inspection is desired.
   (D)   Where the Electrical Inspector finds the installation to be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, he shall issue to the person
making the installation a certificate of approval, with duplicate copy for
delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the installation and connection
to the supply of electricity.
   (E)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall be issued at a time
to be stated therein and shall be revocable by the Electrical Inspector for
cause.
(1967 Code, § 6-23) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
§ 151.15 WORK NOT TO BE CONCEALED PRIOR TO INSPECTION.
   (A)   Concealment. No person shall conceal, enclose or cover, or cause or
permit to be concealed, enclosed or covered, any portion of any electric wiring
in any manner which will interfere with or prevent the inspection and approval
thereof.
   (B)   Inspection obstructed. Any portion of any floor, ceiling, wall
partition, roof, finish or other obstruction whatsoever, which renders
impracticable the making of a complete and thorough inspection of electric
wiring shall be removed upon notice (either verbal or in writing) and shall be
kept removed until the electric wiring has been inspected and approved by the
Department.
   (C)   Final inspection. Before final inspection of any electric wiring all
plaster, concrete or other foreign material shall be thoroughly removed from
every box and wiring enclosure, and not less than six inches of jointless
conductor shall extend out of each light and switch or receptacle outlet box
for future connection thereto, except when conductors are intended to loop
through the outlet.
   (D)   Taped joints; unsoldered. In any case where one or more taped joints
are found not soldered at the time of inspection, the Inspector may require
every joint for the electric wiring to be left untaped until the inspection and
approval thereof.
   (E)   Approval required prior to connection. Fixtures or appliances shall
not be connected to electric wiring until the rough wiring has been inspected
and approved.
   (F)   Wiring to be free of shorts and the like. Prior to approval, all
wiring shall be free from grounds, shorts or other defects.
   (G)   Splices. All splices shall be made at every switch, receptacle and
light outlets as the work progresses, to facilitate inspection.
   (H)   Large installations. On large installations where the concealment of
equipment proceeds continuously, the person installing the electrical equipment
shall give the Electrical Inspector due notice, and inspections shall be made
periodically during the progress of the work.
   (I)   Compliance; notice of approval. Whenever any electric wiring has been
inspected and found to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
Inspector shall leave a notice at the service switch or other suitable place.
   (J)   Obstruction prohibited. It shall be unlawful to place any obstruction
within four feet of any meter equipment or panels so as to hamper the testing
of meter equipment or panels.
   (K)   Oil burner. Every emergency oil burner disconnect switch shall be two
poles and shall disconnect both the live leg and the ground leg of the circuit,
ahead of the oil burner.
   (L)   Certificate of approval. If work is found to be in conformance with
provisions of this chapter, the Electrical Inspector shall issue a certificate
of approval for the work. If, upon inspection, the installation is found not to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the Electrical
Inspector shall at once forward to the person making the installation an oral
or written notice stating the defects which have been found to exist. When the
defects are corrected in conformance with this chapter, the Inspector shall
issue a certificate of approval.
(1967 Code, § 6-24) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with, or resists or opposes the execution of, or violates any of the provisions
of, or who owns or maintains any building or structure in which the electrical
wiring and appliances are in violation of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. So much of any electrical installation as may be erected or altered in
violation of this chapter shall be condemned and removed at the expense of the
person erecting or altering the same.
(1967 Code, § 6-25) (Ord. passed 11-14-1966)
CHAPTER 152: ENTERPRISE ZONE
Section
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Findings and declaration
   
152.03   Area designated
   
152.04   Administration
   
152.05   Fixing of assessments
   
152.06   Local tax exemptions
   
152.07   Assessment deferral period; certificate of occupancy
   
152.08   Additional abatements or deferrals
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the "Enterprise Zone Ordinance of the City of
Waterbury".
(1967 Code, § 21-21) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS AND DECLARATION.
   It is found and declared by the Board of Aldermen that it is in the best
interest of the people of this city and to the economic well being of this city
to promote the economic development and rehabilitation of certain depressed
areas in the city known herein as an enterprise zone of the city; that this
city is empowered under the provisions of the Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 32-70 et seq.
to establish enterprise zones with the benefits and inducements to private
enterprise flowing therefrom; that on September 22, 2008, the Commissioner of
Economic and Community Development of the State of Connecticut, in accordance
with state law, approved and designated the enterprise zone as suggested and
recommended by the Mayor, that it is logical and economically sound to
designate such an enterprise zone in the city and it is further declared that
the area as designated herein meets the criteria for enterprise zones as set
forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 32-70 et seq.
(1967 Code, § 21-22) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 152.03 AREA DESIGNATED.
   The enterprise zone of the city shall be the area comprised of the two areas
designated as the "Existing Enterprise Zone" and "Census Tract 3501 Enterprise
Zone Expansion" as shown and defined on the map entitled "City of Waterbury
Enterprise Zone Boundary Addition Map" dated September 22, 2008 originally
prepared by City of Waterbury, Department of Public Works, Bureau of
Engineering, GIS Division on June 5, 2008 and approved by the Connecticut
Commissioner of Economic and Community Development and on file at the office of
the City Clerk and at the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community
Development; however, in the case of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development awarding the city a federal enterprise zone, then the roles and
benefits established by the Board of Aldermen pertaining to this enterprise
zone shall become applicable to not only the enterprise zone as herein defined,
but to any additional areas which may at any time, and from time to time become
an additional part of the enterprise zone if, or as required by any state or
federal statute or regulation required to be met in order to gain such a
federal enterprise zone designation for the city.
(1967 Code, § 21-23) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 152.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Chief Executive Officer of the Waterbury Development Corporation is
hereby authorized and empowered to:
   (A)   Administer the provisions of this chapter in a manner consistent with
the provisions of the Charter, applicable state laws and regulations.
   (B)   To enter into contracts, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.05 with appropriate parties for the fixing of tax assessments on the
improvements to qualifying properties in keeping with the intent of the
relevant state statutes and this chapter.
   (C)   To request, petition, and appeal to local governing bodies, to the
State of Connecticut and to the United States government for the suspension or
waiver of local, state, and federal regulations or rules affecting residents or
enterprises located within the enterprise zone when such Chief Executive
Officer determines that such suspension or waiver is consistent with intent of
state law and this chapter.
   (D)   To enter into contracts with appropriate third party agencies,
nonprofit developers, and consultants and to engage employees and agents and
enter into interagency agreements for the efficient and timely prosecution of
the intent of this enactment.
(1967 Code, § 21-24) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 152.05 FIXING OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Upon designation by the city and the State Department of Economic and
Community Development, or if appropriate, the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, of an urban enterprise zone, this section hereby provides
for the fixing of assessments on all real, and for commercial and industrial
properties, personal property located within the zone which is improved during
the period such area is designated an enterprise zone. Such fixed assessments
shall be for a period of seven years from the time of such improvement and
shall defer any increase in assessment attributable to such improvements
according to the following schedule:
Year Percentage of Increase Deferred
Year Percentage of Increase Deferred
1    100
2    100
3    50
4    40
5    30
6    20
7    10
 
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT shall be defined
as physical expansion, or renovation, or the purchase or placement of taxable
personal property, or any combination of both, which, in the aggregate,
represents a sum equal to or greater than 50% of the total assessed value of
the real property prior to such improvement. The city does, however reserve the
right to waive or decrease the 50% criteria, upon the recommendation of the
Chief Executive Officer of the Waterbury Development Corporation, and with the
approval of the Board of Aldermen of the city.
   (C)   Any fixed assessment on any residential property shall cease if:
      (1)   For any residential rental property, any dwelling unit in such
property is rented to any person whose income exceeds 200% of the median family
income of the city.
      (2)   For any conversion condominium declared after the designation of
the enterprise zone, any unit is sold to any person whose income exceeds 200%
of the median family income of the city.
   (D)   In the event of a general revaluation of the city in the year in which
such improvement is completed, resulting in any increase in the assessment on
such property, only that portion of the increase resulting from such
improvement shall be deferred. In the event of a general revaluation in any
year after the year in which such improvement is completed, such deferred
assessment shall be increased or decreased in proportion to the increase or
decrease in the total assessment on such property as a result of such
revaluation.
   (E)   Failure of a residential property owner to maintain the property in
accordance with the Housing Code,
Chapter 154, shall also constitute reason to cease deferral of assessment under
this section. Additionally, any residential rehabilitation will be required to
address and eliminate any known violations existing at or on the entire
property of which such rehabilitation is a part, if any, of the health, fire
and codes of the city, as verified through on-site inspections, in order to
qualify for any assessment deferrals contained herein.
   (F)   No improvements of any real property which qualifies as a
manufacturing facility under Conn. Gen Stat. § 32-9p(d) shall be eligible for
any fixed assessment pursuant to this section.
(1967 Code, § 21-25) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 152.06 LOCAL TAX EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   For those real properties which qualify as a "manufacturing facility"
under Conn. Gen Stat. § 32-9p(d), as a local tax exemption on real and personal
property which is construed or substantially renovated or expanded during the
period the enterprise zone designation is in place is provided for under the
general statutes. The amount of the exemption shall be for 80% for a five-year
period, as mandated by Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 12-81(59) and 12-81(60).
   (B)   Any and all tax revenue that the city would have received from each
eligible manufacturing facility except for the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat.
§§ 12-81(59) and 12-81(60) and which is not reimbursed to the city by the state
pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 32-9s shall be waived by the city for the five-
year exemption period, subject to annual recertification of the manufacturing
facility.
   (C)   All nonresidential properties will initially be analyzed for
eligibility of benefits as manufacturing facility under this section. If
determined to be noneligible under this section, such properties will then be
evaluated for benefits according to the procedure identified in division (E) of
this section. In all cases, eligibility will be determined on the basis of the
use, or proposed use of the property. Changes in the use of a property
subsequent to the approval of benefits, or changes in the ownership or tenancy
of a property which is inconsistent with the purpose or intent of this chapter
may, at the sole discretion of the city, result in a suspension or revocation
of benefits.
   (D)   For local tax exemptions on manufacturing and service center
facilities located in the enterprise zone:
      (1)   All property owners will be required, in order to qualify for a
property tax exemption, to file with the Waterbury Development Corporation, an
application on a form provided by the Waterbury Development Corporation.
Continued eligibility shall be subject to annual recertification of the
manufacturing facility.
      (2)   Eligibility for the exemption shall be determined by the Waterbury
Development Corporation and the Department of Economic and Community
Development, and will be evidenced by issuance of a certificate of eligibility.
      (3)   All rehabilitation and new construction for which a certificate of
eligibility has been issued must be made pursuant to a building permit issued
subsequent to date of announcement of formation of the enterprise zone, subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   The certificate of eligibility shall be presented to the Tax
Assessor's office no later than 30 days following establishment of the October
1 Grand List, to be eligible for the exemption during that tax year.
      (5)   Failure to file such certificate of eligibility in this manner
within the time limit prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right to such
exemption for such assessment year.
      (6)   Failure to file such certificate of eligibility in this manner, for
two consecutive grand list years, shall constitute a permanent waiver of the
right to such exemption.
   (E)   For enterprises zone benefits for commercial and residential
properties:
      (1)   All property owners will be required, in order to qualify for
enterprise zone benefits, to file an application with the Waterbury Development
Corporation, prior to any activities being undertaken.
      (2)   Eligibility for assessment deferral shall be determined by the
Waterbury Development Corporation and will be evidenced by issuance of a
determination certificate.
      (3)   All rehabilitation and new construction for which a determination
certificate has been issued must be made pursuant to a building permit issued
subsequent to date of announcement of formation of the enterprise zone.
      (4)   The application, together with the requisite determination
certificate, must be submitted by the property owner to the Assessor's office
of the city within 30 days of the establishment of the October 1 Grand List, to
be eligible for enterprise zone benefits during that tax year.
      (5)   Owners of residential rental property or condominium conversions
must submit to the Assessor of the city, on forms provided by the Assessor,
affidavits for each rental or condominium unit giving the occupant's (rental
property) or owner's (condominium) full name and gross income in the previous
tax year. In order to maintain eligibility rental property owner must submit
income affidavits annually before September 1.
      (6)   Failure to file such determination certificate in this manner
within the time limit prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right to such
exemption for such assessment year.
      (7)   Failure to file such determination certificate in this manner for
two consecutive grand list years shall constitute a permanent waiver of the
right to such exemption.
(1967 Code, §§ 21-26, 21-27) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Exemption of real and personal property acquired by certain tax-exempt
institutions, see §
32.19
§ 152.07 ASSESSMENT DEFERRAL PERIOD; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   When construction or rehabilitation has been determined to be completed,
assessment deferral will commence the first full tax year following the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy from the Building Department. The
building owner will be responsible for obtaining a certificate of occupancy
within a reasonable time period following completion of the project. Failure to
obtain the certificate by October 1 following the completion of the project
will result in the forfeiture of that year's assessment deferral. Failure to
obtain the certificate within 12 months of completion of the project will
result in permanent forfeiture of benefits.
(1967 Code, § 21-28) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989)
§ 152.08 ADDITIONAL ABATEMENTS OR DEFERRALS.
   The city may provide any additional tax abatements or deferrals as it deems
necessary for any real property located in any such enterprise zone.
(1967 Code, § 21-29) (Ord. passed 1-10-1989)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Authority and purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Land to which provisions apply
   
153.04   Compliance required
   
153.05   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.06   Establishment of development permit
   
153.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.08   Interpretation
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.20   General standards
   
153.21   Subdivision proposals
Administration
   
153.35   Development permit
   
153.36   Application requirements
   
153.37   Administration by Building Official
   
153.38   Variance procedure
   
153.39   Appeals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Connecticut
has, in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7), delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Aldermen
of the city does ordain the provisions set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Findings.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately flood-proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to;
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;.
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazard to other
lands.
   (D)   Objective. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING BUILDING. Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A written request for a review of the Building Official’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the city subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding any given year and identified on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map by the l00-year flood boundary line.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood as recorded on the
flood insurance rate map and accompanying stream profile data.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for
occupancy or storage.
   COST. As related to substantial improvements, the cost of any
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, alteration, repair or other
improvement of a structure shall be established by a detailed written
contractor’s estimate. The estimate shall include, but not be limited to: the
cost of materials (interior finishing elements, structural elements, utility
and service equipment); sales tax on materials, building equipment and
fixtures, including heating and air conditioning and utility meters; labor;
built-in appliances; demolition and site preparation; repairs made to damaged
parts of the building worked on at the same time; contractor’s overhead;
contractor’s profit; and grand total. Items to be excluded include: cost of
plans and specifications, survey costs, permit fees, outside improvements such
as septic systems, water supply wells, landscaping, sidewalks, fences, yard
lights, irrigation systems, and detached structures such as garages, sheds, and
gazebos.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction of buildings or structures; the
construction of additions, alterations to substantial improvements to buildings
or structures; the placement of buildings or structures; mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment; the storage, deposition, or extraction of materials; and the
installation, repair or removal of public or private sewage disposal systems or
water supply facilities located within the area of special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured home are to be affixed (including, as a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before November 1, 1979,
the effective date of the floodplain management ordinance adopted by the
community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency that
administers the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   FINISHED LIVING SPACE. As related to fully enclosed areas below the base
flood elevation (BFE), a space that is, but is not limited to, heated and/or
cooled, contains finished floors (toile, linoleum, hardwood, (and the like),
has sheetrock walls that may or may not be painted or wallpapered, and other
amenities such as furniture, appliances, bathrooms, fireplaces and other items
that are easily damaged by floodwaters and expensive to clean, repair or
replace.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal water; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The high risk channel area of a watercourse and adjacent land area
that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing water
surface elevations more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), for example, top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of
wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor
of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDANT USE OR FACILITY. A use or facility that cannot
perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close
proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities
that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and
ship building and ship repair facilities. The term does not include seafood
processing facilities, long-term storage, manufacturing, sales or service
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term MANUFACTURED HOME includes park trailers, travel
trailers, recreational vehicles, and other similar vehicles placed on a site
for greater than 180 consecutive days and intended to be improved property.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The market value of the structure shall be determined by the
appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or
improvement, or in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the
damage occurring.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum to which base
flood elevations shown on the community’s (City of Waterbury) flood insurance
rate map are referenced.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929 is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plan.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commences
on or after the effective date of this chapter (November 1, 1979), and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of street, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after November 1,
1979, the effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by the
community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement, and means the date building permit was
issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on the site, such as pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading or filling; nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages, or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a mobile home or a gas or liquid
storage tank, that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or
improvements to a structure, taking place during the life of a structure (a
one-year period) in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure, for example:
         (a)   The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the
initial repair or improvement; or
         (b)   In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the
damage occurring.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include any project for improvement of a structure required to comply with
existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. A structure or other
development without required permits, lowest floor elevation documentation,
flood-proofing certificates or required floodway encroachment calculations is
resumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.03 LAND TO WHICH PROVISIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
City of Waterbury as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) in is Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for New Haven County, Connecticut,
dated December 17, 2010, accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), dated
December 17, 2010, and other supporting data applicable to the City of
Waterbury, and any subsequent revisions thereto, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. Since mapping is legally adopted by
reference into this chapter it must take precedence when more restrictive until
such time as a map amendment or map revision is obtained from FEMA The area of
special flood hazard includes any area shown on the FIRM as Zones A and AE,
including areas designated as a floodway on a FIRM, Areas of special flood
hazard are determined utilizing the base flood elevations (BFE) provided on the
flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for a community. BFEs
provided on Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are only approximate (rounded up or
down) and should be verified with the BFEs published in the FIS for a specific
location. A copy of the FIS and FIRM shall be on file in the Inspection
Department, 26 Kendrick Avenue, Waterbury, Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.04 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Within the area of special flood hazard, no structure shall be located,
constructed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, moved or structurally altered,
no land use shall be established, and no land shall be filled, graded or
excavated without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Because larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions,
flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages.
      (2)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city,
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result in reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, when this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Literally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.20 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements including the
placement of manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings in the floodplain
district shall be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, and shall be constructed of
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage and using methods and
practices that minimize flood damages.
   (B)   New and replacement water systems shall be designed to minimize
infiltration of floodwaters. New and replacement sanitary systems shall be
designed to minimize infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters. On-site sanitary disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood elevation.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any nonresidential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood elevation, or in lieu of being elevated, nonresidential
structures may be dry flood-proofed to or above the base flood elevation
provided that together with all attendant utilities and sanitary facilities the
areas of the structure below the required elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and provided that such
structures are composed of structural components have the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall review and/or develop
structural design specifications and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
acceptable standards of practice for meeting the provisions this section.
Electrical, plumbing, machinery or other utility equipment that service the
structure must be elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   (E)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must
meet or exceed the following criteria; a minimum of two openings having a total
net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be protected. The bottom of all openings shall
be no higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers or other coverings or devices provided that they permit automatic entry
and exist of floodwaters. The enclosed area cannot be used as finished living
space. Use of the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary and shall only
be used for the parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes (including mobile homes placed on a site for
180 consecutive days or longer) to be placed, or substantially improved shall
be elevated so that the lowest floor is above the base flood elevation. This
includes all manufactured homes located outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood.
      (2)   It shall be placed on a permanent foundation which itself is
securely anchored so that it will resist flotation, lateral movement, and
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic pressures. Anchoring may include, but not be
limited to, the use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (3)   It shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize
flood damage:
         (a)   Adequate access and drainage should be provided; and
         (b)   Elevation construction standards includes piling foundations
placed no more than ten feet apart, and reinforcement is provided for piers
more than six feet above ground level.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within an area of special
flood hazard shall either be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
and be fully licensed and ready for highway use or meet all the general
standards of §
153.20 and the elevation and anchoring requirement of §
153.20(F)(1), (2) and (3). A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (G)   No encroachment including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development shall be permitted in a floodway unless
certification, with supporting technical data, by a registered professional
engineer demonstrates, through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice, that the encroachment will not
result in any (0.00 feet) increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge. Fences in the floodway must be aligned with the flow and be of an
open design. All other standards of this chapter must also be satisfied.
   (H)   For development proposals in unnumbered A Zones, where base flood
elevation data has not been provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), the Building Official shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation date available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer the requirements of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
The Building Official may request floodway data of an applicant for
watercourses without FEMA-published floodways. When such data is provided by an
applicant or whenever such data is available from any other source (in response
to the municipality’s request or not), the community shall adopt a regulatory
floodway based on the principle that the floodway must be able to convey the
waters of the base flood without increasing the water surface elevation more
than one (1.0) foot at any point within the community. When BFEs have been
determined within Zones A and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map
but a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Building Official must
require that no new construction, substantial improvements repair to structures
which have sustained substantial damage or other development, including fill,
shall be permitted which will increase the water surface elevation of the base
flood more than one (1.0) foot at any point within the community when all
existing and anticipated development is considered cumulatively with the
proposed development.
   (I)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of floodings.
   (J)   A structure already in compliance with the provisions of this chapter
shall not be made noncompliant by any alteration, repair, reconstruction or
improvement of the structure.
   (K)   Compensatory storage. The water holding capacity of the floodplain,
except those areas which are tidally influenced, shall not be reduced. Any
reduction caused by filling, new construction or substantial improvements
involving an increase in footprint to the structure, shall be compensated for
by deepening and/or widening of the floodplain. Storage shall be provided on-
site, unless easements have been gained from adjacent property owners; it shall
be provided within the same hydraulic reach and a volume not previously used
for flood storage; it shall be hydraulically comparable and incrementally equal
to the theoretical volume of flood water at each elevation, up to and including
the 100-year flood elevation, which would be displaced by the proposed project.
Such compensatory volume shall have an unrestricted hydraulic connection to the
same waterway or water body. Compensatory storage can be provided off-site if
approved by the municipality.
   (L)   Equal conveyance. Within the floodplain, except those areas which are
tidally influenced, as designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for
the community, encroachments resulting from filling, new construction or
substantial improvements involving an increase in footprint of the structure,
are prohibited unless the applicant provides certification by a registered
professional engineer demonstrating, with supporting hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice, that such
encroachments shall not result in any (0.00 feet) increase in flood levels
(base flood elevation). Work within the floodplain and the land adjacent to the
floodplain, including work to provide compensatory storage shall not be
constructed in such a way so as to cause an increase in flood state or flood
velocity.
   (M)   Above-ground storage tanks. Above-ground storage tanks (oil, propane,
and the like) which are located outside or inside of the structure must either
be elevated above the base flood elevation (BFE) on a concrete pad; or be
securely anchored with tie-down straps to prevent flotation or lateral
movement, have the top of the fill pipe extended above the BFE, and have a
screw fill cap that does not allow for the infiltration of flood water.
   (N)   Portion of structure in flood zone. If any portion of a structure lies
within the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA), the entire structure is considered
to be in the SFHA. The entire structure must meet the construction requirements
of the flood zone. The structure includes any attached additions, garages,
decks, sunrooms, or any other structure attached to the main structure. Decks
or porches that extend into a more restrictive flood zone will require the
entire structure to meet the standards of the more restrictive zone.
   (O)   Structures in two flood zones. If a structure lies within two or more
flood zones, the construction standards of the most restrictive zone apply to
the entire structure (i.e., V zone is more restrictive than A zone; structure
must be built to the highest BFE). The structure includes any attached
additions, garages, decks, sunrooms, or any other structure attached to the
main structure. (Decks or porches that extend into a more restrictive zone will
require the entire structure to meet the requirements of the more restrictive
zone.)
   (P)   No structures entirely or partially over water. New construction,
substantial improvements and repair to structures that have sustained
substantial damage cannot be constructed or located entirely or partially over
water unless it is a functionally dependent use or facility.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as gas, sewer, electrical and water systems located and constructed in
compliance with §
153.20(I).
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for all subdivision
proposals of 50 lots or five acres whichever is less whether or not the data is
available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The required detail and
accuracy of base flood elevation data developed by the discretion of the
Building Official who shall take into consideration the size and complexity of
the development and amount of land subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.35 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Building Official and shall include, but be not limited to, three black
and white prints of a plot plan of the premises, drawn to scale and certified
by a licensed land surveyor or civil engineer, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot, the size and location of all existing and proposed
structures and land uses, the layout of parking and loading facilities, the
location of outdoor storage areas, existing and proposed grades, the location
of existing and proposed drainage facilities and utilities, base flood
elevation data and limits of the floodplain area.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been flood-proofed;
      (3)   Where a nonresidential structure is intended to be made watertight
below the base flood level a registered professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are
in accordance with acceptable standards of practice for meeting applicable
provisions of Federal Management Agency, § 60.3(c)(4), revised effective
January 1, 1986. (Specifically, § (c)(3)(ii) or § (8)(ii)). A record of such
certificates which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structures are flood-proofed shall be maintained by the
city pursuant to §
52.22(a)(9)(iii) of the effective Federal Emergency Management Agency
provision; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 ADMINISTRATION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Permit review. The Building Official is hereby appointed to administer
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions. One copy of each approved development permit
application, the approval noted thereon, shall be filed with the Building
Official and one copy shall be provided to the applicant. No building permit or
zoning approval shall be issued which is not in conformance with the approved
development permit. The Building Official shall also review all development
permits to determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state and local governmental agencies from which prior approval is
required. The Building Official shall review all permit applications to
determine whether the proposed development and building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   Information to be obtained and maintained. The Building Official shall
obtain and maintain a record of the actual elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures. The
Building Official shall also verify and record the actual elevation and flood-
proofing certifications for all new or substantially improved flood-proofed
structures.
   (C)   Data obtained. The Building Official shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, as criteria for requiring that new
construction, substantial improvements or other development in Zone A which
meet standards set forth by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, § 60.3(c)
(2), (3), (5), (6) and (d)(3) as amended August 25, 1986.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses. The Building Official shall notify
adjacent municipalities and the Water Resources Unit of the Connecticut
Department of Environmental Protection prior to any alteration or relocation of
a watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration. The Building Official shall require that the carrying capacity
of the altered watercourse is maintained.
   (E)   Interpretation of flood hazard boundaries. The Building Official shall
make interpretations where needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of
the area of special flood hazard when, for example, there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.38 VARIANCE PROCEDURE. 
   The City of Waterbury Zoning Board of Appeals, as established by Conn. Gen.
Stat. Chapter 98 shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Official in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (B)   A Class A-2 Survey Map made by a Connecticut registered land surveyor
shall be required for any variance.
   (C)   The Board, in passing upon the applications, shall consider all
technical evaluations prepared by a registered professional engineer, all
relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter,
and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
erosion damage for the proposed purpose;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
the City of Waterbury and its flood plain management program;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Before granting a variance, the Board must make a written finding in
its minutes as part of the record in the case that all of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant a variance would result in
exceptional difficulty or unusual hardship to the owners of the property from
strict enforcement of the regulations;
      (3)   If the owner complied with the provisions of this chapter, he would
not be able to make reasonable use of his property;
      (4)   The hardship was not a result of the applicant’s own actions;
      (5)   The hardship is not merely financial or pecuniary; and
      (6)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances or impair the intent, purpose
or integrity of this chapter and of the comprehensive plan of the city.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary; considering the flood hazard, to afford relief; and
in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the variance is
the minimum necessary as not to destroy the historic character and design of
the building.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation. In some cases, the variance may result in
increased premium rates that could go as high as $25 per $100 of insurance
coverage.
   (G)   The Board shall maintain records of all appeal actions and report any
variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (H)   Any variance which is not executed within a period of six months shall
become null and void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by
the Board.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.39 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board or any person owning land
which abuts or is within a radius of 500 feet of the land in question may
appeal, within 20 days after the decision to the Superior Court for the
Judicial District of Waterbury, as provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-8.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as set forth for
both willful violations and not willful violations in the schedule of fees,
charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the city,
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code, and in addition, shall pay all costs and reasonable legal
fees involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. passed 11-29-2010; Ord. passed 8-19-2013)
CHAPTER 154: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Abatement of nuisances and lodging houses
Maintenance of Dwelling Units
   
154.015   Compliance required
   
154.016   Foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, roof
   
154.017   Windows, doors and the like
   
154.018   Stairs and porches
   
154.019   Plumbing fixtures
   
154.020   Bathroom floor surfaces
   
154.021   Rain spouts
   
154.022   Exterior wood surfaces
   
154.023   Supplied facilities
   
154.024   Services and facilities not to be shut off
   
154.025   Clean and sanitary condition
Minimum Standards for    Basic Equipment and Facilities
   
154.035   Compliance required
   
154.036   Kitchens
   
154.037   Toilets
   
154.038   Rubbish and garbage storage facilities
   
154.039   Hot water heating equipment
   
154.040   Exits
Minimum Space, Use and Location Requirements
   
154.050   Compliance required
   
154.051   Minimum floor area
   
154.052   Minimum sleeping room floor area
   
154.053   Ceiling height
   
154.054   Permit required to use cellar space as dwelling unit
   
154.055   Use of basement space
Minimum Standards for    Ventilation, Light and Heating
   
154.065   Compliance required
   
154.066   Windows and ventilation
   
154.067   Bathrooms to comply with light and ventilation requirements
   
154.068   Electrical service
   
154.069   Heating facilities
   
154.070   Lighting facilities
   
154.071   Screens
   
154.072   Rodent proofing
Responsibilities of Owners and Occupants
   
154.085   Requirements in addition to chapter
   
154.086   Maintenance of common areas
   
154.087   Maintenance of occupied premises
   
154.088   Extermination
   
154.089   Plumbing fixtures
   
154.090   Hanging screens
   
154.091   Rubbish and garbage disposal
Rooming Houses
   
154.105   Compliance with chapter
   
154.106   Permit provisions
   
154.107   Notice to occupants of violations
   
154.108   Toilet and bath facilities
   
154.109   Change of linen
   
154.110   Minimum floor area
   
154.111   Exits
   
154.112   Responsibility for sanitary maintenance
   
154.113   Applicability of chapter to hotels
   
154.114   Meals; "No Cooking" signs
Unfit Dwellings and Condemnation
   
154.125   Compliance required
   
154.126   Condemnation; dwellings to be placarded
   
154.127   Vacating condemned buildings
   
154.128   Correction of defects
   
154.129   Defacing or removing placard
   
154.130   Demolition of condemned buildings
   
154.131   Hearing on condemnation
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.160   Inspections; right of access
   
154.161   Notice of alleged violation
   
154.162   Hearing on alleged violation; result of hearing
   
154.163   Housing Code Board of Appeals
   
154.164   Procedure for appeals
   
154.165   Highest standards to prevail
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
      DIRECTOR OF HEALTH. The legally appointed agent of the Health Authority
of the city or his authorized representative.
      DWELLING.
         (a)   Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by a human occupant.
         (b)   Temporary housing, as hereafter defined, shall not be regarded
as a DWELLING.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the Director of Health.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes excluding bathroom, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors,
closets, recreation room (but not including "living rooms"), private workshops
or hobby rooms, and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units for rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; and
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner or conservator
of the owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this chapter and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he were the owner.
      PLUMBING. All of the following facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas-
burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, clothes-
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator; provided that hospitals,
homes for the aged, and other institutions, licensed by the State Department of
Health under Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 333 shall not be regarded as ROOMING
HOUSES or as subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the terms shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust.
      SEWER PLUMBING. Connection to either a public sanitary sewer or a private
sewage disposal system in compliance with the state Sanitary Code and with the
approval of the Director of Health.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING.
         (a)   Any tent, trailer or similar structure which is used for human
shelter for not more than 30 consecutive days nor more than 90 days in any
calendar year; and
         (b)   Provided that, the tent, trailer or similar structure as a
dwelling for more than 30 consecutive days in any calendar year if the tent,
trailer or similar structure complies with the provisions of this chapter and
the statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state and the city.
   (B)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the word DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT,
ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof".
(1967 Code, § 9-1)
§ 154.002 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES AND LODGING HOUSES.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Board of Aldermen Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
47a-56 through 47a-56i, concerning the abatement of nuisances in tenement and
lodging houses.
   (B)   The Office of the Mayor is hereby appointed as the authority under the
Public Act to carry out the provisions of the Act.
(1967 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. passed 10-17-1966)
MAINTENANCE OF DWELLING UNITS
§ 154.015 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner or occupant or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.016 FOUNDATION, FLOOR, WALL, CEILING, ROOF.
   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably weather-
tight, water-tight and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording privacy; and
shall be kept in good repair.
(1967 Code, § 9-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.017 WINDOWS, DOORS AND THE LIKE.
   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof; and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
(1967 Code, § 9-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.018 STAIRS AND PORCHES.
   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance thereto
shall be maintained and kept in sound condition and good repair.
(1967 Code, § 9-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.019 PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed
and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects, leaks and
obstructions.
(1967 Code, § 9-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.020 BATHROOM FLOOR SURFACES.
   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(1967 Code, § 9-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.021 RAIN SPOUTS.
   All rain water shall be so drained and conveyed from every roof so as not to
cause dampness in the walls, ceilings or floors of any habitable room, or of
any bathroom or water closet compartment.
(1967 Code, § 9-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.022 EXTERIOR WOOD SURFACES.
   All exterior wood surfaces shall be adequately protected from water seepage
and against decay.
(1967 Code, § 9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.023 SUPPLIED FACILITIES.
   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is required
under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will function
safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory working
condition.
(1967 Code, § 9-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.024 SERVICES AND FACILITIES NOT TO BE SHUT OFF.
   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility, equipment
or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from or shut off
from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by him, except
for the temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or
alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies when discontinuance
of service is approved by the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, § 9-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.025 CLEAN AND SANITARY CONDITION.
   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling unit
unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy.
(1967 Code, § 9-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
§ 154.035 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner/occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements of this
subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.036 KITCHENS.
   (A)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room or space for the
storage, preparation and cooking of food, which shall include space for a stove
or other cooking facilities and space for dry food storage and space for
refrigerated food storage, and shall include a kitchen sink installed. The sink
shall be in good working condition and properly connected to hot and cold
running water plumbing and sewer plumbing which sink and plumbing shall be
installed and maintained in a manner prescribed by ordinance and rules and
regulations of the city.
      (2)   Adequate water pressure shall be maintained at all outlets.
   (B)   The occupants of not more than two dwelling units may share a kitchen,
providing the kitchen contains a kitchen sink which meets the requirements of
division (A) of this section and §
154.039 of this chapter.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-26, 9-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.037 TOILETS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with a complete bathroom fixture
group consisting of a flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
in good working condition and installed and maintained in a manner prescribed
by ordinances or rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   The fixture group shall be properly connected to an approved plumbing
system and to an approved hot and cold running water system under pressure,
except that the flush water closet shall be connected to an approved plumbing
system and to an approved cold running water system under pressure, except that
the flush water closet shall be connected to an approved plumbing system and to
an approved cold running water system under pressure.
   (C)   The flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower need not
be installed in the same room, but the room or rooms shall afford privacy to a
person within the room or rooms.
(1967 Code, § 9-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.038 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate rubbish storage facilities and
adequate garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers in
accordance with the provisions of this code relative to storage, collection and
disposal of wastes (see
Chapter 50, Solid Waste).
(1967 Code, § 9-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.039 HOT WATER HEATING EQUIPMENT. 
   (A)   Whether supplied by the owner or the tenant, the hot water heating
equipment necessary to provide hot water required by this subchapter shall be
properly installed and connected and shall be maintained in safe and good
working condition, and shall be capable of heating water to such a temperature
as to permit adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen
sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature not less than 120°F.
   (B)   The water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the
requirements of this section when the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or
rooming unit heating facilities required under the provisions of §§
154.069 and
154.105 are not in effect.
(1967 Code, § 9-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.040 EXITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level as required by the statutes,
ordinances and regulations of the state and the city and approved by the Fire
Department.
   (B)   In the case of two dwelling units sharing a kitchen, as provided in §
154.036(B), egress from the common kitchen may be deemed sufficient compliance
with this section.
(1967 Code, § 9-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.050 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling unit,
for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.051 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 120 square feet of floor area for
the first occupant thereof and at least 70 additional square feet of floor area
for every additional occupant thereof, the floor areas to be calculated on the
basis of total usable floor area of habitable rooms.
(1967 Code, § 9-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.052 MINIMUM SLEEPING ROOM FLOOR AREA.
   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
usable floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 additional square feet of usable floor
area for each additional occupant thereof.
(1967 Code, § 9-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.053 CEILING HEIGHT.
   (A)   At least half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have a
ceiling height of at least seven feet four inches.
   (B)   The floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is
less than five feet or where the room width is less than seven feet shall not
be considered in computing the usable floor area of the room for the purpose of
determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
(1967 Code, § 9-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.054 PERMIT REQUIRED TO USE CELLAR SPACE AS DWELLING UNIT.
   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit without
written permission from the Director of Public Health and the Building
Official.
(1967 Code, § 9-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.055 USE OF BASEMENT SPACE.
   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless,
in addition to the other provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage or underground and
surface run-off water and insulated against dampness.
   (B)   The minimum aggregate glass area of windows as required under §
154.066(A) is located entirely above the grade of the ground adjoining the
window area.
(1967 Code, § 9-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Flood hazard reduction; general standards, see §
153.20
   Windows and ventilation, see §
154.066
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION, LIGHT AND HEATING
§ 154.065 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner/occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling units, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.066 WINDOWS AND VENTILATION. 
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum aggregate glass area of windows for
habitable rooms shall be not less than one-eighth of the floor area of the room
served by them. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any habitable room and such light-obstruction structures are located less than
three feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of
the room, such a window shall not be included as contributing to the required
minimum total window area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-
type window in the top of the room, the minimum aggregate glass area of the
skylight shall be not less than three-twentieths of the total floor area of the
room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or such other device or method as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total of the openable window area in every habitable
room shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum aggregate glass area of the
window or skylight-type window as required in division (A) of this section,
except where there is supplied some other device or method affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-39, 9-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.067 BATHROOMS TO COMPLY WITH LIGHT AND VENTILATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the light and
ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in §
154.066 except where the bathroom or water closet compartment is adequately
ventilated by a ventilation system which is kept in satisfactory operating
condition, and approved by the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, § 9-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.068 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Where there is electrical service available from power lines which are
not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, every dwelling unit and all public
and common areas shall be supplied with electric service, outlets and fixtures
which shall be properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working
condition, and shall be connected to the source of electrical power in a manner
prescribed by the provisions of this code, ordinances, rules and regulations of
the city.
   (B)   The capacity of the services and the number of outlets and fixtures
shall be:
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one floor or wall-type
electric convenience outlet for each 60 square feet or fraction thereof of
floor area, and in no case less than two such outlets, one of which may be a
ceiling or wall type electric light fixture; and
      (2)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace
room, and public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type
electric light fixture.
(1967 Code, § 9-42) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 154.069 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall contain heating facilities,
furnished either by the owner or occupant which are properly installed, are
maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable of safely and
adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments
located therein. Heating, where supplied by the owner, shall be supplied in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 19a-109.
   (B)   Where central or space heating facilities are used, they shall meet
the following requirements.
      (1)   Every central heating unit or central hot water heating unit shall:
         (a)   Have every heat duct, steam pipe or hot water pipe free of leaks
and functioning properly to provide an adequate amount of heat or hot water to
the intended place of delivery;
         (b)   Be provided with seals between sections of hot air furnaces to
prevent the escape of noxious gases into heat ducts;
         (c)   If employing electricity, be connected to an electric circuit of
adequate capacity in an approved manner; and
         (d)   Be provided with automatic or safety devices and be installed
and operated in the manner required by the statutes, ordinances and regulations
of the state and the city.
      (2)   Every space heating unit or hot water facility shall:
         (a)   Not use gasoline as a fuel;
         (b)   Not be of the portable type if using solid, liquid or gaseous
fuel;
         (c)   If employing a flame, be connected to a flue or vent in the
manner required by the statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state and
the city;
         (d)   If employing solid or liquid fuels, have a fire-resistant panel
beneath it;
         (e)   Be located at least two feet away from any wall or be equipped
with insulation sufficient to prevent the overheating of any wall in a manner
prescribed by the current standards of the American Standards Association and
the National Fire Protection Association;
         (f)   If employing gaseous fuel, be equipped with other than rubber
tube, armored rubber tube connector or plastic;
         (g)   If employing electricity, be connected to an electric circuit of
adequate capacity in an improved manner; and
         (h)   Be installed and operated in the manner required by the
statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state and the city. The standards
of the city plumbing code are those of the American Standards Association, the
National Fire Protection Association and the Bureau of Standards of Washington.
(1967 Code, § 9-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.070 LIGHTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every common hallway and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted with lighting facilities sufficient to provide to at least
one footcandle of light at the floor or stair tread level at all times.
   (B)   Every common hallway and stairway in structures devoted solely to
dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four dwelling units may be
supplied with conveniently located light switches controlling an adequate
lighting system which may be turned on when needed.
   (C)   (1)   Every cellar and every basement in every dwelling shall have
adequate lighting facilities with conveniently located light switches which may
be turned on and off when needed.
      (2)   The lighting facilities shall provide at least one footcandle of
light at the floor level.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-44, 9-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.071 SCREENS. 
   (A)   During that portion of each year when the Director of Health deems it
necessary for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects, every
door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have screens
and a self-closing device; and every window or other device with openings to
outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation shall be adequately
screened; provided that, the screen shall not be required during the period in
rooms deemed by the Director of Health to be located high enough in the upper
stories of buildings as to be free from such insects, and in rooms located in
areas of the city which are deemed by the Director of Health to have so few
insects as to render screens unnecessary.
   (B)   Screens shall be furnished by the tenant, except in those cases where
there is a mutual agreement as to screens between landlord and tenant.
(1967 Code, § 9-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.072 RODENT PROOFING.
   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for ventilation,
and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry for rodents,
shall be equipped with a screen or such other device as will effectively
prevent their entrance.
(1967 Code, § 9-47) Penalty, see §
10.99
RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 154.085 REQUIREMENTS IN ADDITION TO CHAPTER.
   The following responsibilities of owners and occupants are in addition to
those specified elsewhere throughout this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-48)
§ 154.086 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREAS. 
   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
common areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
(1967 Code, § 9-49) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.087 MAINTENANCE OF OCCUPIED PREMISES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he occupies and controls.
(1967 Code, § 9-50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.088 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit within the dwelling that is infested.
   (B)   Not withstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-
proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or common parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
(1967 Code, § 9-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.089 PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures therein
in a clean and sanitary condition and the repair of the fixtures shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
(1967 Code, § 9-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.090 HANGING SCREENS. 
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for hanging all
screens, except where the owner has agreed to supply the service.
(1967 Code, § 9-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.091 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in rubbish containers as
required by §
154.038.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might be food for rodents, in a clean
and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers required by §
154.038.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-54, 9-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
ROOMING HOUSES
§ 154.105 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy, any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in compliance with
the provisions of every section of this chapter, except the provisions of §§
154.035 through
154.055.
(1967 Code, § 9-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.106 PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Permit required; application; issuance. No person shall operate a
rooming house unless he holds a valid rooming house permit issued by the
Director of Health in the name of the operator and for the specific dwelling or
dwelling unit. The operator shall apply to the Director of Health for the
permit, which shall be issued by the Director of Health upon compliance by the
operator with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Display; nontransferable; notice of change of ownership; term; fee.
The permit required by division (A) of this section shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place within the rooming house at all times. No such permit shall
be transferable. Every person or entity holding such a permit shall give notice
in writing to the Director of Health within 24 hours after having sold,
transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of ownership of, interest in or
control of any rooming house. The notice shall include the name and address of
the person succeeding to the ownership or control of the rooming house. Every
rooming house permit shall expire on January 31 following its date of issuance,
unless sooner suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided. The fee for the
license shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the
annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
   (C)   Appeal from denial of issuance. Any person whose application for a
permit to operate a rooming house has been denied may request in writing and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Housing Code Appeals Board
under the procedure provided in §§
154.161 through
154.164 for the hearing of petitions relating to notices.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation. Whatever upon inspection of any rooming
house the Director of Health finds that conditions or practices exist which are
in violation of any provision of this chapter, the Director of Health shall
give notice in writing to the operator of the rooming house that unless the
conditions or practices are corrected within 30 days, the operator's rooming
house permit will be suspended. At the end of the period, the Director of
Health shall reinspect the rooming house, and if he finds that such conditions
or practices have not been corrected, he shall give notice in writing to the
operator that the latter's permit has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of
suspension, the operator shall immediately cease operation of the rooming
house, and no person shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming
unit herein.
   (E)   Appeals from suspension. Any person whose permit to operate a rooming
house has been suspended, or who has received notice from the Director of
Health that his permit is to be suspended unless existing conditions or
practices at his rooming house are corrected, may request in writing and shall
be granted a hearing on the matter before the Housing Code Board of Appeals
under the procedure provided by §§
154.161 through
154.164 provided that if no petition for the hearing is filed within 15 days
following the date on which the permit was suspended, the permit shall be
deemed to have been automatically revoked.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-57—9-61) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 11-30-1989; Ord.
passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.107 NOTICE TO OCCUPANTS OF VIOLATIONS. 
   When notification of a violation has been given to the operator, the notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the house so that all occupants are
cognizant of the situation.
(1967 Code, § 9-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.108 TOILET AND BATH FACILITIES.
   At least one flush closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly
connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Director of Health, and
in good working condition, shall be supplied for each two rooming units of
three rooms or less, or each six persons or fraction thereof residing within a
rooming house, including members of the operator's family wherever they share
the use of the facilities; provided that, in a rooming house where rooms are
let only to males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half
the required number of water closets. All such facilities shall be located
within the dwelling as to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or
passageway to all of the persons sharing the facilities, and shall be on the
same floor as the rooming units which it serves; provided that, where the
number of rooming units does not exceed two, the Director of Health may approve
the use of suitable and adequate facilities on the floor immediately above or
below the rooming units if the total number of persons using the facilities
does not exceed four and if the use does not conflict with other provisions of
this chapter or the state statutes. Any one toilet may not be shared by the
occupants of more than two floors. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot water at a temperature of not less than 120°F. No
such facilities shall be located in a basement except by written approval by
the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, § 9-63) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.109 CHANGE OF LINEN.
   (A)   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplies, bed linen
and towels at least once a week, and prior to the letting of any room to any
occupant.
   (B)   The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied
bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
(1967 Code, § 9-64) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 154.110 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at
least 70 square feet of usable floor area as defined in §
154.053 and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person
shall contain at least 50 square feet of additional usable floor area as so
defined for each additional occupant thereof.
(1967 Code, § 9-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.111 EXITS.
   Every room unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level, as required by the statutes, ordinances
and regulations of the state and the city.
(1967 Code, § 9-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.112 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for maintenance of sanitary
conditions in every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be further
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the
entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
(1967 Code, § 9-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.113 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO HOTELS.
   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall also
apply to hotels, except as provided in §
154.114(A) and except to the extent that any such provision may be found in
conflict with the laws of the state or with the of any state board or agency.
(1967 Code, § 9-68)
§ 154.114 MEALS; "NO COOKING" SIGNS.
   (A)   No meals may be prepared in a rooming house other than in a dwelling
unit contained therein, except that this section shall not apply to the eating
of meals in establishments which hold valid restaurant licenses issued by the
Health Department and which have the rooming house and restaurant operations
integrated as a single business enterprise.
   (B)   The operator of any rooming house shall post in a conspicuous place a
sign on which shall be written or printed in letters not less than three-
eighths of one inch in height the following words: "No Cooking in Rooms Used
For Sleeping Purposes". The sign shall remain so posted at all times.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-69, 9-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNFIT DWELLINGS AND CONDEMNATION
§ 154.125 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of the unfit dwelling or
dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.126 CONDEMNATION; DWELLINGS TO BE PLACARDED.
   Any dwelling or dwelling units which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the Director of Health:
   (A)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe or
vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public;
   (B)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public as
prescribed by the provisions of this chapter; and/or
   (C)   One which because of its general condition or location is unsanitary,
or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupant or of the
public.
(1967 Code, § 9-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.127 VACATING CONDEMNED BUILDINGS.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation and so
designated and placarded by the Director of Health, shall be vacated within a
reasonable time as ordered by the Director of Health.
(1967 Code, § 9-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.128 CORRECTION OF DEFECTS.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as unfit
for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from, and the placard is removed by, the Director of
Health. The Director of Health shall remove the placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based has been
eliminated.
(1967 Code, § 9-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.129 DEFACING OR REMOVING PLACARD.
   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling
unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and placarded as
such, except as provided in §
154.128.
(1967 Code, § 9-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.130 DEMOLITION OF CONDEMNED BUILDINGS.
   Any dwelling unit condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation as
designated in this section may be ordered demolished by the Director of Health
after 60 days upon notice to owner and all parties having a recorded equitable
interest, subject to court order.
(1967 Code, § 9-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.131 HEARING ON CONDEMNATION.
   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning and
placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request, in writing, and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Housing Code Appeals Board under the procedure provided by §§
154.161 through
154.164.
(1967 Code, § 9-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.160 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The Director of Health shall make inspections to determine the condition of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and premises located within the city.
For the purpose of making the inspections, the Director of Health is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Director of Health free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of the
inspection, examination and survey. Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part
of the dwelling or dwelling unit, or its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making the repairs and alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 9-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.161 NOTICE OF ALLEGED VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Director of Health determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, he shall give notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefore, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reason why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
and
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant, as the case
may require; provided that the notice shall be deemed to be properly served
upon the owner or agent, or upon the occupant, if a copy thereof is served upon
him personally; or if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to his last
known address, or in the event that either of the aforestated methods of
serving the notice has been tried and proved to be ineffectual, if a copy
thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by
the notice; or if he is served with the notice by any other method authorized
or required under the laws of the state.
   (C)   The notice may contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken,
will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(1967 Code, § 9-3)
§ 154.162 HEARING ON ALLEGED VIOLATION; RESULT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Director of Health; provided that,
the person shall file in the office of the Director of Health a written
petition requesting the hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the
grounds therefor, within 15 days after the day that notice was served. Upon
receipt of the petition, the Director of Health shall set a time and place for
the hearing, and shall mail the petitioner written notice thereof at least ten
days prior to the hearing. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show why the notice should be modified or
withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than 30 days after the day
on which the petition was filed; provided that, upon application of the
petitioner, the Director of Health may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond the 30-day period, if, in his judgment, the petitioner
has submitted good and sufficient reason for the postponement.
   (B)   After the hearing the Director of Health shall sustain, modify or
withdraw the notice, depending upon his finding as to whether the provisions of
this chapter have been complied with. If the Director of Health finds that
strict compliance with the notice would result in difficulty or unreasonable
hardship, he may, with the concurrence of the Board of Health, modify or
withdraw the notice; or also grant an extension or variance in accordance with
the following conditions:
      (1)   The time for performance of any act required by the notice may be
extended for not more than 18 months subject to appropriate conditions and
where the Director of Health makes specific findings of fact based on evidence
relating to the particular case;
      (2)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of any provision of this chapter; and
      (3)   The extension is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter in securing the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   A variance may be granted in a specific case and from a specific
provision of this chapter subject to appropriate conditions and where the
Director of Health makes specific findings of fact based on evidence relating
to the particular case:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the provisions;
      (2)   The effect of the application of the provisions would be arbitrary
in the specific case;
      (3)   An extension would not constitute an appropriate remedy for these
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships and this arbitrary effect; and
      (4)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter in securing the public health, safety and general welfare.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-4, 9-5)
§ 154.163 HOUSING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS. 
   There is hereby created a Housing Code Board of Appeals which shall consist
of the Director of Health, who shall be chair, the Building Official, the
Electrical Inspector, the assistant Plumbing Inspector, the Fire Marshal and
the City Plan Engineer. In addition thereto, the Mayor shall appoint two
electors of the city and a member of the Board of Aldermen, all of which
appointments shall be subject to approval by the Board of Aldermen. The
appointments shall be for a term of two years or until their successors have
been appointed and have qualified. A public stenographer or a stenographic
employee of one of the city departments shall be designated to act as secretary
of the Board, subject to existing appropriations. All meetings of the Board
shall be open to the public.
(1967 Code, § 9-6)
§ 154.164 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS. 
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Director of Health, after
a hearing by him may appeal to the Housing Code Board of Appeals by filing a
written notice with the Director of Health, within 15 days of his decision
setting forth a brief statement of the grounds thereof. Upon receipt of the
petition, the Director of Health shall notify such Board to set a time and
place for a hearing, and shall mail the petitioner written notice thereof at
least ten days prior to the hearing. The hearing shall be commenced not later
than 30 days after the day on which the petition was filed; provided that, upon
application of the petitioner, the Board may postpone the date of the hearing
for a reasonable time beyond the 30-day period; if, in its judgment, the
petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for the postponement, but
in no event shall the hearing be postponed longer than 60 days.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals by a majority vote of those present, may sustain
or modify or reverse the order or decision of the Director of Health in
accordance with its findings of fact based on evidence relating to the
particular case. The Director of Health shall at no time be permitted to vote
on any matter nor shall he be permitted to decide a tie-vote.
   (C)   The proceedings at the hearings, including the findings and decision
of the Director of Health and the Housing Code Board of Appeals, shall be
summarized, reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the City Clerk and shall be open to reasonable public inspection. The
record shall also include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection
with the matter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Director of Health
or the Housing Code Board of Appeals may seek relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the state.
   (D)   If a notice is sustained, modified or extended by the Board of
Appeals, it shall become an order as so sustained, modified or extended. Any
notice served pursuant to §
154.162 shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing
is not filed in the office of the Director of Health within 15 days after the
notice is served.
   (E)   After a hearing or hearings in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this chapter, when the notice has been sustained by the
Director of Health or the Housing Code Board of Appeals, the permit shall be
deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which has been suspended by a
notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked, if a petition for a hearing
is not filed in the office of the Director of Health within 15 days after the
notice is served.
(1967 Code, §§ 9-7—9-11)
§ 154.165 HIGHEST STANDARDS TO PREVAIL.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, health or other
ordinance or code of the city, the provision which establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail.
(1967 Code, § 9-12)
CHAPTER 155: INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES
Section
   
155.01   Purpose of provisions
Cross-reference:
   Inland Wetlands and Watercourse Commission, see §
31.005
§ 155.01 PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS.
   The inland wetlands and watercourses are an indispensable and irreplaceable
but fragile natural resource with which the citizens of the city have been
endowed. The wetlands and watercourses are an interrelated web of nature
essential to an adequate supply of surface and underground water; to
hydrological stability and control of flooding and erosion; to the recharging
and purification of ground water; and to the existence of many forms of animal,
aquatic and plant life. Many inland wetlands and watercourses have been
destroyed or are in danger of destruction because of unregulated use by reason
of deposition filling or removal of material, the diversion or obstruction of
water flow, the erection of structures and other uses all of which have
despoiled, polluted and eliminated wetlands and watercourses. The unregulated
activity has had and will continue to have a significant, adverse impact on the
environment and ecology of the city and has and will continue to imperil the
quality of the environment, thus adversely affecting the ecological, scenic,
historic and recreational values and benefits of the city for its citizens now
and forevermore. The preservation and protection of the wetlands and
watercourses from random, unnecessary, undesirable and unregulated uses,
disturbance or destruction is in the public interest and is essential to the
health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the city. It is, therefore, the
purpose of this chapter to protect the citizens of the city by making
provisions for the protection, preservation, maintenance and use of the inland
wetlands and watercourses by minimizing their disturbance and pollution;
maintaining and improving water quality in accordance with the highest
standards set by federal, state or local authority; preventing damage from
erosion, turbidity or siltation; preventing loss of fish and other beneficial
aquatic organisms, wildlife and vegetation, and the destruction of the natural
habitats thereof; deterring and inhibiting the danger of flood and pollution;
protecting the quality of wetlands and watercourses for their conservation,
economic, aesthetic, recreational and other public and private uses and values;
and protecting the city's potable fresh water supplies from the dangers of
drought, overdraft, pollution, misuse and mismanagement by providing an orderly
process to balance the need for the economic growth of the city and the use of
its land with the need to protect its environment and ecology in order to
forever guarantee the people of the city the safety of such natural resources
for their benefit and enjoyment and for the benefit and enjoyment of
generations yet unborn.
(1967 Code, § 20-11) (Ord. passed 10-21-1974)
CHAPTER 156: PLUMBING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Interpretation of provisions
   
156.03   Inspections
   
156.04   Materials and workmanship generally
   
156.05   Work done by public utility companies
   
156.06   Tests
   
156.07   Orders to repair system
Permit Provisions
   
156.20   Permit required
   
156.21   Permit fees
   
156.22   Permits and licenses required for certain work
Material Requirements; Work Regulations
   
156.35   Type pipe to be used
   
156.36   Use of copper tubing
   
156.37   Main drain
   
156.38   Drain pipes to be securely fastened; grade
   
156.39   Quality, size and grade of pipe from house to sewer
   
156.40   Height of pipes above roof
   
156.41   Use of curve pipes
   
156.42   Connections
   
156.43   Use of galvanized wrought iron for carrying greasy waste
   
156.44   Rain leaders
   
156.45   Water heaters
   
156.46   Hot water supply systems
   
156.47   Flush valves; cross connections
   
156.48   Water service pipe; second hand pipe and fixtures
   
156.49   Joints
   
156.50   Traps
   
156.51   Refrigerator and overflow waste
   
156.52   Flushing pipes of water closets
   
156.53   Separate drain for safes
   
156.54   Cesspools and privies not to be connected to sewers
   
156.55   Steam exhausts and blow-off
   
156.56   Cellar and stable drains; surface water
   
156.57   Open connections prohibited
Drain Layers
   
156.70   License required
   
156.71   Examination; Board
   
156.72   Issuance
   
156.73   Board of Examiners of Plumbers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADER PIPE. Pipes which carry rain water from roofs to sewer.
   MAIN DRAIN. The large, nearly horizontal, pipe which connects at one end
with the sewer or cesspool and at the other end with one or more branches
leading to the various fixtures.
   SOIL PIPE. Branch lines of pipe connecting with the main drain and which
receive discharges from water closets.
   VENT PIPE. Lines of pipe run from the crown of traps, to communicate with
outside air and used primarily to prevent syphonage of traps.
   WASTE PIPES. Branch pipes connecting with the main drain and which receive
discharges from any fixtures except water closets.
(1967 Code, § 16-1)
§ 156.02 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Any question as to the intent and meaning of the provisions of this chapter
shall be decided by the City Engineer; provided that, any person dissatisfied
or aggrieved by his decision may appeal to the Board of Aldermen, whose
decision shall be final.
(1967 Code, § 16-36)
§ 156.03 INSPECTIONS.
   The plumber shall notify the City Engineer in writing when his work shall be
ready for inspection. No soil, waste, drain or ventilating pipes shall be
covered or concealed from view until approved by the City Engineer, who shall
examine same within two working days of receipt of notice that they are ready
for inspection.
(1967 Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.04 MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP GENERALLY.
   All materials shall be of good quality and free from defects of any kind,
and the work shall be executed in a thorough and workman-like manner. All of
the work and the style and design of the pipes, drains, fresh air inlets, water
closet and vent pipes shall be in all respects satisfactory to the City
Engineer, and placed and finished to his acceptance.
(1967 Code, § 16-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.05 WORK DONE BY PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES.
   Sections
156.42 through
156.48 and
156.22 of this chapter shall not apply to any company especially chartered by
the state to distribute and sell gas and operating under the jurisdiction of
the Public Utilities Commission which may, by its employees, install or repair
gas piping in any building and make gas connections to the devices and
appliances. In doing such, it shall observe and follow any ordinances
specifying the manner in which the work shall be done, and shall take out the
permits relating to each installation job as would be required of others. Any
ordinance governing or applying to persons relating to or requiring a license
for, or requiring a bond for, or prohibiting them from installing or repairing
gas piping and gas fuel operated devices, appliances and accessories shall not
apply to the specially chartered companies or their employees when working as
employees of the companies, except that any fee based on per fixture
installation shall be paid.
(1967 Code, § 16-20)
§ 156.06 TESTS. 
   After all branches to fixtures have been run, but before fixtures are
connected, all openings shall be closed securely and all lines of soil and
waste pipe tested by air pressure, water pressure or by other adequate tests
satisfactory to the City Engineer. After all fixtures are connected and in
place the entire system shall be tested in the presence of the City Engineer,
or his representative, by the peppermint test, smoke test or other method
approved by the City Engineer.
(1967 Code, § 16-26)
§ 156.07 ORDERS TO REPAIR SYSTEM.
   Whenever the City Engineer shall find that the drainage system of any
building is defective either in design, construction or quality of material
used to such extent as may be injurious to the health of the inhabitants of the
building, he shall have the power to order the drainage system repaired,
changed or rebuilt to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(1967 Code, § 16-35)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 156.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before proceeding to construct any portion of the draining system of any
building, the plumber shall make written application to the City Engineer
describing the work contemplated, where located and when same is to be
commenced. This description of work shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, who shall
then give a written permit for the work. No work shall be commenced before
receiving the permit.
(1967 Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.21 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees to be paid shall be determined by the Building Official and
shall be noted on the application when the permit is issued.
   (B)   The fees shall be paid to the Tax Collector who shall give a receipt
for the same; upon the presentation of this receipt by a licensed plumber the
permit shall be issued to the applicant.
   (C)   The fees for permits required by §
156.20 shall be based on the cost of the job and set forth in the schedule of
fees and charges attached to the annual budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
(1967 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
§ 156.22 PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN WORK.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued to licensed master plumbers only to install
range boilers and water heaters. They shall be issued by the Plumbing Inspector
and he shall charge the plumber the same fee as for a plumbing fixture.
(1967 Code, § 16-18)
   (B)   No person shall do any work or make any connection to the water pipe
or make any alteration or addition to any existing water heater or install any
new water heater unless the person has been licensed as provided by law and a
certificate of competency has been issued to him.
(1967 Code, § 16-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS; WORK REGULATIONS
§ 156.35 TYPE PIPE TO BE USED.
   (A)   All drain, soil, waste, vent and leader pipes, except as herein
otherwise provided, shall be of best quality cast iron pipe of the grade known
as extra heavy, or best quality standard weight, galvanized wrought iron pipe,
except that black wrought iron pipe or black copper-bearing steel pipe may be
used for rain water leaders or down spouts when connected to any brook or
watercourse, except that lead pipe may be used for short connections where
necessary, subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   (B)   The pipe shall be of uniform thickness throughout, shall be free from
all defects and shall have average weights not less than that specified below:
      (1)   For cast iron pipe.
 
Size        Average Weight
2-inch pipe 5-1/2 pounds per foot
3-inch pipe 9-1/2 pounds per foot
4-inch pipe 13 pounds per foot
5-inch pipe 17 pounds per foot
6-inch pipe 20 pounds per foot
8-inch pipe 33-1/2 pounds per foot
 
      (2)   For wrought iron pipe.
Size Average Weight
Size            Average Weight
1-1/2-inch pipe 2.68 pounds per foot
2-inch pipe     3.61 pounds per foot
2-1/2-inch pipe 5.74 pounds per foot
3-inch pipe     7.54 pounds per foot
3-1/2-inch pipe 9 pounds per foot
4-inch pipe     10.66 pounds per foot
4-1/2-inch pipe 12.49 pounds per foot
5-inch pipe     14.50 pounds per foot
6-inch pipe     18.76 pounds per foot
 
(1967 Code, § 16-6) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 156.36 USE OF COPPER TUBING.
   (A)   Soil, waste, drain, vent or rain leader pipes, may be of copper tube,
Type "M" conforming to A.S.T.M. (American Society for Testing Materials),
Specification B88-49.
   (B)   Copper tube used for soil, waste, drain, vent or rain leader pipes
shall be joined with approved cast brass or wrought solder-joint fittings.
   (C)   Vertical soil, waste or vent stacks may be three-inch Type "M" copper
tube; provided, the load does not exceed 34 fixture units and provided the
stack is increased at a point below the roof to a distance of two feet above
the roof, to four inches where it passes through the roof. Three-inch vertical
stacks may carry not more than two water closets.
   (D)   Horizontal drains may be of three-inch Type "M" copper tube provided
the load does not exceed 24 fixture units.
   (E)   The following table of fixture-unit values, designating the relative
load weights of different kinds of fixtures, shall be employed in applying this
section.
Fixture Fixture Unit Value
Fixture                                                      Fixture Unit Value
Bathtub with 1-1/2-inch trap                                 2
Bathtub with 2-inch trap                                     4
Bidet                                                        2
Combination sink and laundry tub with 1-1/2-inch trap        2
Dental unit                                                  1/2
Dental lavatory                                              1
Drinking fountain                                            1/2
Dishwasher with 1-1/2-inch trap                              2
Floor drain with 3-inch trap                                 1
Kitchen sink with 1-1/2-inch trap                            2
Kitchen sink with 2-inch trap                                4
Lavatory with 1-1/4-inch trap                                1
Lavatory with 1-1/2-inch trap                                2
Laundry tub with 1-1/2-inch trap                             2
Shower head (see note)                                       2
Sink-soda fountain or bar with 1-1/4-inch trap               1
Sink with flush trap                                         5
Sink service (slop)                                          3
Sink-scullery with 1-1/2-inch trap                           2
Sink-scullery with 2-inch trap                               4
Urinal-stall or washout                                      2
Urinal-pedestal, siphon jet and blowout                      4
Wash sink (circular or multiple) each set of faucets with 1- 1
1/2-inch trap
Water closet                                                 6
Note: Shower head over bathtub adds no fixture units
 
   (F)   Where, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, three-inch
stack is used, the venting of a water closet may be omitted where the distance
from the outlet of the closet to the branch in the main waste pipe does not
exceed two feet.
   (G)   A three-inch fresh air inlet may be used where the main drain does not
exceed three inches. Where the main drain exceeds three inches, the size of the
fresh air inlet shall conform therewith.
   (H)   Copper tube used for soil, waste, drain, vent or rain leader pipes
shall be permanently marked with the name or trademark of the manufacturer, and
a mark indicative of the type or gauge at intervals of approximately 12 inches.
   (I)   The portion of the drain outside the building and more than three feet
from the wall of same may be copper tube conforming to the gauge specified in
A.S.T.M. Specification B88-49 as Type "K".
(1967 Code, § 16-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.37 MAIN DRAIN.
   The main drain from every building shall be laid outside the walls of the
building so far as is practicable and shall have a trap and fresh air inlet
located through the cellar wall. This fresh air inlet shall connect with the
outer air by a pipe not less than four inches in diameter. The opening shall be
properly protected with iron box or by other means acceptable to the City
Engineer.
(1967 Code, § 16-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.38 DRAIN PIPES TO BE SECURELY FASTENED; GRADE.
   All drain pipes shall be properly secured by irons to walls, supported from
floor timbers by strong iron hangers, or run on brick piers, and shall not be
laid underneath the cellar floor except where absolutely necessary, when
permission shall be obtained from the City Engineer. All pipes shall be given
as much grade as is practicable, but in no case less than one-fourth inch to
one foot.
(1967 Code, § 16-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.39 QUALITY, SIZE AND GRADE OF PIPE FROM HOUSE TO SEWER. 
   The portion of the drain outside the building and more than three feet from
wall of same shall be of best quality extra heavy iron soil pipe of sufficient
size not less than four inches in diameter. The grade from building to sewer
shall be straight and true as far as practicable and shall not, in any place,
be less than one-fourth inch to one foot.
(1967 Code, § 16-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.40 HEIGHT OF PIPES ABOVE ROOF.
   All soil, waste and vent pipes shall be carried at least two feet above roof
or building, and the top left open and protected with a wire screen. No pipes
above roof shall be less than two inches in diameter. Vent pipes may branch
into soil or waste pipes above the highest fixture if desirable. No opening of
soil, vent, waste or leader pipes shall come in such a position as to render
liable to contamination the air of any neighboring window.
(1967 Code, § 16-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.41 USE OF CURVE PIPES.
   Curve pipes shall be used for every deflection from a straight line or more
than one and one-half inches in one foot. Branch soil and waste pipes shall
join each other, and on the main drain with a fitting of suitable curve, never
at right angles except when discharging into a vertical pipe in such a position
that it is impracticable to do otherwise.
(1967 Code, § 16-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.42 CONNECTIONS.
   All galvanized genuine wrought iron pipe shall be lap-welded; fittings shall
be the special extra heavy cast iron recessed and threaded drainage fittings
with smooth interior waterway and threads tapped so as to give a uniform grade
to branches of not less than one-fourth inch per foot; joints shall be screwed
joints, made up with red lead and the burr formed in cutting shall be carefully
reamed out; short nipples, where the unthreaded part of the pipe is less than
one and one-half inches long shall be of the thickness and weight known as
extra heavy.
(1967 Code, § 16-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.43 USE OF GALVANIZED WROUGHT IRON FOR CARRYING GREASY WASTE.
   The use of genuine galvanized wrought iron pipe for waste shall not be
permitted in any dwelling or apartment house on any fixture carrying greasy
waste.
(1967 Code, § 16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.44 RAIN LEADERS.
   Rain water leaders shall not be used as soil, waste or vent pipe, nor shall
any soil, waste or vent pipe be used as rain leaders. When outside rain leaders
are connected with the house drain they shall be properly trapped, the trap
being so placed as to prevent freezing and shall be located at least five feet
from the main drain. When inside rain leaders are used they shall be of extra
heavy cast iron pipe, or of genuine galvanized wrought iron pipe or as provided
in §
156.35, and need not be trapped excepting where opening in roof is not near a
window as to be liable to be dangerous or offensive.
(1967 Code, § 16-15) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 156.45 WATER HEATERS.
   (A)   All water heaters using gas or oil as a fuel and all existing water
heaters that are changed or replaced shall be provided with a metal flue, the
cross sectional area of which shall not be less than the aggregate area of the
vent outlet of the appliance connected to them. This does not apply to
appliances which have no vent outlet.
   (B)   Flues for the venting of gas or oil appliances shall be made of 24-
gauge iron or other approved material and shall be connected to a chimney or
carried two feet above the roof or to the outer air.
   (C)   Every flue-connected appliance (except an incinerator), unless its
construction serves the same purpose, shall be equipped with an effective draft
hood.
   (D)   No water heater using gas or oil as a fuel shall be installed in a
bathroom, bedroom or closet, toilet or any occupied room normally kept closed.
(1967 Code, § 16-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.46 HOT WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All domestic hot water supply systems employing a storage tank,
whatever the heat source and whether controlled manually or automatically,
hereafter installed or if already existing when the tanks are changed or
replaced, shall be equipped with effective devices to relieve excess pressure
and excess water temperature, which two functions may be combined in one
device. The device shall be constructed in brass or other corrosion resisting
material and shall be approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The pressure relief device shall be equipped with a means of testing
its free action in place. Its inlet shall not be less than one-half inch and
its outlet shall not be less than one-half inch. The size of the relief valve
shall be not less than the connecting supply pipe. The outlet shall be piped to
the nearest fixture or floor drain with iron pipe size brass pipe or heavy
copper tubing. The pressure relief device shall be located on the cold water
inlet and as close as practical to the storage tank. The circulating pipe
between the storage tank and the heating unit shall be iron pipe size brass or
copper pipe.
   (C)   The temperature relief device may accomplish its purpose by shutting
off the supply of heat or by discharging hot water and must be so installed
that the heat responsive portion will be exposed to the maximum water
temperature either in the storage tank or the hot water supply line. If it is
of the type which shuts off the supply of heat, it shall be independent of any
thermostatic control of water temperature and must be so designed that it will
have to be reset manually in order to put it back in service after it has
operated.
   (D)   The excess pressure relief valves will be required on instantaneous
types of heaters employing no storage tank.
(1967 Code, § 16-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.47 FLUSH VALVES; CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   No flush valve that is installed to flush water closets or any other fixture
or device shall be connected directly to any city water pipe or service pipe in
the city unless the flush valve or device is provided with approved air breaks
to overcome the vacuum created when the water is shut off; and no plumbing
fixture, device or construction shall be installed which will provide a cross
connection between the distributing system of water for drinking and domestic
purposes and a drainage system, soil or waste pipe so as to permit or make
possible the back flow of sewage or waste into the water supply system.
(1967 Code, § 16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.48 WATER SERVICE PIPE; SECOND HAND PIPE AND FIXTURES.
   The water service pipe to any building shall be of sufficient size to permit
a continuous ample flow of water on all floors at a given time and in no case
shall the service pipe be less than three-fourths inch. The use of second hand
pipe to convey water for domestic purposes is prohibited. The Plumbing
Inspector may require an affidavit to be filed with the permit to install any
second hand plumbing fixture, and in each case the applicant shall be required
to furnish a history of each fixture. No permit shall be issued for the
installation of any second hand plumbing fixture that has been used in
connection with any contagious disease.
(1967 Code, § 16-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.49 JOINTS.
   All joints shall be accurately fitted and made perfectly secure and tight.
Joints in vitrified tile pipe shall be made with a good quality hydraulic
cement, and the inside of the pipes carefully wiped and left smooth and clean.
Joints in iron pipes shall be made with oakum and lead thoroughly calked. In
lieu of cast iron soil pipe calked with leaded joints as is specified in this
subchapter, the contractor may use cast iron soil pipe of the same weight and
general dimensions but modified to the use of a positive-seal compression type
molded Neoprene gasket. Joints shall be assembled by means of special tools
designed for this purpose. Otherwise, the installation of this material shall
conform to this subchapter. Joints in lead pipes shall be made with brass
ferrules properly soldered to lead pipe and calked into hub of iron pipe with
oakum and lead. Joints between water closets and drain pipe shall be made with
approved brass flange, made up with gasket or white or red lead, and in no case
will cement or putty joints be allowed.
(1967 Code, § 16-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.50 TRAPS.
   (A)   All fixtures shall be separately trapped and traps placed as near as
practicable to the fixtures and, in no case, shall a trap be set more than one
foot from its fixture, except by the permission of the City Engineer. No traps
shall be placed in drain or in any soil or waste pipe in such place that they
will interfere with the free circulation of the outside air from the fresh air
inlet through pipes to house or to outlet above roof.
   (B)   All traps shall be one of the forms known as "S" traps unless special
permission is given by the City Engineer to use another form. Every trap shall
be separately vented and protected from syphonage by branch ventilating pipe
connecting with the main drain line or ventilating pipe, as before specified.
These vent pipes shall be attached to the crown of the trap where practicable.
They shall not be less than two inches in diameter for water-closet traps, nor
less than one and one-fourth inches for other single fixtures, and one and one-
half inches for two fixtures, and two inches for any number of fixtures more
than two. Where a closet and three or more other fixtures using one and one-
half inch traps or less are vented by the same branch vent pipe, the pipe shall
be increased to not less than three inches. The venting of a water-closet may
be omitted in the discretion of the Plumbing Inspector, when the waste pipe
with which it is connected is not less than four inches in diameter at all
points, and the distance from the outlet of the closet to the branch in the
main waste pipe does not exceed two feet. Vent pipes shall in all cases be of
extra heavy cast-iron, galvanized wrought iron or brass pipe, except immediate
connections with traps, which may be of lead.
(1967 Code, §§ 16-24, 16-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.51 REFRIGERATOR AND OVERFLOW WASTE.
   Waste from refrigerators and overflows from cisterns or water tanks from
which water is taken for drinking or cooking purposes, shall not be connected
directly with the soil or waste pipes, but shall empty over a sink or other
receptacle properly trapped.
(1967 Code, § 16-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.52 FLUSHING PIPES OF WATER CLOSETS.
   Flushing pipes of water closets shall not be taken directly from a service
pipe for supplying water used for cooking or drinking purposes, unless the
capacity of the service pipe and the pressure of water is ample to give a
discharge at the water closets when all other closets or outlets are open.
(1967 Code, § 16-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.53 SEPARATE DRAIN FOR SAFES. 
   Every safe under a wash basin, bath, urinal, water closet or other fixture
shall be drained by a separate pipe not directly connected with any soil or
waste pipe, but emptying over a sink or other receptacle properly trapped.
(1967 Code, § 16-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.54 CESSPOOLS AND PRIVIES NOT TO BE CONNECTED TO SEWERS.
   (A)   No cesspool or privy vault shall be connected with any private sewer
or drain connecting with the public sewer.
   (B)   Connections with cesspools will be allowed only in places where it is
impracticable to make connections with the public sewer. Where used, the
location, size, construction and connection of cesspool shall be subject to the
approval of the Plumbing Inspector or his authorized agent. In no case shall
any cesspool be less than six feet in diameter and eight feet deep below the
inlet or of equal area. Permits for the construction of any cesspool shall be
obtained from the Plumbing Inspector and no cesspool shall be covered or
concealed until approved by the Plumbing Inspector. Cesspools existing in
premises accessible to a public sewer and cesspools that may hereafter become
accessible to a public sewer shall be discontinued.
(1967 Code, §§ 16-30, 16-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.55 STEAM EXHAUSTS AND BLOW-OFF.
   No exhaust from steam engine or blow-off from steam boiler shall be
connected directly with any sewer or drain connecting with the public sewer,
but all such steam shall be condensed before passing into sewer.
(1967 Code, § 16-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.56 CELLAR AND STABLE DRAINS; SURFACE WATER.
   No cellar drain or drain from stables or surface water of any kind shall be
connected with any drain emptying into public sewer, except through the
interposition of a proper sand well, made easily accessible for cleaning. Where
cellar drains are set so low as to render it possible that backwater from the
sewer may under some circumstances be forced into the cellar, they shall be
provided with an approved form of check valve in addition to sand well as
above.
(1967 Code, § 16-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.57 OPEN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No owner or tenant of any building shall maintain an open connection with a
soil pipe or sewer or any opening in the soil pipe which is not in use for some
properly trapped fixture.
(1967 Code, § 16-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRAIN LAYERS
§ 156.70 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall lay, alter or repair any house drain or make any connection
whatever with any sewer belonging to the city, or do any kind of work upon a
house drain or make any repairs, additions or alterations to any pipe drain,
sewer or other fixtures connected or designed to be connected with the public
sewers unless regularly licensed to perform the work by the Board of Public
Works as provided by law.
(1967 Code, § 16-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Charter reference:
   Department of Public Works, see Charter § 6C-9
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning licensing, see §§
110.03 through
110.12
§ 156.71 EXAMINATION; BOARD.
   Any person or persons wishing to engage in the business of drain laying or
house connections only shall not be required to take a plumber's examination,
but the person or persons shall undergo such examination as the Board of
Examiners may designate to test the applicant's ability in laying the house
connections or drains provided the person shall furnish a bond in the amount of
$5,000 satisfactory to the Board of Public Works, and carry on the work as
provided by
Chapter 99 of this code.
(1967 Code, § 16-38)
§ 156.72 ISSUANCE.
    Upon receipt of a favorable report from the secretary of the Examining
Board as provided by law, the Board of Commissioners of Public Works may grant
licenses to the persons that have proved themselves competent to lay, alter or
repair any part of a house, sewer or drains connected with any brick or tile
sewer or drains belonging to the city.
(1967 Code, § 16-39)
§ 156.73 BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Board of Examiners of Plumbers. The Board
shall consist of the assistant plumbing inspector, one master plumber and one
journeyman plumber who shall be actively engaged in the business of plumbing
throughout their term of office. The members of the Board of Examiners of
Plumbers shall serve without compensation and their terms of office shall be
co-terminous with that of the Mayor unless removed by the Mayor for cause.
(1967 Code, § 16-40)
   (B)   The clerk of the Board of Public Works shall act as secretary. It
shall be the duty of the secretary to preserve and keep all records, books and
papers which are required by ordinance or by the Examining Board to be kept by
or filed with the Board, and to do or perform such other work as may be
required by the Board.
(1967 Code, § 16-41)
   (C)   The Board of Examiners shall, within 30 days after the appointment of
members, meet and organize by the selection of a chairman, and they shall
designate the time and place for the examination of all applicants for a
license. The Board shall examine applicants as to their practical and
theoretical knowledge of plumbing, house drainage and ventilation, and also as
to their knowledge of the ordinances of the city regulating the work. The
examination may be oral or written at the discretion of the Board. If satisfied
of the competency of the applicant, the Board shall so certify to the Board of
Public Works.
(1967 Code, § 16-42)
CHAPTER 157: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   General regulations
   
157.03   Roof signs
   
157.04   Wall signs
   
157.05   Projecting signs
   
157.06   Marquees
   
157.07   Unsafe signs
Permits and Licenses
   
157.20   Insurance policy requirement
   
157.21   Permits required
   
157.22   Term
   
157.23   Application
   
157.24   Fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.35   Enforcement by Building Official
   
157.36   Appeals from decisions of the Building Official
   
157.37   Notice to owner to remove illegal signs
   
157.38   Removal of signs by Building Official
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUND SIGNS. Any sign or device erected for the purpose of advertising, or
for the identification of a business or structure, supported from the ground
and not attached to any part of a building or structure.
   MARQUEE. Any contrivance or canopy attached to or affixed to a building for
the purpose of furnishing shelter to persons approaching an entrance to the
building, but not including, awnings, verandas or porches.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Advertising by means of painted pictures or lettering,
posters or images projected by any type of projector, upon any sign, board or
plane erected for that purpose either upon any part of any building or
structure or on independent structure supported from the ground.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign, bulletin or device erected for the purpose of
advertising or for the identification of a business or structure which is
attached to and projects from any part of a building or structure.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign, bulletin or device erected for the purpose of
advertising or for the identification of a business or a structure supported on
the roof of a building or structure.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign, bulletin or device erected for the purpose of
advertising, or for the identification of a business or a structure, parallel
to and as nearly against the face of a wall as projecting cornices, belt
courses or other ornamentations of the wall may permit.
(1967 Code, § 18-1)
§ 157.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs within fire limits. Within the inner fire limits, no sign or
advertising device of wood over two feet high shall be permitted on any
building and when less than two feet high shall be placed flat against a wall
or the space back of same shall be fire-stopped when required by the Building
Official. Other signs or advertising devices within the inner fire limits shall
be of metal, or shall have all exposed wood parts covered with metal, except
that wood letters, wood moldings and small wood ornamentations may be allowed
on the face of the sign or device; and if the sign or device is tight against a
fire-resistive wall, with no openings back of the sign or device, the framework
may be of wood; providing that, all wood members shall have at least two coats
of lead and oil paint.
   (B)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs of cloth or other material on wood
frames may be permitted or approved by the Building Official for a combined
period not exceeding 30 days in any one calendar year for any one place of
business in the city.
   (C)   Advertising signs. Every billboard, structure or device used for the
display of advertising matter shall be constructed and maintained in a safe and
substantial manner and shall, at all times, be kept in a neat and clean
condition with no loose paper hanging from the same or allowed to fall upon the
street or sidewalk and no paste or other materials shall be allowed to drop
upon sidewalk.
   (D)   Placing signs, and the like, on poles, trees, city property. No person
shall place or maintain any poster, placard, sign or advertising device of any
character upon any land, structure, pole, tree or in any public place without
obtaining the written consent of the owner of the property, or in case the
property is owned by the city, the written consent of the city department
having charge of the property. In no case shall matter of an offensive nature
be displayed.
   (E)   Signs not to block exits, windows or fire escapes. No signs or
advertising device of any character shall be erected or constructed upon any
fire escape or in such manner as to obstruct or impede ingress or egress to or
from any exit, window or door of any building or structure.
   (F)   Wind pressure. All ground sign boards, roof signs and projecting signs
shall be designed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than 30 pounds per
square foot of surface subject to such pressure.
   (G)   Electrical signs to be approved. Every electrical sign or advertising
device shall bear the label Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., but the label
shall not obligate the Building Official to approve same.
   (H)   List of signs to be furnished. Every person licensed for outdoor
advertising shall file with the Building Inspector at the time the license is
obtained, a completed list of all signs, billboards or advertising devices
controlled by the licensee together with locations of same.
(1967 Code, § 18-10) Penalty, see §
10.99  
§ 157.03 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   No roof sign shall be placed on any building so as to prevent free
passage from one part of the roof to any other part thereof, or to interfere
with any openings and no such sign shall project beyond the edge of the roof.
There shall be a clear space beyond the roof and the lowest part of any roof
sign of not less than six feet and there shall be at least five feet clearance
between the vertical supports of any such sign. Every roof sign shall sit back
at least four feet from the face of any wall which faces a street, provided
that lighting reflectors of a type approved by the Building Official, may
extend not more than three feet beyond the building line and further provided,
that permission is granted to continue the maintenance of those reflectors not
extending not more than six feet over the building line on the signs existing
on May 3, 1948; provided, the reflectors are of a type approved by the Building
Official.
   (B)   Every roof sign shall be constructed entirely of steel, including
uprights, supports and bracing.
   (C)   All roof signs erected upon a building of nonfire-proof construction
shall bear directly upon masonry bearing walls, piers or approved columns.
   (D)   No roof sign shall exceed 31 feet in height above the roof.
   (E)   The limitations in respect to height and character of facing as set
forth in divisions (B) and (D) shall not apply in light or heavy industrial
zones as defined in the Waterbury Zoning Code.
(1967 Code, § 18-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.04 WALL SIGNS.
   Wall signs shall be attached to masonry walls in a manner approved by the
Department of Building, and if any part on the same is not tight against wall
space, the back shall be fire-stopped if required, in a manner approved by the
Building Official. No part of the sign or any accessory thereto shall project
in front of the building line, except that, if the face of the wall is
coincident with the building line, the sign may extend not more than 12 inches
beyond the line if placed ten feet above the sidewalk and three inches if
placed below the ten-foot level, and except that lighting reflectors of a type
approved by the Building Official may extend not more than three feet beyond
the building line, and; further provided that, permission is granted to
continue the maintenance of those reflectors now extending not more than six
feet over the building line on the signs existing on May 3, 1948; provided, the
lighting reflectors are of a type approved by the Building Official.
(1967 Code, § 18-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.05 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No projecting sign overhanging a public street or a public passageway
shall extend above the top of a cornice, parapet wall or wall, as the case may
be, nor in front of any building or structure except as provided in division
(B) of this section and as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No projecting sign shall extend more than six feet beyond the face of
the building or structure, regardless of the location of the building line, and
shall not be less than ten feet in the clear above the level of the sidewalk
beneath.
(1967 Code, § 18-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.06 MARQUEES.
   (A)   No marquee or part thereof shall extend beyond the curb line. No
marquee which extends in front of the building line shall have thereon any
words or advertising other than the name of the building or of a business
carried on in the building, over the entrance of which the marquee is erected,
except that a marquee over the entrance of a theater or other place of
amusement may have thereon the name of the performance and of the performers;
providing that, no letters shall exceed 24 inches in height.
   (B)   No marquee shall have a difference in elevation between its lowest
point and its highest point in excess of six feet and six inches, except in
front of a theater where height may be nine feet not including necessary
supporting brackets, tie rods or similar parts. No marquee shall be less than
ten feet in the clear above the level of any sidewalk subject to general public
use.
   (C)   All marquees shall be constructed entirely of metal and glass or other
incombustible material including all supports and braces for the same, shall be
properly drained, shall be supported entirely from the building and shall meet
the approval of the Building Official.
(1967 Code, § 18-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.07 UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Should any sign, marquee or advertising device become insecure or otherwise
unsafe in the opinion of the Building Official, the person maintaining the same
and the owner of the property where the sign is located, shall upon the receipt
of a written notice or order from the Building Official immediately take such
action as may be required by the Building Official for the correction of any
such condition.
(1967 Code, § 18-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 157.20 INSURANCE POLICY REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall be granted a license to engage in the business of sign
manufacturing for advertising purposes, by erecting, maintaining or servicing
ground signs, roof signs, wall signs, projecting or marquee signs as aforesaid
unless the person shall, at his own expense, provide and furnish to the
Building Inspector a certificate of public liability insurance stating that a
public liability insurance policy has been issued to them by an insurance
company approved by the Insurance Commissioner of the state and registered and
authorized to do business in the state. The insurance policy shall contain a
five-day written notice requirement to the city before it can be cancelled, and
shall be for a coverage for personal injuries of not less than $20,000 for one
person and $40,000 for each accident, and for property damage of not less than
$5,000. The policy shall be so written that bodily injuries and property damage
caused by the negligence of the insured in erecting, maintaining or servicing
the signs aforesaid. The insurance policy and the certificate aforesaid issued
thereon shall be approved as to form by the corporation counsel and the
certificate shall be filed in the office of the Building Official.
(1967 Code, § 18-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.21 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain a marquee which extends in front of
an established building line, or a sign or advertising device of any character,
except as hereinafter provided, which extends in front of an established
building line (except signs which are parallel to and against the face of a
wall, which signs may extend not more than three inches in front of the wall
providing no part of the sign shall be illuminated or used for sign purposes
except the front or face thereof without first obtaining a permit to maintain
the same from the Building Official). No marquee, sign or other advertising
device requiring a permit shall be maintained more than ten days after the
permit has expired or been revoked.
   (B)   All signs or advertising which are to be attached to or erected upon a
building or structure and all electrical signs or electrical advertising
devices shall require permits.
(1967 Code, §§ 18-5, 18-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.22 TERM.
   All permits shall expire by limitation four months from date of issuance and
may be extended only on authority of Building Official upon evidence of
justification.
(1967 Code, § 18-7)
§ 157.23 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring any permit required by this chapter shall file an
application therefor on a form furnished by the Building Official. The
application shall be made by the owner or lessee. There shall be filed with the
application plans in duplicate showing clearly and fully all dimensions, kind
and quality of materials, method of construction, location of sign, marquee or
structure in relation to building or property lines and such other information
as may be required by the Building Official.
(1967 Code, § 18-8)
§ 157.24 FEES.
   There shall be permit fees for the following signs: Roof sign boards,
nonelectrical wall signs, electrical wall signs or electrical signs, projecting
signs, marquees, temporary signs, billboard signs. The fees for the permits
shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges attached to the annual
budget of the city, pursuant to §
41.11 of the code.
(1967 Code, § 18-9) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971; Ord. passed 5-9-1977; Ord. passed 5-
19-2003)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.35 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official, acting by himself or through his inspectors, and
assistants, shall enforce the terms of this chapter, but no oversight or
dereliction of duty on the part of the Building Official or his subordinates
shall legalize any action in conformity therewith.
(1967 Code, § 18-2)
§ 157.36 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Any person who shall feel aggrieved by any act or order of the
Building Official pertaining to this chapter, shall have a right to an appeal
to the Board of Aldermen within ten days from the date of the notice to him, by
mail, of the decision of the Building Official by filing his appeal with the
City Clerk.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen shall hold a hearing concerning the appeal by
notifying the person who appeals, by mail addressed to his present or last
known address, stating the time and place where the appeal shall be heard.
   (C)   The Board of Aldermen shall have the power to annul, amend, modify or
affirm the order of the Building Official.
(1967 Code, § 18-3)
§ 157.37 NOTICE TO OWNER TO REMOVE ILLEGAL SIGNS.
   Any sign, marquee or advertising device erected, constructed or maintained
in violation of any requirement of this chapter shall be removed within five
days after receipt, by the person responsible for the violation and to the
owner of the property where the sign, marquee or advertising device is located,
on a written order from the Building Official requiring the action.
(1967 Code, § 18-15)
§ 157.38 REMOVAL OF SIGNS BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   Should any person or the owner of property where the sign, marquee or
advertising device is located fail or refuse to comply with the requirements of
this chapter after proper notification, the Building Official may remove any
sign, marquee or advertising device affected or correct any violation at the
expense of the person or from the owner of the property where the sign, marquee
or advertising device is located.
(1967 Code, § 18-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
158.01   Plan Commission approval required
   
158.02   Lots not to be sold until subdivision approved
Charter reference:
   Planning, see Charter § 6C-4
§ 158.01 PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No plan of a subdivision of land in the city shall be filed or recorded
until it shall have been approved by the City Plan Commission as conforming to
its regulations governing the subdivision of land and until an entry of the
approval shall have been subscribed on the plan by the chairman or secretary of
the City Plan Commission.
(1967 Code, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Charter reference:
   City Planning Commission, see Charter § 6C-4
Statutory reference:
   Subdivision of land, see Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 8-25 through 8-30
§ 158.02 LOTS NOT TO BE SOLD UNTIL SUBDIVISION APPROVED.
   In any subdivision of land, as defined by the General Statutes, no lot or
parcel of land in the subdivision shall be sold until approval of the
subdivision has been received from the City Plan Commission and the Board of
Aldermen and the subdivision plat has been duly recorded in the office of the
City Clerk.
(1967 Code, § 21-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 159: ZONING
Section
   
159.01   Exemption of municipal property from the zoning regulations
   
159.02   Codification of the zoning regulations
   
159.03   Conflicting regulations
   
159.04   Maintenance of the zoning map
§ 159.01 EXEMPTION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY FROM THE ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Municipal property owned by the city and its municipal agencies shall be
exempt from the regulations prescribed by the Zoning Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
§ 159.02 CODIFICATION OF THE ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The City Planner shall be responsible for the codification of the zoning
regulations. A copy of the zoning regulations shall be filed in the office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
§ 159.03 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   When any provision of the city zoning regulations conflicts with
requirements, restrictions or limitations imposed or required by the provisions
of any ordinance, statute or law, the most restrictive provision shall apply
and govern, to the extent allowed by law.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
§ 159.04 MAINTENANCE OF THE ZONING MAP.
   The City Engineer shall be responsible for the maintenance of the zoning
map. A copy of zoning map shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 160: LANDLORD REGISTRATION
Section
   
160.01   Title
   
160.02   Legislative authority
   
160.03   Findings and purpose
   
160.04   Definitions
   
160.05   Applicability
   
160.06   Required registration
 
   
160.99   Penalty
§ 160.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Landlord
Registration Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.02 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
47a-6a, 47a-6b, and 7-148.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.03 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The Board of Aldermen of City of Waterbury finds that the identification and
knowledge of the whereabouts of nonresident owners of residential rental
housing units located within the City of Waterbury is in the best interest of
the community and will promote the public health, welfare, and safety of the
residents of Waterbury. Accordingly, by enacting this chapter, the City of
Waterbury seeks to better protect, preserve and promote the health, safety,
welfare and quality of life of its residents by requiring nonresident owners of
residential rental housing units located within Waterbury to comply with this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions found in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 47a-6a(a), as amended from time
to time, shall apply to the terms of this chapter. In addition to such
statutory definitions, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONRESIDENT OWNER. Any owner of the property at an address, as defined
herein, who does not reside at such address.
   RESIDENT OWNER. Any owner of the property at an address, as defined herein,
who currently resides at such property, which is owned by her or him.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk of the City of Waterbury.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all occupied or vacant residential rental real
property within the City of Waterbury. Such property that is owned by the State
of Connecticut shall be exempt, unless the property is occupied or operated by
an entity leasing real property from the State of Connecticut.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.06 REQUIRED REGISTRATION.
   (A)   By October 1, 2012, any nonresident owner of an existing occupied or
vacant residential rental real property or dwelling unit shall be required to
file, and to maintain on file, with the Town Clerk the current residential
address of the nonresident owner of such property, if the owner is an
individual. If a nonresident owner is a corporation, partnership, trust or
other legally recognized entity then the nonresident owner shall be required to
file, and to maintain on file, with the Town Clerk the current residential
address of the agent in charge of the property or dwelling unit, hereinafter
referred to as the AGENT IN CHARGE .
   (B)   If the residential address of a nonresident owner or agent in charge
filed with the Town Clerk in accordance division (A) above changes for any
reason, the nonresident owner shall be required to file notice of the new
residential address of the nonresident owner or agent in charge with the Town
Clerk not more than 30 days after the date that the address change occurred.
   (C)   On or after October 2, 2012 each such nonresident owner shall pay a
fee of $25 for each initial registration and a maximum registration fee for all
properties per nonresident owner of $50. Each notice of residential address
change shall be $10 with a maximum change of address fee being $20 per
nonresident owner.
   (D)   If any nonresident owner fails to maintain on file an address as
required by this section, the address to which the city mails property tax
bills for the residential rental property or dwelling unit shall be deemed to
be the nonresident owner's current address. Such address may be used for
compliance with the provisions of division (E) below.
   (E)   Proof of service of state or municipal orders relating to maintenance
of any such residential rental real property or dwelling unit or compliance
with state law and local codes concerning such residential rental real property
directed to the nonresident owner or agent in charge at the address on file
with the Town Clerk, or to the address deemed to be the current address of the
nonresident owner or agent in charge pursuant to division (D) above, shall be
sufficient proof of service of notice of such orders in any subsequent criminal
or civil action against the nonresident owner or agent in charge for failure to
comply with the orders.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
to have violated the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 47a-6a and shall have
committed an infraction.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
§ 160.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   As provided in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 47a-6a and 47a-6b, any nonresident
owner who violates any provision of this chapter shall be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than $250 for the first violation and not more than $1,000
for any subsequent violation.
   (B)   The City of Waterbury shall send notice of the assessment to the
nonresident owner or agent in charge of the property that is the subject of the
violation.
   (C)   Any person who is assessed a civil penalty pursuant to this section
may appeal therefrom to the Superior Court. An appeal shall be instituted not
later than 30 days after the mailing of notice of such assessment by filing a
petition to reopen assessment, together with an entry fee in an amount equal to
the entry fee for a small claims case pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-259, at
the Superior Court facility designated by the Chief Court Administrator, which
shall entitle such person to a hearing in accordance with the rules of the
judges of the Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 4-23-2012)
CHAPTER 161: DONATION BINS
Section
   
161.01   Definitions
   
161.02   Permits
   
161.03   Renewal of permits
   
161.04   Requirements for operation and maintenance
   
161.05   Revocation of permit; removal of donation bins; liability
   
161.06   Penalty; citation
   
161.07   Citation appeal procedure
   
161.08   Exception
§ 161.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DONATION BIN. Any unattended container, receptacle, or similar device that
is located on any property within the City of Waterbury that is used for
soliciting and collecting donations of clothing, home-goods, furniture or other
salvageable personal property. This term does not include recycle bins for the
collection of materials governed by other sections of this code or any
unattended donation bin located within an enclosed building.
   OPERATOR. The person or entity which utilizes or maintains donation bin(s)
to solicit donations of salvageable personal property.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or entity which owns the real property where the
donation bin is located.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 161.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter and a public nuisance for any
property owner or other person or entity to place, operate, maintain or allow a
donation bin on real property unless the property owner first obtains a permit
pursuant to this chapter and the donation bin is placed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The permit application for donation bins shall be made on a form
provided by the Department of Inspections and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number(s) and e-mail address (if
applicable) of the owner of the property upon which the donation bin is
proposed to be located;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number(s), e-mail address and website (if
applicable) of the entity which shall own, place, operate and maintain such
donation bin; and
      (3)   A drawing sufficient to indicate the proposed location of the
donation bin on the property owner’s real property and the size of the donation
bin in measurement of height, width and length.
      (4)   The permit application must be signed by the real property owner or
by someone duly authorized by the real property owner indicating consent to
allow placement of a donation bin.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by any non-refundable fee for
each donation bin set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and
rewards attached to the annual budget of the City of Waterbury pursuant to §
41.11 of this code. The City of Waterbury shall be exempt from payment of any
application fee.
   (D)   Applications shall be filed with the Department of Inspections.
   (E)   Within 15 business days of receiving a completed permit application
with any required non-refundable fee, the Building Official shall issue a
permit or deny issuance of a permit. If a permit is denied the Building
Official shall state, in writing, the specific reasons for denial.
   (F)   The Building Official shall not issue a permit if:
      (1)   The applicant has not submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by any applicable fee; and
      (2)   The proposed location of the donation bin on the property owner’s
real property does not comply with all applicable laws, codes and ordinances;
including compliance with the requirements of this chapter as determined by the
City Planning, Zoning and Inland Wetlands Department.
   (G)   A permit shall be valid until February 1st of the year following the
date of issuance or renewal.
   (H)   Permits for placement of donation bins are not transferable,
assignable and cannot be conveyed to another person or entity.
   (I)   Prior to the expiration of the permit, the permittee may voluntarily
cancel the permit by notifying the Department of Inspections in writing of the
intent to cancel the permit. The permit shall then become void upon receipt of
such notice to Department of Inspections. No part of the permit fee is
refundable or pro-rated.
   (J)   The Building Official reserves the right to revoke any permit.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
161.06
§ 161.03 RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A property owner may apply for permit renewal by submitting to the
Department of Inspections, at least 30 days before the expiration of the
permit, a renewal application and any non-refundable renewal fee set forth in
the schedule of fees, charges, penalties and rewards attached to the annual
budget of the City of Waterbury pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   The Department of Inspections shall either approve or deny the renewal
of a permit within 15 business days of receipt of the complete renewal
application and payment of any required renewal fee.
   (C)   The Department of Inspections shall approve the renewal of a permit if
he or she finds that no circumstances existed during the term of the permit,
existed at the time of submission of an application for renewal, or existed at
any time during the review of the application for renewal that are inconsistent
with any finding required for approval of a new permit as specified in §
161.02 or that would justify the revocation of the permit as specified in §
161.05.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 161.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An operator shall operate and maintain or cause to be operated and
maintained all donation bins located in the City of Waterbury as follows:
      (1)   Donation bins shall be maintained in good condition and appearance
with no structural damage, holes, or visible rust, and shall be free of
graffiti;
      (2)   Donation bins shall be locked or otherwise secured to prevent
public access to items deposited in the donation bin;
      (3)   Donation bins shall be serviced and emptied as needed, but at least
every 30 days;
      (4)   Donation bins shall contain the following contact information in
two inch type visible from the front of each donation bin: the name, address,
e-mail, and phone number of both the property owner and operator; and
      (5)   The front of each donation bin shall display a copy of a valid
permit issued by the Department of Inspections for operation of the donation
bin.
   (B)   The operator shall maintain or cause to be maintained the area
surrounding the donation bin(s) free of any junk, debris or other material and
shall be responsible to the extent provided by law for the cost to abate any
violation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, it is unlawful for
any person or entity to place a donation bin in any residential zone.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, it is unlawful to
locate any donation bin less than 400 feet from any other unattended donation
bin.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, it is unlawful to
locate more than one donation bin on each parcel of real property.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, it is unlawful to
locate any donation bin on required parking spaces or within vehicle travel
lanes.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, it is unlawful to
locate any donation bin on any City of Waterbury-owned property without
authorization.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
161.06
§ 161.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; REMOVAL OF DONATION BINS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Department of Inspections shall have the right for cause to revoke
any permit issued hereunder. Any of the grounds upon which he or she may refuse
to issue an initial permit shall also constitute grounds for such revocation.
In addition, the failure of the property owner or operator to comply with the
provisions of this chapter or other provisions of this code or other law shall
also constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.
   (B)   The Department of Inspections shall provide a written notification to
the property owner and operator stating the specific grounds for revocation.
   (C)   Upon revocation, the donation bin shall be removed from the property
owner’s real property within ten days and if not removed within this time
period, the City of Waterbury may remove, store and dispose of the donation bin
at the expense of the operator. Upon revocation, a property owner shall be
prohibited from applying for a permit for a period of one year.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a public nuisance
subject to abatement by the City of Waterbury.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
161.06
§ 161.06 PENALTY; CITATION.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to monetary penalties as set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
penalties and rewards attached to the annual budget of the City of Waterbury
pursuant to §
41.11 of this code.
   (B)   The City of Waterbury may enforce the violation of this chapter by the
issuance of a citation.
   (C)   The City of Waterbury shall issue a written warning providing notice
of the specific violation before issuing a citation. Said notice shall specify
that the noncompliant person or entity has five days from the date notice was
mailed to correct the violation, or the City of Waterbury will issue a
citation.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 161.07 CITATION APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person or entity issued a citation for violation of this chapter may
appeal said citation pursuant to §
12.03 of this code.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
§ 161.08 EXCEPTION.
   Except for the provisions of §§
161.01,
161.04(A)(1) through (4),
161.04(B),
161.06 and
161.07, this chapter shall not apply to any donation bin that is located on a
premises that is owned or leased by any religious, charitable or eleemosynary
organization.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
CHAPTER 162: LAND BANK
Section
   
162.01   Title
   
162.02   Legislative authority
   
162.03   Findings and purpose
   
162.04   Definitions
   
162.05   Board of Directors
   
162.06   Land Bank employees
   
162.07   Land Bank powers
   
162.08   Acquisition of property
   
162.09   Inventory of property
§ 162.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be referred to as, the “Land Bank
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.02 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148(c)(7) and
Public Act No. 19-175, An Act Concerning the Creation of Land Bank Authorities
(hereinafter referred to as the “Land Bank Act”) and Public Act No. 19-92, An
Act Concerning Abandoned and Blighted Property Receivership (hereinafter
referred to as the “Abandoned and Blighted Property Act”).
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.03 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It has been determined that blighted, vacant, abandoned, and
distressed properties are costly and present a danger to the health and safety
of residents, and further, they contribute to the decline of neighborhoods and
adversely affect the prosperity of the city.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the Waterbury Land Bank
Authority, Inc., hereinafter the “Land Bank Authority” or “Land Bank”, that
will use available resources to facilitate the efficient disposition of real
property (as defined in the Land Bank Act) within the city, to return blighted,
vacant, abandoned, or distressed property to productive use.
   (C)   The Land Bank will acquire, maintain and dispose of real property, as
approved by The Waterbury Land Bank Authority, Inc.’s Board of Directors. The
Land Bank will operate to facilitate the rehabilitation, revitalization, and
redevelopment of properties to remedy and reverse urban decay within the city.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The person or group of persons having the authority to
appoint Directors for the Board of Directors as prescribed in the bylaws or
this chapter.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. Board of Aldermen of the city.
   BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors for The Waterbury Land Bank
Authority, Inc.
   LAND BANK AUTHORITY. The Waterbury Land Bank Authority, Inc., a Connecticut
nonstock corporation established for the purposes of acquiring, maintaining,
and disposing of real property within the city.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Waterbury, Connecticut.
   REAL PROPERTY. As defined in the Land Bank Act, any land, subterranean or
subsurface rights, structures, any and all easements, air rights and franchises
and every estate, right or interest therein, but does not include any
brownfield, as defined in § 32-760 of the Conn. Gen. Stat.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.05 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   All operations of the Land Bank shall be governed by a Board of
Directors as provided herein.
   (B)   Number of Board Members. The Board of Directors shall consist of seven
Directors.
   (C)   Method of appointment. Appointment of the Directors shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Four representatives appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of
the city;
      (2)   One representative appointed by the Democratic members of the Board
of Aldermen;
      (3)   One representative appointed by the Republican members of the Board
of Aldermen;
      (4)   One representative appointed by the agreement of the Democratic
members of the Board of Aldermen and the Republican members of the Board of
Alderman.
   (D)   Initial Board of Directors. The initial Directors shall be appointed
by the incorporator and shall be as listed in the ordinance passed 1-10-2022:
   (E)   Terms of Board Members. The initial Board of Directors shall serve
three year terms. Thereafter, the Board of Directors shall be a staggered
board, divided into three groups; there shall be three directorships with three
year terms; three directorships with two year terms and one directorship with a
one year term. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of his or
her term, or until his or her successor has been appointed and has qualified,
whichever is later.
   (F)   Qualifications. To the greatest extent possible, directors shall
include persons who work in the city, are residents of the city, or who work
for an organization that has a strong presence in the city. All members
appointed to the Board shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest,
experience or education in housing, land use or urban planning, real estate,
community development, finance or related areas. A director may be an employee
of the city, but no director shall also simultaneously be an elected official
or public officer. For purposes of this section, “public officer” shall mean a
person who is elected to a municipal office.
   (G)   Removal. A director may be removed from office at any time by the
appointing authority that appointed such director.
   (H)   Vacancies. Any vacancy in the Board of Directors arising at any time
and from any cause, may be filled for the unexpired term by the appointing
authority that appointed such director. Each director so appointed shall hold
office until the expiration of the unexpired term of his or her predecessor, or
until his or her successor is appointed, whichever is later.
   (I)   Compensation. Directors shall serve without compensation.
   (J)   Officers. The Board of Directors shall annually elect by a majority
vote of the Directors; a chairperson, vice chairperson, secretary, treasurer
and such other officers as the Board may determine. The officers shall be
members of the Board of Directors. The meetings of the Board of Directors shall
be open to the public except as may be permitted to be closed or held in
executive session pursuant to Connecticut’s Freedom of Information Act, Title
1, Chapter 14 of the Connecticut General Statutes as the same may be amended
from time to time.
   (K)   Meetings of the Board. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors
shall be held in accordance with a schedule adopted by the Board. Special
meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the
Chairperson or by a petition of a majority of the total membership of the
Board.
   (L)   Quorum. A majority of the total membership of the Board of Directors
shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any
one or more director(s) may participate in any meeting of the Board of
Directors through the use of telephone or similar communications equipment,
provided each director at the meeting can hear each other director
participating in the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by the Land Bank
Act, this chapter, the Land Bank Authority bylaws, or by law, the act of a
majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present at
the time shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.06 LAND BANK EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees; services. The Land Bank may employ or otherwise contract
for the services of any staff deemed necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Land Bank. Such staff may be employed as employees of
the Land Bank, or the services of such staff may be retained pursuant to
contracts with any public or private entity.
   (B)   Executive Director. The Board of Directors may select an Executive
Director. An Executive Director selected shall administer the Land Bank in
accordance with the operating budget adopted by the Board of Directors, general
policy guidelines established by the Board of Directors, and other applicable
governmental procedures and policies.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.07 LAND BANK POWERS.
   The Land Bank shall have all the powers and duties provided in the Land Bank
Act, as it may be amended by the Connecticut General Assembly from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.08 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Land Bank may, on terms and conditions and in a manner deemed
proper by the Board of Directors, acquire any real property or interest thereof
by gift, devise, transfer, exchange, foreclosure, purchase or other means.
   (B)   The Land Bank shall hold in its own name any real property or interest
thereof so acquired.
   (C)   The Land Bank shall only acquire real property or interest thereof
located within the municipality.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 162.09 INVENTORY OF PROPERTY.
   The Land Bank shall maintain and make available for public inspection an
inventory of any property held by the Land Bank.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Connecticut General Statutes
References to 1967 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CONNECTICUT GENERAL STATUTES
Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites Code Section
Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites   Code Section
1-1                      40.01
1-25                     30.01
1-79(e)                  36.19
1-110 et seq.            35.115
1-210(b)                 36.18
4-124i - 4-124p          31.235
7-101a                   36.20
7-105                    30.01
                         12.02,
7-148                    150.48,
                         151.01 ,
                         160.02
7-148b                   31.010,
                         100.99
7-148(c)(3)              Ch. 98
7-148(c)(4)(B)           94.50
7-148(c)(4)(H)           Ch. 50
7-148(c)(6)(C)(v)        99.55
7-148(c)(7)              162.02,
                         153.01
7-148(c)(7)(A)(vii)      Ch. 51
7-148(c)(7)(B)           Ch. 70
7-148(c)(7)(D)(ii)       92.03
7-148(c)(7)(H)(iii)      Ch. 113
7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv)       150.61 ,
                         150.65
7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv)(a)    150.65
7-148(c)(10)             12.01
7-148(c)(10)(A)          10.99
7-148(c)(10)(F)          150.08
7-152b                   70.63
7-152c                   92.31 ,
                         150.65
7-169                    Ch. 115,
                         115.01
7-169(i)                 115.05
7-169(k)                 115.06
7-170 through 7-186      114.01
7-246                    51.85,
                         51.89
                         51.89,
7-255                    51.95,
                         51.97
7-255 et seq.            51.87
7-282b                   91.03
7-324                    40.01
7-330                    40.01
7-339a to 7-3391         40.10
7-339k                   40.09
7-374c                   35.041
7-465                    36.20
8-8                      131.17,
                         153.39
8-24                     38.069
8-25 through 8-30        158.01
8-169b(c)                31.269,
                         31.270
8-169q et seq.           31.270
8-188                    31.269,
                         31.281
8-215                    32.16
8-216                    32.16
8-216b                   31.269,
                         31.270
9-190                    30.07
10-155f                  30.08
12-65b                   31.269,
                         31.270
12-81                    32.30
12-81(7) to (16)         32.18
12-81(56)                32.18
12-81(59)                152.06
12-81(60)                152.06
12-81b                   32.18
12-123                   32.15
12-129b                  51.97
12-129n                  51.97
12-129n(2)               51.97
12-144                   32.17
12-144a                  32.17
12-170aa                 51.97
12-180                   32.15
13a-149                  99.56
14-1                     100.01,
                         130.01
14-1(46)                 100.01
14-1(47)                 100.01
14-1(53)                 97.02
14-12(a)                 12.03
14-33                    70.63,
                         70.64
14-80a                   97.06
14-150                   70.65,
                         90.07
14-253a                  70.31
14-297(6)                70.01
14-379                   100.01
14-379 - 14-390          100.99
16-1                     151.03
19a-36                   131.45
19a-37                   131.45
19a-109                  154.069
19a-220                  131.45
19a-222                  96.003
19a-229                  122.22,
                         122.23
19a-230                  131.45
21-1                     113.01
21-1 through 21-5a       Ch. 113
21-2                     113.01
21-3                     113.02
21-27 through 21-35      Ch. 118
21-39 et seq.            121.01
21-39 through 21-45      121.02
21-43                    121.06
21a-12                   94.01
21a-240                  117.20,
                         117.39
21a-242                  117.20
22-3(b)                  96.141
22-127 et seq.           96.055
22-167                   96.055
22-339 et seq.           92.20
22-342                   92.22
22-399b                  92.22
22a-220                  50.21
22a-220(b)               50.23
22a-220(g)               50.21
22a-241b                 50.23
22a-241i                 50.99
22a-250a                 131.16
22a-430                  51.74,
                         51.76
27-103                   99.06
28-7(b)                  33.02
28-1 through 28-31       33.01
29-252                   150.01
29-252-1d                150.63
29-260                   150.63
29-292 through 29-370    94.01
29-329                   150.30
29-356 through 29-366    94.04
29-358                   94.04
29-404 through 29-408    150.08
29-402(c)                150.08
29-406(b)                150.08
29-407                   150.08
30-1                     130.01
30-1(3)                  98.02
30-91                    112.01
31-22m                   34.17
32-9s                    152.06
32-70                    31.269
32-70 et seq.            31.270,
                         152.02
32-224                   31.269,
                         31.281
32-760                   162.04
33-182a                  38.002
42-110b                  Ch. 111
Title 46a                93.03
46b-38aa                 35.035
46b-38kk                 35.035
47-68a et seq.           50.04,
                         50.20
                         160.02 ,
47a-6a                   160.06 ,
                         160.99
47a-6a(a)                160.04
47a-6b                   160.02 ,
                         160.99
47a-56 through 47a-56i   154.002
50-9                     34.01
50-10 through 50-14      Ch. 34,
                         34.01
51-56a(b)                70.31
                         90.99,
                         98.99,
51-181c(d)               99.99,
                         130.99,
                         131.99,
                         132.99
52.180                   92.31
52-191                   131.16
52-259                   160.04
53a-27                   150.65
53a-115 through 53a-117a 98.16,
                         98.31
Chapter 98               153.38
Chapter 246              100.01
Chapter 333              154.001
Chapter 386              122.02
Chapter 387              122.02
Chapter 435              92.22,
                         92.99
Chapter 568              35.035
Chapter 859              Ch. 34
                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1967 CODE
1967 Code 2010 Code
1967 Code         2010 Code
1-2               10.05
1-3               10.13
                  10.99,
                  51.99,
                  70.99,
                  93.99,
1-8               96.999,
                  98.99,
                  99.99,
                  130.99,
                  150.99
1-9               11.01
2-1               30.01
2-2               30.01
2-3               30.02
2-4               30.03
2-5               30.03
2-6               30.03
2-7               30.04
2-8               30.04
2-9               30.05
2-10              30.06
2-11              30.06
2-12              30.06
2-12.1            30.07
2-12.2            30.08
2-13              32.01
2-14              32.02
2-15              32.15
2-16              32.15
2-16.1            32.16
2-16.2            32.17
2-16.3            32.18
2-37              33.01
2-37.1            33.02
2-37.2            33.03
2-37.3            33.04
2-47              93.01
2-47.1            93.02
2-48              93.03
2-48(t)           93.99
2-48.1            93.04
2-70              30.20
2-71              30.21
2-72              30.22
2A-1              91.01
2A-2              91.02
2A-3              91.03
2A-4              91.99
2A-4(e)           91.05
2A-5              91.04
3-1               113.01
3-2               113.02
3-3               113.03
3-4               111.01
3-5               111.02
3-6               111.03
3-7               111.04
3-8               116.01
3-9               116.03
3-10              116.04
3-11              116.05
3-12              116.06
3-13              116.07
3-14              116.08
3-15              116.09
3-16              116.10
3-17              116.11
3-18              116.12
3-19              116.13
3-20              116.02
3A-1              114.01
4-1               115.01
4-2               115.02
4-4               115.03
4-5               115.04
4-6               115.05
4-7               115.06
4-8               115.07
5-1               150.01
5-2               150.02
5-3               150.03
5-3.1             150.04
5-3.2             150.05
5-4               150.15
5-5               150.15
5-6               150.16
5-7               150.17
5-8.1             150.18,
                  150.99
5-9               150.30
5-10              150.31
5-11              150.32
5-12              150.33
5-14              150.45
5-15              150.46
5-16              150.47
5-17              150.48
6-1               151.01
6-2               151.02
6-3               151.03
6-4               151.04
6-5               151.05
6-6               151.06
6-7               151.06
6-8               151.06
6-10              151.06
6-11              151.07
6-12              151.07
6-13              151.08
6-14              151.09
6-15              151.10
6-16              151.11
6-17              151.12
6-18              151.12
6-19              151.12
6-20              151.13
6-21              151.13
6-22              151.13
6-23              151.14
6-24              151.15
6-25              151.99
7-1               94.01
7-2               94.01
7-3               94.02
7-4               94.53
7-5               94.50
7-6               94.51
7-7               94.51
7-8               94.52
7-12              94.53
7-13              94.05
7-14              94.06
7-15              94.07
7-16              94.20
7-17              94.21
7-18              94.22
7-19              94.23
7-20              94.22
7-21              94.24
7-22              94.25
7-23              94.26
7-24              94.27
7-25              94.28
7-26              94.28
7-27              94.29
7-28              94.30
7-29              94.31,
                  94.99
7-30              94.32
7-31              94.33
7-32              94.34
7-33              94.35
7-34              94.36
7-35              94.37
7-36              94.37
7-37              94.37
7-39              94.37
7-40              94.37
7-41              94.37
7-42              94.38
7-43              94.38
7-44              94.38
7-45              94.38
7-47              94.38
7-48              94.39
7-49              94.39
7-51              94.39
7-52              94.39
7-53              94.39
7-54              94.40
7-55              94.40
7-57              94.40
7-58              70.45
7-59              70.46
7-60              70.46
7-61              70.47
7-62              70.48,
                  70.99
7-63              70.49
7-64              70.50
8-1               96.001
8-1.1             96.002
8-1.2             96.004
8-2               96.021
8-3               96.022
8-4               96.023
8-5               96.023
8-6               96.024
8-7               96.025
8-8               96.025
8-9               96.026
8-10              96.040
8-11              96.040
8-12              96.041
8-13              96.041
8-14              96.041
8-15              96.042
8-16              96.043
8-17              96.044
8-18              50.01
8-18.1            50.02
8-19              50.03
8-20              50.04
8-21              50.04
8-22              50.04
8-23              50.05
8-24              50.06
8-25              50.99
8-26              50.08
8-26.1            50.07
8-27              95.01
8-28              95.02
8-29              95.03
8-30              95.04
8-31              95.05
8-32              95.06
8-33              95.07
8-34              95.08
8-35              95.09
8-36              95.10
8-37              95.11
8-38              95.12
8-39              95.99
8-40              95.13
8-41              95.14
8-42              95.15
8-44              95.16
8-56              50.20
8-57              50.21
8-58              50.22
8-59              50.23
8-60              50.99
8-71              50.35
8-72              50.36
8-73              50.37,
                  50.99
8-74              50.38,
                  50.99
9-1               154.001
9-2               154.160
9-3               154.161
9-4               154.162
9-5               154.162
9-6               154.163
9-7—9-11        154.164
9-12              154.165
9-13              154.002
9-14              154.015
9-15              154.016
9-16              154.017
9-17              154.018
9-18              154.019
9-19              154.020
9-20              154.021
9-21              154.022
9-22              154.023
9-23              154.024
9-24              154.025
9-25              154.035
9-26              154.036
9-27              154.036
9-28              154.037
9-29              154.038
9-30              154.039
9-31              154.040
9-32              154.050
9-33              154.051
9-34              154.052
9-35              154.053
9-36              154.054
9-37              154.055
9-38              154.065
9-39              154.066
9-40              154.066
9-41              154.067
9-42              154.068
9-43              154.069
9-44              154.070
9-45              154.070
9-46              154.071
9-47              154.072
9-48              154.085
9-49              154.086
9-50              154.087
9-51              154.088
9-52              154.089
9-53              154.090
9-54              154.091
9-55              154.091
9-56              154.105
9-57—9-61       154.106
9-62              154.107
9-63              154.108
9-64              154.109
9-65              154.110
9-66              154.111
9-67              154.112
9-68              154.113
9-69              154.114
9-70              154.114
9-71              154.125
9-72              154.126
9-73              154.127
9-74              154.128
9-75              154.129
9-76              154.130
9-77              154.131
10-1              110.01
10-2              110.02
10-3              99.04
10-4              51.41
10-5              94.04
10-6              94.54
                  51.08,
                  51.41,
10-7              52.02,
                  99.02,
                  99.04
                  51.08,
10-8              52.02,
                  99.02
10-9              110.03
10-10             110.03
10-11             110.04
10-12             110.05
10-13             110.06
10-14             110.07
10-15             110.11
10-16             110.08
10-17             110.09
10-18             110.10
10-19             110.12
11-1              70.01
11-2              70.15
11-2.1            70.16
11-4              70.18
11-5              70.19
11-6              70.02
11-7              70.60
11-8              70.61
11-9              70.62
11-10             70.03,
                  70.99
11-13             70.17
11-17             70.30
11-18             70.31
11-19             70.99
11-20             70.32
11-21             70.33
11-22(a)          70.34
11-22(c)          70.99
11A-1             90.01
11A-2             90.02
11A-3             90.03
11A-4             90.04
11A-5             90.05
11A-6             90.06
11A-7             90.07
11A-8             90.08
11A-9             90.09
11A-10            90.10
11A-11            90.11
11A-12            90.12
11A-13            90.13
11A-14            90.14
11A-15            90.15
11A-16            90.99
12-1              97.01
12-2              97.02
12-3              97.03
12-4              97.04
12-5              97.05
12-6              97.06
12-7              97.07
12-8              97.08
12-9              97.09,
                  97.99
13-1              112.01
13-3              94.03
13-6              52.19
13-7              94.04
13-8              94.04
13-9              130.04
13-10             130.05
13-11             34.01
13-12             99.30
13-13             130.03
13-14             92.03
13-15             130.01,
                  130.99
13-16             130.02,
                  130.99
14-1              98.01
14-2              98.03
14-3              98.08
14-4              98.09
14-5              98.10
14-6              98.10
14-7              98.10
14-8              98.10
14-9              98.11
14-10             98.12
14-11             98.13
14-12             98.13
14-13             98.14
14-14             98.15
14-15             98.16
14-16             98.17
14-17             98.18
14-18             98.19
14-19             98.30
14-20             98.31
14-21             98.02
14-22             98.05
14-23             98.10
14-24             98.06
14-25             98.04
14-26             98.99
14-27             98.07,
                  98.99
15-1              118.01
15-2              118.02
15-3              118.02
15-4              118.03
15-5              118.04
15-6              118.15
15-7              118.16
15-8              118.17
15-9              118.30
15-10             118.31
15-11             118.32
15-12             118.33
15-13             118.34
15-14             118.99
15-15             118.35
16-1              156.01
16-2              156.20
16-3              156.21
16-4              156.03
16-5              156.04
16-6              156.35
16-7              156.36
16-8              156.37
16-9              156.38
16-10             156.39
16-11             156.40
16-12             156.41
16-13             156.42
16-14             156.43
16-15             156.44
16-16             156.45
16-17             156.46
16-18             156.22
16-19             156.22
16-20             156.05
16-21             156.47
16-22             156.48
16-23             156.49
16-24             156.50
16-25             156.50
16-26             156.06
16-27             156.51
16-28             156.52
16-29             156.53
16-30             156.54
16-31             156.55
16-32             156.56
16-33             156.57
16-34             156.54
16-35             156.07
16-36             156.02
16-37             156.70
16-38             156.71
16-39             156.72
16-40             156.73
16-41             156.73
16-42             156.73
17-1              51.01
17-2              51.09,
                  51.99
17-3              51.02
17-4              51.03
17-5              51.04
17-6              51.05
17-7              51.06
17-8              51.07
17-9              51.07
17-10             51.07
17-21             51.20
17-22             51.20
17-23             51.21
17-24             51.22
17-25             51.23
17-26             51.24
17-27             51.25
17-28             51.26
17-36             51.40
17-37             51.41
17-38             51.42
17-39             51.43
17-40             51.44
17-41             51.45
17-42             51.46
17-43             51.47
17-44             51.48
17-45             51.49
17-46             51.50
17-47             51.51
17-48             51.52
17-56             51.65
17-57             51.66
17-58             51.67
17-59             51.68
17-60             51.69
17-61             51.70
17-62             51.71
17-63             51.72
17-64             51.73
17-65             51.74
17-66             51.74
17-67             51.75
17-68             51.76
17-69             51.77
17-70             51.78
18-1              157.01
18-2              157.35
18-3              157.36
18-4              157.20
18-5              157.21
18-6              157.21
18-7              157.22
18-8              157.23
18-9              157.24
18-10             157.02
18-11             157.03
18-12             157.04
18-13             157.05
18-14             157.06
18-15             157.37
18-16             157.07
18-17             157.38
19-1              99.01
19-2              99.55
19-2a             99.56
19-3              99.57
19-4              99.03
19-5              99.03
19-6              99.40
19-6.1            99.41,
                  99.99
19-7              99.42
19-8              99.04
19-9              99.05
19-10             99.05
19-11             99.06
19-15             99.07
19-16             99.08
19-17             99.09
19-18             99.10
19-19             99.11
19-20             99.11
19-21             99.12
19-22             99.12
19-23             99.13
19-24             99.14
19-25             99.14
19-26             99.14
19-27             99.15
19-28             99.15
19-29             99.16
19-30             99.17
19-31             99.17
19-32             99.18
19-33             99.18
19-34             99.19
19-35             99.20
19-36             99.21
19-37             99.21
19-38             99.22
19-39             99.24
19-40             99.23
19-41             99.25
19-42             99.26
19-43             99.27
19-44             99.28
19-45             99.29
19-46             99.70
19-47             99.71
19-48             99.71
19-49             99.72
19-50             99.73
19-51             99.74
19-52             99.75
20-1              52.15
20-2              52.16
20-3              52.16
20-4              52.17
20-5              52.18
20-6              52.19
20-7              52.20
20-8              52.21
20-9              52.22
20-10             52.01
20-11             155.01
20-12—20-14     31.005
21-1              158.01
21-2              158.02
21-21             152.01
21-22             152.02
21-23             152.03
21-24             152.04
21-25             152.05
21-26             152.06
21-27             152.06
21-28             152.07
21-29             152.08
Appendix A, § 1  96.005
Appendix A, § 2  96.020
Appendix A, § 3  96.003
Appendix A, § 4  96.055
Appendix A, § 5  96.055
Appendix A, § 6  96.055
Appendix A, § 7  96.056
Appendix A, § 8  96.056
Appendix A, § 9  96.056
Appendix A, § 10 96.057
Appendix A, § 11 96.058
Appendix A, § 12 96.058
Appendix A, § 13 96.058
Appendix A, § 14 96.059
Appendix A, § 15 96.060
Appendix A, § 16 96.061
Appendix A, § 17 96.062
Appendix A, § 18 96.063
Appendix A, § 19 96.063
Appendix A, § 20 96.063
Appendix A, § 21 96.063
Appendix A, § 22 96.075
Appendix A, § 23 96.076
Appendix A, § 24 96.077
Appendix A, § 25 96.078
Appendix A, § 26 96.079
Appendix A, § 27 96.080
Appendix A, § 28 96.081
Appendix A, § 29 96.082
Appendix A, § 30 96.082
Appendix A, § 31 96.082
Appendix A, § 32 96.083
Appendix A, § 33 96.084
Appendix A, § 34 96.085
Appendix A, § 35 96.086
Appendix A, § 36 96.087
Appendix A, § 37 96.088
Appendix A, § 38 96.088
Appendix A, § 39 96.089
Appendix A, § 40 96.090
Appendix A, § 41 96.091
Appendix A, § 42 96.092
Appendix A, § 43 96.092
Appendix A, § 44 96.999
Appendix A, § 45 96.120
Appendix A, § 46 96.120
Appendix A, § 47 96.120
Appendix A, § 48 96.120
Appendix A, § 49 96.121
Appendix A, § 50 96.122
Appendix A, § 51 96.122
Appendix A, § 52 96.123
Appendix A, § 53 96.124
Appendix A, § 54 96.124
Appendix A, § 55 96.124
Appendix A, § 56 96.125
Appendix A, § 57 92.04
Appendix A, § 58 92.05
Appendix A, § 59 96.126
Appendix A, § 60 96.126
Appendix A, § 61 96.126
Appendix A, § 62 96.127
Appendix A, § 63 96.128
Appendix A, § 64 96.128
Appendix A, § 65 96.128
Appendix A, § 66 96.128
Appendix A, § 67 96.128
Appendix A, § 68 96.999
Appendix A, § 69 96.105
Appendix A, § 70 96.106
Appendix A, § 71 96.107
Appendix A, § 72 96.108
Appendix A, § 73 96.106
Appendix A, § 74 96.064
Appendix A, § 75 96.006
Appendix A, § 76 96.007
Appendix A, § 77 96.065
Appendix C, § 1-193.20
Appendix C, § 1-293.21
Appendix C, § 1-393.22
Appendix C, § 1-493.23
Appendix C, § 2-193.24
Appendix C, § 2-293.25
Appendix C, § 2-393.26
Appendix C, § 2-493.27
Appendix C, § 2-593.28
Appendix C, § 2-693.29
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     94.01,
-        4-19-1965   94.02,
                     94.50—
                     94.54
-        6-22-1966   94.06,
                     99.72
-        10-17-1966  154.002
                     151.01—
-        11-14-1966  151.15,
                     151.99
-        2-3-1969    94.20—
                     94.40
-        6-2-1969    150.04
-        9-3-1969    32.16
-        11-17-1969  32.16
-        12-21-1970  32.17
-        3-15-1971   70.16
                     30.20—
-        6-7-1971    30.22,
                     70.60,
                     70.61
-        6-7-1971    157.24
                     96.076,
                     99.30,
                     99.71,
                     110.04,
-        12-20-1971  110.06,
                     150.16,
                     150.17,
                     154.106,
                     156.21
-        4-12-1972   50.06
                     33.02,
-        5-7-1973    33.03,
                     33.04
                     70.45—
-        10-4-1973   70.50,
                     70.99
-        4-8-1974    96.002
-        7-8-1974    52.01
-        8-5-1974    96.004
-        10-21-1974  155.01
-        4-21-1975   150.02
-        7-21-1975   30.07
-        9-2-1975    70.60
-        9-22-1975   70.61
-        11-24-1975  30.08
-        4-27-1977   32.18
                     94.54,
-        5-9-1977    96.076,
                     116.07,
                     157.24
-        9-6-1977    93.20—
                     93.28
-        9-13-1978   118.15
-        10-25-1978  98.07,
                     98.99
-        11-24-1978  92.03
                     98.02—
-        8-6-1979    98.06,
                     98.10,
                     98.99
-        2-11-1980   150.18,
                     150.99
-        11-1-1980   70.03,
                     70.99
                     118.30—
-        6-22-1981   118.34,
                     118.99
-        12-7-1981   99.56
-        4-5-1982    118.34
                     70.16,
-        11-22-1982  150.16,
                     150.17
                     70.30—
-        12-6-1982   70.33,
                     70.99,
                     130.99
                     91.01—
-        3-3-1983    91.05,
                     91.99
                     95.01—
-        7-11-1983   95.16,
                     95.99
                     51.01—
                     51.09,
                     51.20—
                     51.26,
-        9-7-1983    51.40—
                     51.52,
                     51.65—
                     51.78,
                     51.99
                     90.01—
-        2-11-1985   90.15,
                     90.99
-        9-11-1985   130.02,
                     130.99
                     97.01—
-        7-7-1986    97.08,
                     97.99
                     97.01—
-        4-20-1987   97.08,
                     97.99
-        9-19-1988   114.01
-        10-11-1988  51.42
-        12-5-1988   70.99
                     70.34,
-        1-10-1989   70.99,
                     152.01—
                     152.08
-        2-6-1989    150.05
                     93.01—
-        3-10-1989   93.04,
                     93.99
-        4-11-1989   50.06,
                     50.07
                     51.08,
                     51.41,
-        5-22-1989   99.02,
                     99.04,
                     99.71,
                     99.73
-        7-15-1989   94.01
-        8-21-1989   50.07
                     50.35—
-        9-11-1989   50.38,
                     50.99
                     51.21,
                     96.006,
                     96.007,
-        11-30-1989  96.064,
                     96.075,
                     96.076,
                     96.105—
                     96.108
-        11-30-1989  154.106
-        2-9-1990    50.36
                     50.06,
-        2-20-1990   99.41,
                     99.99
-        3-19-1990   32.17
                     50.01,
                     50.04,
-        5-11-1992   50.06,
                     50.20—
                     50.23,
                     50.99
-        10-19-1992  96.065
-        2-23-1993   150.99
-        3-8-1993    96.076
                     117.01—
                     117.05,
                     117.15—
-        11-7-1994   117.23,
                     117.35—
                     117.39,
                     117.99
-        4-11-1995   117.99
                     119.01—
-        10-23-1995  119.04,
                     119.99
                     50.20,
-        2-9-1998    50.35,
                     50.37
-        2-23-1998   32.19
-        6-8-1998    96.120-999
-        8-24-1998   33.02,
                     33.04
-        1-13-1999   32.19
-        9-20-1999   51.85—
                     51.97 ; repeals 52.35—52.50
-        11-22-1999  92.01,
                     92.02
-        10-10-2000  92.01,
                     92.02
                     10.99,
                     90.99,
-        4-23-2001   98.99,
                     99.99,
                     130.99
-        10-9-2001   32.28
                     120.01,
-        10-23-2002  120.02,
                     120.99
-        12-9-2002   30.08
-        2-11-2003   32.40
                     35.001—
                     35.005,
                     35.020—
                     35.023,
                     36.01,
-        4-7-2003    36.02,
                     36.15—
                     36.20,
                     36.35—
                     36.41,
                     36.55
                     41.11,
                     51.21,
                     96.007,
                     96.064,
                     96.065,
                     96.076,
                     96.106,
-        5-19-2003   110.01,
                     110.02,
                     150.16,
                     150.17,
                     151.12,
                     154.106,
                     156.21,
                     157.24
                     39.001—
                     39.004,
                     39.020—
                     39.024,
                     39.040—
                     39.049,
-        8-11-2003   39.060—
                     39.066,
                     39.080—
                     39.085,
                     39.100—
                     39.103,
                     39.115—
                     39.117
                     37.001—
                     37.007,
                     37.020—
                     37.025,
                     37.040—
                     37.042,
                     37.055,
                     37.070—
                     37.074,
                     37.085—
-        12-22-2003  37.102,
                     37.115—
                     37.121,
                     37.135,
                     37.150,
                     37.165,
                     37.180,
                     37.195—
                     37.197,
                     37.210,
                     37.225,
                     37.226
-        3-15-2004   30.01
                     31.001—
                     31.007,
                     31.009,
                     31.020—
                     31.023,
                     31.040—
                     31.043,
                     31.060—
                     31.063,
                     31.080—
                     31.083,
                     31.100—
                     31.103,
-        4-20-2004   31.120—
                     31.123,
                     31.140—
                     31.143,
                     31.160—
                     31.166,
                     31.180—
                     31.182,
                     31.200,
                     31.215—
                     31.217,
                     31.230—
                     31.232,
                     31.251—
                     31.252
                     32.03,
                     32.15,
                     32.20—
                     32.27,
                     51.94,
-        5-24-2004   70.01,
                     70.04,
                     70.55,
                     70.61,
                     70.63—
                     70.68
                     98.18,
                     99.18,
                     131.01,
                     131.15—
-        9-20-2004   131.19,
                     131.30—
                     131.32,
                     131.45,
                     131.60
-        12-6-2004   31.004
-        3-7-2005    31.265—
                     31.270
                     37.071,
                     37.072,
                     37.074,
                     37.088,
-        3-7-2005    37.091—
                     37.093,
                     37.101,
                     37.120,
                     37.121,
                     37.150
-        4-12-2005   31.082
                     38.001,
                     38.002,
                     38.004,
                     38.005,
                     38.020—
                     38.032,
                     38.045—
                     38.052,
                     38.065—
                     38.073,
                     38.085,
                     38.086,
                     38.100—
                     38.102,
                     38.115—
-        6-20-2005   38.117,
                     38.130,
                     38.145—
                     38.147,
                     38.160—
                     38.166,
                     38.180,
                     38.181,
                     38.195,
                     38.196,
                     38.210—
                     38.213,
                     38.225—
                     38.231,
                     38.245—
                     38.247
-        11-21-2005  40.01—
                     40.10
                     31.103,
-        6-5-2006    31.123,
                     31.232
                     150.06,
-        6-5-2006    150.07,
                     159.01—
                     159.04
                     121.01—
-        8-6-2007    121.07,
                     121.99
-        6-9-2008    152.02—
                     152.06
                     122.01—
                     122.03,
-        9-8-2008    122.20—
                     122.25,
                     122.40—
                     122.58
-        10-20-2008  32.29
-        11-24-2008  96.105
-        3-9-2009    31.004
-        5-11-2009   31.008
-        5-11-2009   31.285,
                     31.286
-        5-26-2009   97.05,
                     97.99
-        6-8-2009    96.140—
                     96.148
-        8-24-2009   96.160—
                     96.166
                     153.01—
                     153.08,
                     153.20,
-        11-29-2010  153.21,
                     153.35—
                     153.39,
                     153.99
                     35.035—
                     35.041,
                     35.055—
                     35.057,
                     35.070—
-        1-24-2011   35.073,
                     35.085,
                     35.086,
                     35.100,
                     35.101,
                     35.115—
                     35.129
-        2-8-2011    37.099
-        2-21-2012   34.15—
                     34.22
-        2-21-2012   38.003,
                     38.087
                     38.002,
-        2-21-2012   38.033,
                     38.085
                     160.01 —
-        4-23-2012   160.06 ,
                     160.99
-        5-21-2012   31.265
-        7-23-2012   36.55
-        8-20-2012   32.16
-        8-20-2012   Repeals 112.02
-        10-9-2012   92.21
-        10-22-2012  150.60 —
                     150.66
                     37.001 ,
                     37.002 ,
                     37.023 ,
-        5-6-2013    37.096 ,
                     37.101,
                     38.002,
                     39.022
-        8-19-2013   34.17
                     10.99 ,
                     31.004 ,
                     39.064 ,
                     41.11 ,
                     50.06 ,
                     50.99,
                     51.42,
                     51.89,
                     51.92,
                     51.99,
                     70.16 ,
                     70.50 ,
                     70.55 ,
                     70.63 ,
                     70.65,
                     70.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.03,
                     91.99,
                     93.99,
                     94.54,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     96.006,
                     96.024,
                     96.040,
                     96.055,
                     96.076,
                     96.106,
-        8-19-2013   96.128,
                     96.148,
                     96.165,
                     96.999,
                     97.99,
                     98.99,
                     99.04,
                     99.15,
                     99.55,
                     99.71,
                     99.99,
                     113.02,
                     116.07,
                     117.99,
                     118.32,
                     118.99,
                     119.99,
                     120.99,
                     121.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.15,
                     131.16,
                     131.31,
                     131.32,
                     131.45,
                     131.99,
                     150.17,
                     150.99,
                     151.13,
                     153.99
-        9-23-2013   150.60 —
                     150.66
                     35.035,
-        3-24-2014   35.120,
                     35.127
-        5-5-2014    31.235—
                     31.240
-        5-20-2014   39.050
-        9-23-2014   37.021
-        4-20-2015   31.290
-        5-11-2015   12.01;
                     12.02
                     34.10,
-        5-11-2015   34.17—
                     34.20,
                     34.22
-        5-11-2015   161.01—
                     161.08
                     100.01,
-        6-8-2015    100.02,
                     100.99
-        2-22-2016   37.099
                     92.20—
-        7-8-2016    92.35,
                     92.99
-        2-6-2017    38.022
-        8-21-2017   37.099
                     132.01—
-        8-21-2017   132.04,
                     132.99
                     31.265—
-        5-20-2019   31.270,
                     31.280,
                     31.281
                     53.01—
-        8-20-2018   53.22,
                     53.99
-        9-23-2019   32.30
-        9-23-2019   150.08
-        4-5-2021    31.300—
                     31.302
-        8-16-2021   12.01—
                     12.03
-        3-9-2020    37.099
-        1-10-2022   162.01—
                     162.09
-        8-15-2022   37.071
-        9-6-2022    37.023
-        5-8-2023    31.010
                    
 
