BALTIC, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-4 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 294, passed 3-10-2022; and
Res. 2020-07, passed 10-13-2020
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code,” for which
designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, etc., see SDCL §
9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CITY. The City of Baltic, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Minnehaha County, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the municipality.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter that sets apart a group of sections
related by the subject matter of the heading. Not all chapters have
subchapters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except in cases where a different or additional penalty is imposed by this
code or by applicable statute, every violation of any of the provisions of this
code shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in the
county jail not longer than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each
day in which a violation of this code or other ordinance continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 244, passed 4-8-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE REGULATIONS
      
33.   TAXATION; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
34.   BOUNDARIES; WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Composition
   
30.02   Terms
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Compensation
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor, elected at large, and four
Aldermen, two to be elected from each ward.
(Prior Code, § 1.0201)
§ 30.02 TERMS.
   The terms of office of the Mayor and Aldermen shall be four years, or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1.0202)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   On the second Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. the City Council shall meet
at the City Hall or other designated place, to consider, take under advisement,
and act upon such business as may come before it. The Council may adjourn,
postpone, or otherwise reschedule the regular meeting. Special meetings may be
held at the call of the Mayor or by any two Council Members at any time, to
consider such matters as may be specified in the call for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.0203) (Ord. 283, passed 6-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of Council, see SDCL § 9-8-8
§ 30.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor and Aldermen are to be allowed compensation as set by resolution
or motion of the City Council. Compensation shall be paid annually unless
otherwise requested.
(Prior Code, § 1.0204)
CHAPTER 31: MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Appointment of officers
   
31.02   Salaries
   
31.03   Bond for Finance Officer
   
31.04   Employment policies
Cross-reference:
   Provisions concerning the Tree Board, see §
93.05
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the regular meeting of each May, there shall be appointed a Municipal
Finance Officer, Maintenance Superintendent, and such other officers as may be
provided by ordinance, to hold office until the appointment and qualification
of successors. All such appointments shall be made by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council. The City Council may by resolution enter into a
contract pursuant to SDCL § 9-14 with an attorney to provide legal services to
the city as the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1.0101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal officers, see SDCL §§ 9-14-3 and 9-14-23
§ 31.02 SALARIES.
   The salaries of all appointive officers and employees of the city shall be
approved by the City Council by resolution or motion and shall be paid twice a
month unless otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 1.0102)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries, see SDCL § 9-14-28
§ 31.03 BOND FOR FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Finance Officer shall be bonded in such sum to be approved by the City
Council in accordance with state law, conditioned for the faithful performance
of the duties of such office.
(Prior Code, § 1.0103)
Statutory reference:
   Bond, see SDCL § 9-14-6.1
§ 31.04 EMPLOYMENT POLICIES.
   All policies regarding personnel regulations and benefits of the city shall
be included in the Personnel Policy Manual, which shall be filed with the
Finance Officer and available to all personnel.
(Prior Code, § 1.0104)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE REGULATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Revenues and special funds
   
32.02   Records retention and destruction
   
32.03   Contract or purchase authority of City Administrator
   
32.04   Contract or purchase authority of department heads
   
32.05   Emergency contracts or purchases
§ 32.01 REVENUES AND SPECIAL FUNDS.
   All money belonging to the city from taxation, licenses, fines, permits, the
operation of utilities, or from any other source, shall be paid into the city
treasury, and the City Council shall designate by ordinance to what fund or
funds such money shall be applied. The Finance Officer shall keep full, true,
and just accounts of all financial affairs of the city and shall keep such
accounts and furnish in such forms and in such manner from time to time as
required by the South Dakota Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 1.0301)
§ 32.02 RECORDS RETENTION AND DESTRUCTION.
   The Records Retention and Destruction Schedule Manual, authorized for state
municipalities by the State Office of Records Management, Bureau of
Administration, shall be adopted by the City Council, and a printed copy of
such manual shall be filed with the Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1.0302)
§ 32.03 CONTRACT OR PURCHASE AUTHORITY OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator has the authority to enter into contracts and
make purchases on behalf of the city for any amount not to exceed $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 1.0303)
   (B)   The City Administrator must obtain advance verbal approval from the
Mayor to enter into any contract or make any purchase on behalf of the city
exceeding $2,500 up to $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1.0304)
   (C)   The City Administrator must obtain advance approval by motion of the
City Council, recorded in the minutes, to enter into any contract or make any
purchase on behalf of the city for any amount exceeding $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1.0305) (Ord. 281, passed 2-9-2021)
§ 32.04 CONTRACT OR PURCHASE AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   Department heads have the authority to enter into contracts and make
purchases on behalf of the city for any amount not to exceed $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 1.0306)
   (B)   Department heads must obtain advance verbal approval from the City
Administrator prior to entering into a contract or making any purchase on
behalf of the city for any amount exceeding $1,000, such approval of the City
Administrator being subject to the limitations set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 1.0307) (Ord. 281, passed 2-9-2021)
§ 32.05 EMERGENCY CONTRACTS OR PURCHASES.
   The Finance Officer and department heads are not required to obtain either
advance verbal approval from the Mayor or advance approval by motion of the
City Council, recorded in the minutes, to enter into any contract or make any
purchase on behalf of the city to address an immediate threat to the public
health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 1.0308)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Section
Rural Service District
   
33.01   Rural Service District real property
   
33.02   Agricultural land annexed
Assessed Value Formula
to Promote Economic Development
   
33.15   Application of provisions
   
33.16   Establishment of assessed value formula
   
33.17   Five year structure
   
33.18   Copy of provisions provided to County Director of Equalization
RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT
§ 33.01 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT REAL PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to and in conformity with the provisions of SDCL Chapter 9-21A, as
amended, the following described real estate located within the city, is, in
the judgment of the governing body, on the date hereof, rural in character, is
used for agriculture, and is not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban
residential purposes, and for these reasons is not benefitted to the same
degree as other lands by municipal services financed by general taxation; and
hence is hereby classified as rural service district property for purposes of
ad valorem property taxation: Lot 5 of Gregg Addition to the city (formerly
that portion of the SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of 32-104-49, Minnehaha County, lying north
and west of Co. Aud. Tract 1 of SW 1/4 of 32-104-49, except Lot 4 of Gregg
Addition which lies immediately north of and adjacent to said Co. Aud. Tract
1).
(Prior Code, § 6A.0101)
§ 33.02 AGRICULTURAL LAND ANNEXED.
   The mill levy and assessed value on agriculture land annexed shall not
exceed the average mill levy and average assessed value on unannexed
agricultural land in the adjoining township(s) in the county so long as the
annexed agricultural land remains rural property as defined in §
33.01 above.
(Prior Code, § 6A.0102)
ASSESSED VALUE FORMULA
TO PROMOTE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.15 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of provisions to city and three- mile radius. The
provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all industrial and commercial
structures and additions thereto added to real property and located within the
corporate limits of the city and all such structures and additions located
within three miles of the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6B.0103)
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   No new structure or addition shall qualify for the assessed
valuation formula described in this subchapter unless the property is in
continuous compliance with all applicable environmental and air and water
quality rules, regulations, laws, and standards that are now in effect or may
hereafter be in effect.
      (2)   This subchapter shall apply to those eligible structures or
additions erected or partially erected as of the date of assessment on January
1, 2006.
(Prior Code, § 6B.0104)
§ 33.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF ASSESSED VALUE FORMULA.
   There is hereby established the following assessed value formula for any new
industrial or commercial structure, or an addition to an existing structure,
which new structure or addition to an existing structure has the true and full
value specified in SDCL § 10-6-35.1 ($30,000 in 2005), as the same may be in
effect from time to time. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority
granted to the city pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-35.4.
(Prior Code, § 6B.0101)
§ 33.17 FIVE YEAR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   All new industrial or commercial structures or additions to existing
structures, added to real property, which new structures or additions have the
full and true value specified in SDCL § 10-6-35.1 ($30,000 in 2005), as the
same may be in effect from time to time, shall be taxed pursuant to the
following assessed value formula during the five tax years subsequent to the
completion of construction:
      (1)   The full and true value of such structures or additions shall be
determined in the usual manner by the Director of Equalization.
      (2)   For the first tax year following construction, no portion of the
taxable value shall be used for taxation purposes.
      (3)   For the second year following construction, 20% of the taxable
value shall be used for taxation purposes.
      (4)   For the third year following construction, 40% of the taxable value
shall be used for taxation purposes.
      (5)   For the fourth year following construction, 60% of the taxable
value shall be used for taxation purposes.
      (6)   For the fifth year following construction, 80% of the taxable value
shall be used for taxation purposes.
      (7)   For the sixth and all subsequent tax years following completion of
construction, such structures or additions shall be taxed in the same manner as
all other similar industrial or commercial property within the city.
   (B)   The taxable value of such structures or additions during any of the
five tax years subsequent to the completion of their construction may not be
less than their taxable value in the year preceding the first year of the tax
years following construction.
   (C)   Any such structures or additions, the construction of which is only
partially completed on any assessment date shall be assessed for taxation
purposes in the usual manner.
(Prior Code, § 6B.0102) (Res. 2020-04, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 33.18 COPY OF PROVISIONS PROVIDED TO COUNTY DIRECTOR OF EQUALIZATION.
   A true and complete copy of this subchapter, and any amendments thereto,
shall be provided to the County Director of Equalization.
(Prior Code, § 6B.010)
CHAPTER 34: BOUNDARIES; WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS
Section
   
34.01   Corporate boundaries
   
34.02   Wards and voting precincts
§ 34.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate limits of the city shall be declared to be such as have been
legally established and amended by law and ordinances of the city as show on
the official map on file in the office of the Finance Officer. Such map is
hereby incorporated in this section by reference and adopted as the official
map showing the boundaries and limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1.0401)
§ 34.02 WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS
   (A)   The city shall be divided into two wards which shall be designated
respectively as Wards One and Two. The wards shall be described by stating the
certain street or avenue designations or other landmarks that divide and border
the wards. Any reference to street or avenue below shall mean an imaginary line
running down the approximate middle of each street or avenue. The wards of the
City of Baltic are as set forth below and on the map thereof on file in the
office of the Finance Officer. Any discrepancies shall be resolved by reference
to the map rather than the physical descriptions set forth herein.
      (1)   Ward One shall include all of that part of the city south of Lovely
Avenue and west of 5th Street. It shall also include all of that part of the
city west of Douglas Boulevard and Douglas Drive south of Douglas Boulevard
located between Elm Avenue and Lovely Avenue. It shall also include all of that
part of the city west of 3rd Street extended to the north city limits.
      (2)   Ward Two shall include all of that part of the city east of 5th
Street. It shall also include all of that part of the city east of Douglas
Boulevard and Douglas Drive south of Douglas Boulevard located between Elm
Avenue and Lovely Avenue. It shall also include all of that part of the city
northeast of Elm Avenue east of 3rd Street extended to the north city limits.
   (B)   Voting precincts. All wards within the City of Baltic are hereby
combined and consolidated into one election precinct for the purpose of holding
annual municipal and other elections.
(Prior Code, § 1.0502) (Ord. 282, passed 3-9-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Application required for utility service
   
50.02   Unavailability of service
   
50.03   Deposit
   
50.04   Inspection required
   
50.05   Service taps
   
50.06   Excavation requirements
   
50.07   Modification
   
50.08   Private utility lines
   
50.09   Extension of lines outside city limits
   
50.10   Responsibility of city
   
50.11   Responsibility of property owners
   
50.12   Curb stop damage
   
50.13   Restricted use
   
50.14   Liability of city
   
50.15   Right of entry
   
50.16   Damaging, tampering with equipment
   
50.17   Unlawful use; customer sale
   
50.18   Voluntary discontinuance
   
50.19   Default
   
50.20   Reconnection
   
50.21   Billing procedure
   
50.22   Customer disputes
   
50.23   Application of payments
   
50.24   Termination of service; procedure
   
50.25   Violations
§ 50.01 APPLICATION REQUIRED FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Any party desiring to tap into the city water system or the sewer system for
premises not theretofore connected with the systems shall apply for a
connection by obtaining and completing a tapping application available from the
Finance Officer. Such application shall contain the applicant’s name, address,
and telephone number, the address of the premises to be served, and a
description of the services desired. If the tapping application is subsequently
approved by the City Council, the applicant will pay a tapping fee. The tapping
fee amount will be set by resolution and be kept on file in the office of the
Finance Officer. The city’s service for such fee shall include inspection of
the water lines once the property has been prepared for such by the property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 8.0101)
§ 50.02 UNAVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   The city may decline utility service to any person if:
   (A)   The applicant fails to provide all application information;
   (B)   The applicant fails to pay the required deposit and hookup fee;
   (C)   The applicant is indebted to the city for any reason;
   (D)   The utility service to the proposed premises does not fully meet all
city and other lawful standards; or
   (E)   The premises has an unpaid prior bill from the same or former
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 8.0102)
§ 50.03 DEPOSIT.
   There shall be a refundable deposit of $140 payable to the city before any
utility hookup. If the utility involved is a combination of water and sewer,
only one deposit is required. Such deposit may be forfeited in whole or in part
to pay any utility arrearages that may be due the city on account of default by
the user. Otherwise the deposit shall be refunded, without interest thereon, at
the time to be determined by the city. If a utility user who has either
previously paid a deposit being held by the city, or has not previously paid
the deposit but has been a user “in good standing” changes locations within the
city, no new deposit shall be required, but the original deposit if any shall
be sufficient for the new location. In addition, if a utility user was a prior
resident and utility user of the city and moves back into the city, and the
person was a prior user “in good standing” of the city, the City Council may,
but is not required to, waive the deposit.
(Prior Code, § 8.0103)
§ 50.04 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   Before allowing utility service to any premises, the service, utility lines
and pipes, meters, and any other utility apparatus shall be inspected. The
results of such inspection shall be satisfactory to the city and shall fully
meet all city, state, and other lawful standards for construction,
installation, use, and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8.0104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 SERVICE TAPS.
   Tapping of any water or sewer main for the purpose of making connection
shall be done by a plumber licensed by the state or a licensed contractor, as
directed by the Maintenance Supervisor. Distribution or collection mains shall
be provided at the discretion of the City Council, in streets, avenues, or
alleys abutting the property to be served. Water facilities for hookups shall
be provided, unless otherwise specified by the City Council, to the curb line
from the distribution or collection main. Extension of distribution or
collection mains shall meet all city specifications including, but not limited
to, the type and size of pipe, the location and depth of pipe, and the method
of construction or installation. Any property owner may petition for a new
hookup to any city water and sewer line. The City Council, in its discretion,
may allow such hookup, provided that the petitioning property owner pays the
cost for said hookup from the point it joins the city distribution or
collection main for the total frontage to the petitioning property owner’s
property.
(Prior Code, § 8.0105)
§ 50.06 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavations required for the installation of water and sewer facilities
shall be open trench work or ditch, unless otherwise approved by the City
Council. City personnel shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and the contractor or property owner shall notify the Maintenance
Supervisor when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The Maintenance Supervisor shall have the
power to approve the work or require changes. All installations of water and
sewer lines shall be in compliance with federal, state, and local laws and
regulations. No water and sewer line shall lie in the same trench unless the
sewer line is well below the water line and meets all federal and state
engineering specifications. No other utility (e.g., gas, electrical, and the
like) shall be contained in the same trench, unless permitted by federal and
state engineering specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8.0106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 MODIFICATION.
   No utility line, pipes, meter, or other apparatus shall be modified in any
way without the approval of the city, and then only in accordance with
specifications and standards of the city and these provisions. Any such
modification shall be inspected by the Maintenance Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 8.0107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 PRIVATE UTILITY LINES.
   No private utility, water or sewer line, or pipe shall be installed,
allowed, or used within the city unless the same is authorized by the city.
PRIVATE shall mean not a part of the authorized city utility system.
(Prior Code, § 8.0108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 EXTENSION OF LINES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The city may serve a water or sewer customer outside the city limits solely
at the discretion of the City Council. Said water and sewer lines shall be
constructed and maintained by the customer, at the city’s specifications, with
any parties connecting onto such lines being allowed to do so solely by the
city, and any such connections being solely regulated and charged by the city.
The city specifically reserves the right to recover or recoup its costs from
any such customer. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit or
restrict the city or any developer from cost recovery for its share of the
extension.
(Prior Code, § 8.0109)
§ 50.10 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall, unless otherwise provided herein, be responsible for all
utility line and pipe repairs and replacements on the water and sewer mains
themselves. All meters for measuring utility service use shall be approved and
furnished by the city at the owner’s expense. The city shall pay all meter
repairs and the cost of all meter testing, except as hereinafter provided. This
provision shall not prohibit city repairs and replacements of lines or mains,
and special assessment back to the benefitting property owners for the cost
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.0110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All utility line repairs and replacements from the main to and including the
premises shall be the responsibility of the property owner. If the owner or
user does not have or provide a water shut-off valve on his or her premises,
the city may install one at the owner or user’s expense. Persons served by city
water and sewer shall keep all piping, fixtures, stop valves, heaters, and
other apparatus for the use of water or sewer (including meters) in good repair
and protected from freezing. The property owner or water user shall place and
maintain a brass stop inside the basement of any building where water is to be
used at the lowest point practicable on the service pipe entering the building
and as close as practicable to the wall through which the pipe enters, and
easily accessible so that the water may be turned on or off by the owner or
user.
(Prior Code, § 8.0111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12 CURB STOP DAMAGE.
   The property owner or user has a duty to keep curb stops in good repair and
working order. If the property owner or user does not keep the curb stop in
good repair and working order, the city may repair or replace one at the
owner’s or user’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 8.0112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.13 RESTRICTED USE.
   The city shall have the right to restrict, interrupt, or regulate service at
any time during periods of emergencies, shortages, repair, or other legitimate
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8.0113)
§ 50.14 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be liable for any damage to the property of any utility
customer or any other person, due to backflow of the sewage system, failure of
water supply, interruption of service, or from any cause outside the direct
control of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0114)
§ 50.15 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Any person authorized by the city shall have access at any time to all
premises supplied with any water and sewer service by the city for the purpose
of examination and repair, if necessary in order to protect the utility
services from abusive use. If the owner or occupant of the premises does not
consent to entry, the city may obtain a search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8.0115)
§ 50.16 DAMAGING, TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, alter, molest, damage, or
tamper with, in any manner, any water hydrant, any utility line, pipe, metering
device, or other apparatus, whether electronic, digital, or mechanical, which
is part of or used in connection with any water or sewer service provided by
the city, or to break the seal of, or alter the register or mechanism of any
meter, or to otherwise make any outlet or connection in any manner so that the
water supplied by the city may be used or wasted without being metered.
(Prior Code, § 8.0116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.17 UNLAWFUL USE; CUSTOMER SALE.
   (A)   No person shall connect, turn on, turn off, or disconnect any water or
sewer service offered by the city, or remove, replace, or repair any equipment
connected to any such service, without specific city authorization to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8.0117)
   (B)   No city utility customer shall resell any city utility service without
city authorization. This shall not apply to reimbursement for the same between
landlord and tenant.
(Prior Code, § 8.0118) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.18 VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE.
   Any property owner or user desiring to voluntarily discontinue service shall
notify the Finance Officer in writing of the same. A disconnection fee, set by
resolution, shall be charged prior to disconnection. When the Finance Officer
has received notice and the disconnection fee then the city shall discontinue
service within five business days of receiving such written notice, however,
any property with a residence that is vacant or vacant and for sale shall
continue to be charged one-half of the minimum fee which is set by ordinance;
the minimum fee is calculated based on the usage of 3,000 gallons. What a
voluntary discontinuance does is to have the water service turned off at the
curb stop. A reconnection fee, set by resolution, will be charged prior to the
resumption of service.
(Prior Code, § 8.0119)
§ 50.19 DEFAULT.
   (A)   Default by renter or tenant. In the event of default by a renter or
tenant, the owner or landlord shall be liable for all sums due the city. The
owner or landlord shall be liable for utility service to rental property in the
interim between renters or tenants. In the interim between renters or tenants,
providing the city has been properly notified and service has been terminated,
the owner or landlord may pay one-half of the minimum fee which is set by
ordinance and pay the normal utility rate for actual usage.
(Prior Code, § 8.0120)
   (B)   Default by utility user. In the event of default by any utility user,
in addition to termination of service, the city shall be entitled to collect
all past due charges plus interest thereon at the maximum legal rate, and the
city shall have the right to retain the user’s deposit or fraction thereof to
satisfy any utility debt to the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0121)
§ 50.20 RECONNECTION.
   Before any service is reconnected to the city’s utility service, all prior
fees, charges and interest, if any, shall be paid in full, as well as any
additional deposit, if required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0122)
§ 50.21 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Billing procedure. City employees shall download water meter readings
on or about the last working day of each month.
      (1)   If the city is unable to obtain the water meter reading via
downloading from the “radio read system,” then the city shall investigate why
the reading is not being received. If the meter shows signs of tampering, then
the city has the right to approximate the reading and may, but is not required
to, add an additional “estimation” fee or a tampering fee to the billing (these
fees are set by separate resolution).
      (2)   Water bills shall be mailed to customers on or about the first or
second work day of each month.
      (3)   Regardless of when bills are mailed, all water bills shall be paid
on or before the twenty-first day of the month by having payment, in full, in
the office of the Finance Officer on or before 4:00 p.m. of said date. If the
twenty-first falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, payment shall be
due the next succeeding business day.
      (4)   The twenty-second day of the month, or the next business day, will
be called a “day of grace.” Payments made before 4:00 p.m. on the day of grace
will be the same as if paid before 4:00 p.m. on the twenty-first.
      (5)   On the day following the day of grace, there shall be a $10 per
month late charge added to each bill remaining unpaid. These bills are now
considered past due.
      (6)   In addition, the city may charge interest at the maximum legal rate
from the due date of the bill, until payment in full.
   (B)   Payment agreement. Any person unable to fully pay any water, sewer, or
other city utility bill, on account of financial or economic hardship not
occasioned by his or her own wasteful acts may make timely, written request to
the Finance Officer to have any bill or bills or part thereof set up on a
payment arrangement plan of so much per week or month as the Finance Officer
shall allow. If the Finance Officer so chooses, he or she may defer the matter
to the City Council for its action on any such request. Any payment plan shall
be as specified by the Finance Officer or the City Council, and shall be
strictly adhered to by the person requesting the same. So long as the applicant
abides by the payment plan, the city shall not consider termination of service.
In addition, the Finance Officer or City Council, as the case may be, may but
is not required to waive all or any portion of the late charges and/or interest
for any person abiding by the payment plan.
(Prior Code, § 8.0123)
§ 50.22 CUSTOMER DISPUTES.
    In the event any city utility customer shall have a complaint or dispute
about utility service, billings, or any other matter pertaining to the city
providing utility service to the customer, the customer shall notify the
Finance Officer in writing, within 30 days of the date the billing statement is
issued, specifying therein the specifics of the complaint or dispute. The
Finance Officer shall investigate the matter, and shall within a reasonable
time, contact the customer and attempt to resolve the matter. If after
attempted resolution of the matter, the customer is not satisfied, he or she
shall have the Finance Officer include the matter on the agenda of the next
City Council meeting, whereat the customer shall appear and state his or her
case before the City Council. The City Council shall consider the matter and
decide the issue then or at its next City Council meeting, if more time or
information is necessary. While any dispute is in process of resolution, the
customer shall continue to abide by all of the provisions of this Title.
(Prior Code, § 8.0124)
§ 50.23 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise applied by the Finance Office on any bill, all
payments received by the city for water, sewer or other utility service (i.e.,
solid waste) shall be applied, irrespective of how designated by the customer,
in the order of the oldest bill first, the next oldest bill, and the like.
   (B)   In the application of payments thereto, payment shall be applied in
the following order:
      (1)   Deposit;
      (2)   Interest, if any, added to the bill;
      (3)   Late charges, if any, added to the bill;
      (4)   The sewer portion of the bill;
      (5)   Solid waste fee;
      (6)   Sales tax; and then
      (7)   The water portion of the bill.
(Prior Code, § 8.0125)
§ 50.24 TERMINATION OF SERVICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Termination of service. The city shall have the right to terminate
utility service to any customer or refuse reconnection to any customer for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   Discovery by the city of material misinformation in the customer’s
original application for service that may prejudice the city in continuing
service to the customer;
      (2)   Nonpayment of any utility bill for one billing period and the total
due, both current and past due, is more than $140;
      (3)   Deterioration of the service system to the customer’s premises to
such an extent that water would be wasted or sewage leaking if service
continued;
      (4)   Failure of the owner of the premises or user thereof to keep the
lines, pipes, and other apparatus, including meter, in proper repair;
      (5)   Tampering with the meter or any part of the system without proper
authorization;
      (6)   Reselling or diverting any utility service without proper approval
therefor; or
      (7)   Vacancy of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.0126)
   (B)   Termination procedure. If the city believes there is proper cause for
termination of any utility service, the following procedure shall be used:
      (1)   The Finance Officer or City Council shall give the customer written
notice of proposed termination specifying the reason therefor, and setting the
date of termination at least ten calendar days from the date of the letter. If
the reason for termination is nonpayment of any utility bill, the notice shall
contain the amount due the city, including charges and interest. The letter
shall state acceptable corrective action such as:
         (a)   Payment of the bill in full;
         (b)   Making a partial payment of the bill and entering into a written
agreement to pay the balance over a period of time agreeable to the city;
         (c)   Disputing the bill in writing; or
         (d)   Filing a written appeal prior to the termination date.
      (2)   If an appeal or dispute is filed, then service shall continue until
the dispute or appeal is heard by the City Council.
      (3)   If the matter is corrected prior to the termination date, then the
termination procedure shall cease, and the parties shall resume normal
business-customer relations.
      (4)   If the matter is not corrected or an appeal or dispute is not filed
prior to the termination date, service will be terminated.
      (5)   Municipal utility service shall be continued for a single 30-day
period upon receipt of a physician’s certificate of notice from a public health
or social service official that disconnection of municipal utility service will
aggravate an existing medical emergency of the customer or another permanent
resident of the customer’s premises.
      (6)   If a customer files an appeal, the City Council may continue
service, terminate service, or continue service with such added stipulations as
the situation may call for, including increasing the deposit amount to protect
the city.
      (7)   Following the City Council’s decision on the appeal or dispute,
written notice thereof shall be given to the customer. If the decision is to
terminate or continue service with stipulations, the notice shall state clearly
the decision and the date it will take effect. The effective date shall be at
least seven days after the notice is given.
      (8)   If the original cause is not corrected by the effective date,
termination or continuation with stipulations shall take place on said date,
without further notice.
      (9)   Any customer desiring reinstatement or elimination of any
restrictions or stipulations, shall make application as described in §
50.01 hereof. Before allowing reinstatement or removal of restrictions or
stipulations, the city shall require the customer to make a showing that he or
she can fully comply with this Title.
       (10)   Before any reconnection, the customer shall pay the deposit
described in §
50.03 and any additional deposit required by the city to guarantee the
customer’s full compliance. On reconnection the city shall be entitled to set
any additional requirements in order to avoid prior termination problems.
(Prior Code, § 8.0127)
§ 50.25 VIOLATIONS.
   In the event of violation of any of the provisions of this Title, the city
shall, in addition to any other legal remedy, have the right to prosecute any
violator as described in the applicable sections of this Title. Each day in
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.0128)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Storage of garbage prior to collection
   
51.03   City services; equipment
   
51.04   City not liable
   
51.05   Recyclable materials
   
51.06   Prohibited material
   
51.07   Illegal acts
   
51.08   Rates and charges
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
terms whose definitions may be reasonably in doubt shall have the same meanings
as prescribed by applicable state statutes.
   GARBAGE. Shall be synonymous with the term “solid waste.”
   RUBBISH and REFUSE. Shall be synonymous with the term “garbage.”
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations,
and from community activities, but does not include mining waste in connection
with a mine permitted under Title 45, Hazardous Waste as defined under SDCL
Chapter 34A-11, or solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point
sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act being 33 USC § 1342, as amended to January 1, 1989, or source, special
nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
being 33 USC § 1342, as amended to January 1, 1989.
(Prior Code, § 3.0109)
§ 51.02 STORAGE OF GARBAGE PRIOR TO COLLECTION.
   (A)   All garbage shall be placed in either sealed water-tight bags or
inside garbage containers and kept in protective storage, except leaves and
grass which are to be bagged, and set to the curb or accessible alley on or
shortly before pickup.
   (B)   Whenever the premises in which garbage and rubbish accumulates are
adjacent to a street or alley, the garbage and rubbish containers for such
premises shall be kept in a location convenient and accessible to such street
or alley; if the premises are not adjacent to a street or alley, the garbage
and rubbish containers shall be kept on the premises in such a location that
they will be readily accessible to the nearest street or alley without being
unsightly and shall not accumulate garbage beyond what any such container can
handle.
   (C)   The proprietor or operator of each trailer court, duplex, apartment
house, or similar multiple-family dwelling shall furnish and maintain for the
use of the tenants a sufficient number of garbage containers with covers to
hold all garbage and rubbish that accumulates upon such premises in the course
of a week, or he or she shall require the tenants upon said premises to furnish
such containers. The place where the garbage and rubbish containers are located
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition at all times.
   (D)   Every owner or person in charge of any restaurant, hotel, grocery
store, wholesale or food processing establishment or any other business or
commercial place having garbage or rubbish shall furnish and provide for use in
connection therewith, a garbage or refuse container. Such container shall have
covers for all openings, and shall be emptied often enough to prevent the same
from giving off any odor or stench.
   (E)   Every such proprietor or operator of a trailer court, duplex,
apartment house, other multiple-family dwelling or business shall locate all
garbage or refuse containers in one of the following locations, all for the
purpose of proper appearance and garbage control:
      (1)   An off-street location so the same cannot be seen or smelled by the
general public;
      (2)   In a confined building; or
      (3)   Behind a suitable fence that prevents sight and smell.
(Prior Code, § 3.0101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 CITY SERVICES; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The collection of garbage and refuse in the city shall be made by city
contractors or operators, who shall be subject to all local ordinances as well
as all state and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3.0102)
   (B)   Every garbage collector shall use equipment which will not permit any
leakage or spilling and such truck or trailer shall be covered so that trash,
garbage, rubbish, or waste will not be dropped or spilled while in transit. Any
violation of this section shall be sufficient cause for revocation of the
collector’s contract and in addition thereto he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to fine.
(Prior Code, § 3.0104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The city shall not be liable for any expense incurred through the failure of
a contractor or operator or his or her agents and employees, to operate and
maintain collection services in a proper and effective manner, and for any
actions that may result from, or be attributed to such services performed.
(Prior Code, § 3.0103)
Statutory reference:
   Nonliability of city, see SDCL § 9-32-11
§ 51.05 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The city shall provide recycling opportunities by establishing a drop-off
site or sites within the city on such date(s), at such time(s), at such place
(s) and in such manner(s) as the city shall advertise or otherwise apprise its
residents. Recyclables shall be delivered to the drop-off site(s) by residents,
and in so doing, the recyclables shall be presorted into the kinds or types
specified by the city, and bagged, boxed, or otherwise packaged as the city
shall require.
(Prior Code, § 3.0106)
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED MATERIAL.
   The following materials and items shall be prohibited from being deposited
in any landfill, collected by any garbage hauler, or otherwise placed in the
“waste stream” by any person:
   (A)   Yard waste;
   (B)   Tires, whole or processed;
   (C)   Lead acid batteries;
   (D)   Waste motor oil;
   (E)   White good appliances;
   (F)   Officer and computer paper;
   (G)   Printer paper products, corrugated paper and cardboard paper; and
   (H)   Glass, plastic, aluminum and steel containers.
(Prior Code, § 3.0107) Penalty, see §
10.99   
§ 51.07 ILLEGAL ACTS.
   No person shall transport any solid waste, by any means from any dwelling,
residence, place of business, farm, or other site to and deposit or place such
waste in, around, or on top of any garbage can, barrel, or other receptacle of
another without that other person’s prior express permission or without the
lawful authorization of an appropriate governmental official, agent, or
employee.
(Prior Code, § 3.0108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The solid waste rate schedule is hereby set in the following manner and
these rates become effective as of January 1, 2016:
Commercial Dumpsters:  
Commercial Dumpsters:            
   Commercial tote           $25.00/month
   2 yard                    $45.00/month
   3 yard                    $55.00/month
   4 yard                    $65.00/month
   6 yard                    $85.00/month
Large Family 2 totes            $41.60/month
Residential rate                $20.80/month
Residential Senior Citizen rate $15.60/month
XL Family 3 totes               $62.40/month
 
(Res. 15-03, passed 10-13-2015; Am. Res. 2018-02, passed 3-12-18)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Sanitary sewer required
   
52.02   Existing sewer connections
   
52.03   Septic tanks prohibited
   
52.04   Private disposal system
   
52.05   Unlawful acts
   
52.06   Sewer user charge
§ 52.01 SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   A separate and independent sanitary sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, in which event
the sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one sanitary sewer. Multiple hook-ups in all cases shall be
as prescribed and approved by the city.
   (B)   A separate and independent sanitary sewer is not currently required
west of the Big Sioux River nor at any other location determined by the City
Council to be impossible to install.
(Prior Code, § 8.0301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 EXISTING SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Maintenance Supervisor, to
meet all requirements of this Title.
(Prior Code, § 8.0302)
§ 52.03 SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   No septic tanks or any other means of sewage disposal other than approved
sanitary sewers shall be allowed in use within the city limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   No connection from any private sewage disposal system shall be made with any
public sanitary sewer under jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Prohibition of clean water connections. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process
waters to any sanitary sewer, including discharging of sump pumps into floor
drains. An exception for sump pumps may be granted by the City Council at the
recommendation of the Maintenance Supervisor during the winter months of
November, December, January, February, and March. Any resident wishing to
request this exception must submit a written request to the Finance Officer for
review by the Maintenance Supervisor and inclusion on the City Council Agenda.
   (B)   Discharges to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said city, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with applicable
state or federal law.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage, petroleum products, or foreign debris. The
disposal by any person of garbage, petroleum products, and other foreign debris
into the sanitary sewer system of the city shall also be prohibited, except the
disposal of food waste into a common household kitchen garbage disposal in
proper operating order.
   (D)   Toxic or poisonous substances. The discharge of any waters containing
toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gasses in sufficient quantity, either
singly, or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any
municipal system, or to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, create any
hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from
the treatment works is hereby prohibited. Each user which discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge of the city treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 8.0305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 SEWER USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The sewer charge will be determined by the metered water usage, will
be proportionate to the services rendered, and involves consideration of the
strength and quantity of the sewage. The charge shall be $8.94 per 1,000
gallons of water usage per month, subject to a monthly minimum charge of
$26.82. The sewer charge for the months of May, June, July, and August, shall
be computed based upon the monthly average of the water usage for the preceding
January, February, March and April of the same year, or the actual monthly
usage, whichever is less, but shall not be less than the monthly minimum
charge. The sewer charge shall apply to all uses of the city's sanitary sewer
system except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The monthly and minimum sewer charge described above shall be based on
a per residential or commercial unit and not per meter basis, such that if
there is more than one user per meter (i.e., rental property, mobile home park,
and the like), the charge shall be computed on a per unit or per user basis,
and not on a per meter basis. No unit shall pay less than the minimum charge,
which is based on the usage of 3,000 gallons.
   (C)   In the event there is insufficient information to reasonably calculate
the monthly average of water usage for January, February, March, and April of
any year, the average shall be based on estimates and calculations prepared by
the Finance Officer, again on a per unit or per user basis.
   (D)   Sewer charges shall be billed and be due and payable with and as
described for water bills, including late fees and interest on unpaid bills.
(Prior Code, § 8.0306) (Ord. 251, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 264, passed 12-11-
2018; Ord. 277, passed 7-14-2020; Ord. 292, passed 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
   
53.01   Water meters/outside readers
   
53.02   Inspection of meters
   
53.03   Testing meters
   
53.04   Water rates
   
53.05   Billing adjustment
   
53.06   Water user/consumer/customer defined
   
53.07   Joint liability
§ 53.01 WATER METERS/OUTSIDE READERS.
   Water meters shall be installed in all new and existing buildings using
municipal water service at the direction of the city and at the expense of the
owner. The Maintenance Supervisor or his or her staff shall install, replace,
and repair household water meters, as approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.0201)
§ 53.02 INSPECTION OF METERS.
   Any person authorized by the City Council to read water meters or make
inspections shall be allowed free access at all reasonable hours to any
building or premises where water is used. If such persons are not allowed such
access, or dangerous conditions or animals on the premises prevent such access,
the city, in its discretion, may estimate the water use, shut off the water,
make additional charges, or take other action as may be necessary to determine
water usage and operate the system. An additional fee of $15 shall be added to
the billing statement when any person authorized by the City Council to read
water meters is required to estimate the water use for any of the above stated
reasons.
(Prior Code, § 8.0202)
§ 53.03 TESTING METERS.
   (A)   The owner of property may have his or her water meter tested by making
written request to the Finance Officer, and following approval by the City
Council. Meter testing shall be at the city’s expense. Subsequent or repeated
requests for testing shall be approved only if the City Council feels there is
reason to do the same. If the City Council approves subsequent or repeat tests,
and no improper meter reading is found, the city may require the user or
customer to pay for the subsequent test.
   (B)   If any meter fails to register properly upon testing, the amount
overcharged or undercharged for water use during such period shall be estimated
by the City Council, such estimate to be based on the average amount registered
during a like period.
(Prior Code, § 8.0203)
§ 53.04 WATER RATES.
   The following rates are hereby established for each consumer taking water
from the municipal water system: $8.31 per 1,000 gallons of water usage per
month, subject to a monthly minimum charge of $24.93, if less than 3,000
gallons is used in the month.
(Prior Code, § 8.0204) (Ord. 250, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 263, passed 12-11-
2018; Ord. 276, passed 7-14-2020; Ord. 290, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 53.05 BILLING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Upon application of any water customer, the City Council may adjust a
water bill for the limited reason of an abnormally high water usage caused by a
verifiable water leak. To avail himself or herself of this provision, the
customer must contact the Finance Officer within 30 days of the date of the
abnormally high bill and request, in writing, an adjustment for the reason
stated. The City Council may consider adjustment of the bill if it finds the
following:
      (1)   The leak can be verified by the Maintenance Supervisor or other
authorized person;
      (2)   The leak was not caused by the customer’s negligence;
      (3)   The customer did not previously know about the leak and had no
reason to suspect the same;
      (4)   The customer previously kept the utility service in proper repair,
and upon discovery or suspicion of the leak did everything in his or her power,
in a timely manner, to either fix the same or prevent further water loss; and
      (5)   The abnormally high bill is at least double any of the prior 12
consecutive monthly bills.
   (B)   If the city is satisfied with the above findings, the City Council
may, but is not required to, adjust the bill in the following manner:
      (1)   The customer shall pay a “normal” bill based upon the highest
monthly usage for the past 12 months;
      (2)   In addition thereto, the customer shall pay the city’s cost plus
$0.20 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof for the usage above and beyond the
highest monthly usage used in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   The sewer portion of the bill shall be based on the “normal” bill
only, described in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 8.0205)
§ 53.06 WATER USER/CONSUMER/ CUSTOMER DEFINED.
   (A)   The general rule for billing for utility service to any utility user
(s), consumer(s), or customer(s) shall be that each separate meter shall give
rise to a separate utility bill and a separate minimum charge.
   (B)   The following shall constitute the only exceptions to this rule.
      (1)   Where the location is an apartment, trailer court, or other multi-
user locale such that one meter serves the entire location although there may
be many “customers,” the city shall have the authority but not the obligation
to declare any such location as multi-user, and there shall be as many “users/
consumers/customers” as there are rental or other units thereat, as determined
by the City Council.
      (2)   The city, on application of any person, may make any other
exception, for good cause, as it may deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 8.0206)
§ 53.07 JOINT LIABILITY.
   In the event two or more customers are supplied with water from the same
service pipe, if any of the parties fail to pay any water bill when due, or to
comply with any rule of the city, the city shall have all rights and remedies
against any of the “joint” users until such charge is paid, or the rules
strictly complied with, all such services being deemed the joint obligation of
all persons that are a part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.0207)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
74.   SNOWMOBILES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Duty of law enforcement officers
   
70.03   Obedience to enforcement
   
70.04   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.05   Application to workers and equipment
   
70.06   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.08   Maximum passengers in front seat
   
70.09   Clinging to moving vehicle
   
70.10   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
70.11   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
70.12   Tampering with vehicles
   
70.13   Striking animal
Accidents
   
70.25   Duty following accident
   
70.26   When driver unable to report
Vehicle Equipment
   
70.40   Warning tickets
   
70.41   Windshields to be unobstructed
   
70.42   Windshield wipers to be properly working
   
70.43   Rear-view mirrors
   
70.44   Horn
   
70.45   Emergency vehicle warning devices
   
70.46   Directional signals
   
70.47   Exhaust system and muffler
   
70.48   Protection of load
   
70.49   Projecting loads
   
70.50   Lights required; dimming headlights
   
70.51   Operation with parking lights on
   
70.52   Stop lights and turn signals
   
70.53   Red and blue lights
   
70.54   Brakes
   
70.55   Weight and size of vehicle and loads
   
70.56   Child restraint
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of any Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal department or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the City
Council.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any police officer or other law enforcement
personnel approved by the City Council to enforce the provisions of the
ordinances of the city.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether attendee or unattended, upon a
roadway or street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs and signals.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0107)
§ 70.02 DUTY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   Duty to enforce. It shall be the duty of law enforcement officers to
enforce these traffic regulations and all of the state vehicle laws applicable
to street traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officials in the
administration of these traffic laws.
(Prior Code, § 7.0101)
   (B)   Directing traffic. Law enforcement officers shall direct traffic in
conformance with traffic laws and ordinances provided that in the event of a
fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
Fire Department personnel may direct traffic as conditions may require.
(Prior Code, § 7.0102)
Statutory reference:
   State provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-19
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order, signal, or
direction of any law enforcement officer, or refuse to submit to any lawful
inspection or fail to comply with the provisions or requirements of any warning
ticket issued under this Title.
(Prior Code, § 7.0103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Title regulating the movement, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles while the operator
of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency in the necessary
performance of public duties. This exemption shall not, however, exempt the
drivers of any such vehicle from the consequence of a reckless disregard of the
safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 7.0104)
§ 70.05 APPLICATION TO WORKERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The provisions of this Title shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and
other equipment while actually engaged in authorized work upon the surface of a
street, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from
such work; provided, however, such persons and vehicles shall not
indiscriminately block traffic, but shall allow reasonable room on the traveled
portion of the street for other vehicles to pass. This section shall apply to
utility workers such as NSP, Minnegasco, phone company, cable TV, sewer, water,
and the like, any city maintenance people, and any other people authorized to
do any such work by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.0105)
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals,
and devices when and as required under this Title to make effective the
provisions of said Title, and as may be necessary to regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.0106)
Statutory reference:
   State provisions, see SDCL § 32-14-5
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The operator of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the
provisions of this Title unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer
subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.0108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 MAXIMUM PASSENGERS IN FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle with more than three persons in the
front seat of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0901) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-43
§ 70.09 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person shall cling to or attach himself or herself or any vehicle he or
she is riding on or in to any other moving vehicle upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 7.0902) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall ride on any vehicles upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers, except within areas in truck or pickup
bodies intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 7.0903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 7.0904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.12 TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES.
   Any person who shall tamper with the motor vehicle of another, with intent
to injure the same or cause inconvenience to the owner thereof, or who shall
take and operate the motor vehicle of another without the consent of the owner
or person lawfully in charge thereto, under such circumstances as not to
constitute larceny, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0905) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.13 STRIKING ANIMAL.
   The operator of any vehicle which collides with any dog or domestic animal
causing injury thereto shall stop and attempt to ascertain and notify the owner
of such animal and notify a law enforcement officer of such accident.
(Prior Code, § 7.0906) Penalty, see §
10.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.25 DUTY FOLLOWING ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to any person, or damage to property, shall immediately stop and do
the following:
      (1)   Render reasonable assistance to any injured person, including the
carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for medical treatment if it
is apparent that such treatment is necessary or is requested by the injured
person;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the name and address of the
owner and license number of the vehicle he or she is driving to the person
struck or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with;
      (3)   Immediately, by the quickest means of communication, report such
accident to the nearest available law enforcement officer, and provide the
information required by division (A)(2) above;
      (4)   If the accident is with an unattended vehicle or other property,
the operator shall attempt to locate and notify the owner of such unattended
vehicle or property and give the information required by division (A)(2) above;
and
      (5)   If the owner of the unattended vehicle or property is unknown, the
information required by division (A)(2) above shall be securely attached or
left in a conspicuous place in or on such unattended vehicle or property.
   (B)   Any operator of any vehicle involved in such an accident who fails to
fully comply with this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0907)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-34-3, 32-34-3.1, 32-34-4, 32-34-5,
32-34-6 and 32-34-7
§ 70.26 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   An accident report shall not be required from any person who is physically
incapable of making such report during his or her period of incapacity.
Whenever the operator of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving an
immediate notice of an accident and there is another occupant in the vehicle at
the time of the accident capable of doing so, such occupant shall cause to be
given the notice not given by the operator.
(Prior Code, § 7.0908)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-34-8 and 32-34-9
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 70.40 WARNING TICKETS.
   Any authorized law enforcement officer, upon reasonable belief that a
vehicle is being operated in violation of any provision of this Title or
applicable state law or is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person,
may require the driver of the vehicle to stop and submit to inspection of the
vehicle and its equipment, license plates, and registration card, and is hereby
authorized to issue a warning ticket to any driver whose vehicle is in such
violation. Such warning ticket shall clearly designate the provisions which are
being violated and shall provide for notification to law enforcement officials
when such violation is corrected, by the time specified on the warning ticket.
Failure to correct the violation and return the warning ticket within the time
specified shall constitute a violation of this Title.
(Prior Code, § 7.0301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.41 WINDSHIELDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle upon any
street with any object or gadget dangling between the view of the driver and
the windshield, or with the front windshield obstructed or with any sign,
poster, or other non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side
wings, side, or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be so displayed by law or other temporary driving
instruction placed thereon by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 7.0302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-6
§ 70.42 WINDSHIELD WIPERS TO BE PROPERLY WORKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle upon any
street unless the vehicle has properly working windshield wipers as prescribed
by state law. This shall not apply to farm tractors and motorcycles.
(Prior Code, § 7.0303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-7
§ 70.43 REAR-VIEW MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror located as to reflect to
the driver a rear view of the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 7.0304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-8
§ 70.44 HORN.
   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a suitable horn in good working
order capable of emitting a sound audible under normal conditions for a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 7.0305) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-10
§ 70.45 EMERGENCY VEHICLE WARNING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, other than an authorized emergency
vehicle, to be equipped with or for any unauthorized person to use any visual
or audible warning device commonly associated with emergency vehicles,
including, but not being limited to, sirens, whistles, horns, bells, and the
like.
(Prior Code, § 7.0306) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-11 and 32-15-12
§ 70.46 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   Every motor vehicle, except those exempt by applicable state law, shall be
equipped with properly working turn signals which, upon turning, shall be
clearly visible as lights, both front and rear, indicating where the vehicle is
proceeding left or right. The operator of every non-exempt motor vehicle shall
use said turn signals prior to executing any turn within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0307) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-13
§ 70.47 EXHAUST SYSTEM AND MUFFLER.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any city street unless such
vehicle is equipped with an exhaust system and muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual notice or annoying
smoke. It shall be unlawful for any person to use a muffler cut-out on any
motor vehicle within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-17
§ 70.48 PROTECTION OF LOAD.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven on any street unless such vehicle is
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for
the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled
on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway. No person shall operate
on any street any vehicle with any load unless said load and any covering is
securely fastened so as to prevent said covering or load from becoming loose,
detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0309) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-15-18
§ 70.49 PROJECTING LOADS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street with any load or part of a
load projecting more than four feet beyond the sides, or end of the body, or
carrying part of such vehicle, unless there is attached to the extreme ends and
sides of such projecting load some warning sign or signal plainly discernable
to other drivers and clearly indicating the projecting parts of such load.
(Prior Code, § 7.0310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.50 LIGHTS REQUIRED; DIMMING HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   Light required. A motor vehicle in motion, during the period from one
half-hour after sunset to one half-hour before sunrise, shall display at least
two working lighted lamps on the front and one properly working light on the
rear of such motor vehicle, such lamps to conform to the state law; provided
that a motorcycle or motor bicycle shall be required to display one lighted
lamp in front and one in the rear.
(Prior Code, § 7.0311)
   (B)   Headlights dimmed. No person shall use headlights upon any oncoming
vehicle on any street unless the same are dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 7.0312) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-17, 32-17-7
§ 70.51 OPERATION WITH PARKING LIGHTS ON.
   No vehicle shall be operated on any city street with the front parking
lights, as defined by applicable state law, on only.
(Prior Code, § 7.0313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.52 STOP LIGHTS AND TURN SIGNALS.
   All stop lights and turn signal lights shall be in proper operating order at
all times while the vehicle is in operation.
(Prior Code, § 7.0314) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-17-8.1 and 32-18 
§ 70.53 RED AND BLUE LIGHTS.
   Except as to law enforcement, emergency, or Fire Department vehicles,
ambulances, or tow trucks, operating under such circumstances as may be proved
by law, any person who operates any vehicle in the city with any red or blue
light thereon visible from directly in front, behind, or to the sides thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-17-9, 32-17-10, and 32-17-42
§ 70.54 BRAKES.
   Every motor vehicle, except as exempt under applicable state law, shall be
provided with foot pedal brakes in good working order and sufficient to control
such motor vehicle at all times when same is in use.
(Prior Code, § 7.0316) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-18
§ 70.55 WEIGHT AND SIZE OF VEHICLE AND LOADS.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle upon any street, the gross
weight of which including the load or the size of which do not comply with the
requirements of the state law governing such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0317) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-22
§ 70.56 CHILD RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Every parent or legal guardian of a child under five years of age,
when transporting the child on the streets of the city in a passenger vehicle,
shall provide for the protection of the child by properly securing the child in
a child restraint system meeting the regulations of the State Department of
Transportation. This section shall be deemed complied with if the child is at
least two and under five years of age and is secured by a seat belt.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   To drivers licensed in another state or jurisdiction;
      (2)   If the child’s personal needs are being attended to by someone
other than the driver;
      (3)   If all seats equipped with seat belts or child restraint systems
are occupied; or
      (4)   In cars manufactured prior to 1966 that are not equipped with seat
belts.
(Prior Code, § 7.0318) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-37
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Traffic Provisions
   
71.01   Driver’s license required
   
71.02   License plates
   
71.03   Driving on right side of street required
   
71.04   Driving on sidewalk prohibited
   
71.05   Reckless driving
   
71.06   Careless driving
   
71.07   Exhibition driving
   
71.08   Passing
   
71.09   Pedestrian’s right-of-way
   
71.10   Approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
71.11   Approach of school bus
   
71.12   Funeral procession
   
71.13   Unlawful to operate with unmuffled dynamic engine braking
Intersections
   
71.25   Right-of-way at intersection
   
71.26   U-turn at intersection
   
71.27   Yielding to vehicle when turning left
   
71.28   Required action at stop sign
   
71.29   Required action at yield sign
   
71.30   Stop required before entering from alley, building or private road
   
71.31   Backing around corners or into intersection prohibited
Speed Restrictions
   
71.45   Establishment of speed zones
   
71.46   Maximum limits generally
   
71.47   School zones
Truck Traffic
   
71.60   Definition
   
71.61   Designated truck route
   
71.62   Operation of trucks
   
71.63   Exceptions to the use of truck routes
Cross-reference:
   Littering from motor vehicle, see §
92.01
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate upon any of the
streets or highways within the city any motor vehicle without first having
secured and having in his or her possession a valid license or permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7.0201) Penalty, see §
10.99   
§ 71.02 LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle within the city without
having conspicuously displayed thereon license plates as required by state law,
securely fastened, and which shall be kept free from mud, dirt, or other
obstruction so that the license plates shall be clearly legible by other
persons upon the highway. This section shall not apply to those motor vehicles
exempt by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 7.0202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF STREET REQUIRED.
   Upon all streets the operator of a vehicle shall drive the same upon the
right half of the street and shall drive a slow-moving vehicle as closely as
possible to the right-hand edge or curb of a street unless it is impractical to
travel on such side of the street, and except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle subject to the limitations applicable to overtaking and passing
set forth in this Title.
(Prior Code, § 7.0203) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-1
§ 71.04 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-21.1
§ 71.05 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street or alley, or on the property
of the school carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of
others, or without due caution and circumspections, and at a speed or in a
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall
be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0205) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-24-1
§ 71.06 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street or alley, or on the property
of the school, carelessly and without due caution, at a speed or in a manner so
as to endanger any person or property, not amounting to reckless driving as
defined in §
71.05, shall be guilty of careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0206) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-24-8
§ 71.07 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street, or alley, or on the
property of the school, in such a manner that creates or causes unnecessary
engine noise, tire squeal, skid or slide upon acceleration or stopping; or that
simulates a temporary race, or that causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn
abruptly or sway, shall be guilty of exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0207) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-24-9
§ 71.08 PASSING.
   The operator of any vehicle approaching another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall not pass such vehicle without ascertaining that passing
can be done with safety, and then only to the left thereof. If such vehicle is
making a left turn, passing can be done on the right but only if it can be done
without leaving the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0208) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-26
§ 71.09 PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by law enforcement officers or traffic-control
signals. Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0212) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-27-1 and 32-27-3
§ 71.10 APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle giving audible and
visible signal by light or siren, or of a police vehicle using audible signal
only, the operator of other vehicles shall immediately drive to a position as
near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street,
clear of any intersections, and shall stop and remain in such position until
the authorized emergency vehicle shall have passed, unless otherwise directed
by a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 7.0217) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-31-6
§ 71.11 APPROACH OF SCHOOL BUS.
   The operator of a motor vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus on which
the amber warning lights are flashing shall reduce the vehicle’s speed to not
more than 20 mph and proceed past the bus with caution. The operator of a motor
vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus on which the red signal lights are
flashing shall stop the vehicle not closer than 15 feet from the bus, and shall
remain stopped until the flashing red signal lights are extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 7.0218) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-32-6
§ 71.12 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   No driver of any vehicle shall drive through, pass, or otherwise interfere
with any funeral procession. Such driver shall stop when reaching the
procession and shall not proceed until the procession has completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7.0219) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITH UNMUFFLED DYNAMIC ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the limits of the city
any motor vehicle with unmufled dynamic engine braking except for the aversion
of imminent danger. UNMUFFLED DYNAMIC ENGINE BRAKING (commonly referred to as
Jacobs Brake) means a device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of the
engine from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose
of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
(Prior Code, § 7.0220) (Ord. 265, passed 12-11-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
INTERSECTIONS
§ 71.25 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION.
   The right-of-way rule as between vehicles at intersections on public
highways is hereby declared as follows:
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the operator of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-
of-way to the vehicle on the right, except that emergency vehicles shall always
have the right-of-way.
   (B)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have.
(Prior Code, § 7.0209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-12
§ 71.26 U-TURN AT INTERSECTION.
   At any intersection where warned by a traffic-control sign displaying the
words “No U-Turn,” it shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to turn
such vehicle at the intersection in a half circle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 7.0210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.27 YIELDING TO VEHICLE WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The operator of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the
left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection, or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The operator having so yielded and having given
a signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the operators of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 7.0211) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-19
§ 71.28 REQUIRED ACTION AT STOP SIGN.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer or
traffic-control signal, every operator of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall come to a full stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersection
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped, the operator shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered or is approaching the intersection from another
highway and shall not proceed into the intersection until certain that such
intersecting roadway is free from oncoming traffic which may affect safe
passage.
(Prior Code, § 7.0213) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-29-2.1
§ 71.29 REQUIRED ACTION AT YIELD SIGN.
   The operator of a vehicle approaching an authorized sign bearing the word
“Yield” or “Yield Right-of-Way” shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to
a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall stop if necessary and
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on
which such operator is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or
approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
Said operator having so yielded may proceed and the operators of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding.
If such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian or vehicle, such
collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of failure to yield.
(Prior Code, § 7.0215) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-29-3
§ 71.30 STOP REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING OR PRIVATE ROAD.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within a business or residence district shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across such alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where said operator has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7.0214) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-29-2.2
§ 71.31 BACKING AROUND CORNERS OR INTO INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back such vehicle
around a corner at an intersection or into an intersection of public streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.0216) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-30-20
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to establish upon any public street in
the city, limited speed zones which speed limit shall constitute the maximum
speed at which any person may operate any vehicle within such zones, which
highway the maximum speed permissible in the zone has been conspicuously posted
by sign authorized by the Council.
   (B)   The beginning and end of such speed zones shall be indicated by signs
showing the speed limits.
(Prior Code, § 7.0401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.46 MAXIMUM LIMITS GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided by the City Council, or unless otherwise posted
by appropriate speed zone signs, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle at a rate of speed greater than the following:
   (A)   Fifteen mph within any business district;
   (B)   Fifteen mph within any residential district, when people are present;
   (C)   Twenty-five mph within any residential district, when people are not
present;
   (D)   Fifteen mph at every obstructed intersection, meaning when the driver
is 50 feet or closer to the intersection and he or she does not have a clear,
uninterrupted view down all streets intersecting such intersection for at least
200 feet from such intersection;
   (E)   Fifteen mph at railroad crossings if the driver’s view is obstructed
at any time during the last 200 feet of approach to the crossing, meaning he or
she does not have a clear, uninterrupted view of the crossing and railway or
other traffic for a distance of 400 feet in each direction from the crossing;
   (F)   The maximum speed designated by a law enforcement officer at the
location of his or her direction; and
   (G)   The maximum speed(s) established by state law on any section of street
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.47 SCHOOL ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle at a speed
greater than 15 mph when passing a school during recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
(Prior Code, § 7.0403) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRUCK TRAFFIC
§ 71.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term TRUCK shall mean and include
trucks, trailers, semi-trailers, tractors, farm wagons, commercial motor
carriers, and all vehicles having a gross vehicle weight of five tons or more.
(Prior Code, § 7.0601)
§ 71.61 DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTE.
   The designated truck route for the city shall consist of:
   (A)   First, Second, and Third Streets from County Highway 114 to St. Olaf
Avenue;
   (B)   Fourth Street from County Highway 114 throughout its length;
   (C)   St. Olaf Avenue from First Street to Third Street; and
   (D)   Main Street from County Highway 114 to 150 feet north of County
Highway 114.
(Prior Code, § 7.0602)
§ 71.62 OPERATION OF TRUCKS.
   Any person operating a truck as defined in this subchapter shall operate
said vehicle only upon the designated truck route and no other, except where
necessary to traverse another street or streets to a destination for the
purpose of loading or unloading commodities, or for the purpose of towing a
disabled or damaged vehicle to or from public or private property, and then
only by such deviation from the nearest truck route as is reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7.0603) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 71.63 EXCEPTIONS TO THE USE OF TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Mayor or Maintenance Engineer shall have the authority, subject to
modification by the City Council, to issue temporary permits for a period of
not more than 24 hours for trucks to operate over routes not designated as
truck routes, but only upon showing of good cause and only after request for
the same.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to school buses,
emergency vehicles of any Fire Department, public utility, or governmental
vehicles where actually engaged in the performance of services necessary to the
functioning of the same, or refuse or solid waste collection or transport
vehicles when the same shall actually be engaged in that enterprise within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0604)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
   
72.03   Places where stopping, standing, and parking prohibited
   
72.04   Handicapped parking
   
72.05   Parallel parking and angle parking
   
72.06   Posted no parking areas
   
72.07   Abandoned vehicles
   
72.08   Removal and disposal of abandoned, junked or derelict motor vehicles
and scrap metals
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall stop, park, or leave any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the traveled portion of any street, nor upon any portion of
any street so as to cause an obstruction of traffic on the street. Whenever any
law enforcement officer or other official designated by the City Council finds
a vehicle which constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer shall be
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle, by towing, if necessary,
at the owner’s expense, with no liability to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0501) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-30-1, 32-30-2 and 32-30-3
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow the vehicle to remain unattended
without effectively setting the parking brake, and if on any grade, turning the
steering wheel so that the front tires are aimed to the curb or side of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 7.0502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 PLACES WHERE STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
   (A)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (B)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (C)   Within a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within an intersection;
   (E)   On a sidewalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
said entrance;
   (G)   On any railroad tracks;
   (H)   On any bridge;
   (I)   In such a manner so as to block the view of any traffic-control sign
or device;
   (J)   With the left side of the vehicle next to the curb;
   (K)   On any private property without the consent of the owner of the
property; or
   (L)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking.
(Prior Code, § 7.0503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked in any area clearly designated as a
physically handicapped parking area, unless such vehicle clearly displays a
lawfully authorized handicapped license plate.
(Prior Code, § 7.0504) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-30-11.4
§ 72.05 PARALLEL PARKING AND ANGLE PARKING.
   All vehicles parked within the city shall be parallel parked with the
following exceptions which are hereby designated as angle parking: Second
Street (Business District) and St. Olaf Avenue between First and Third Streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.0505) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 POSTED NO PARKING AREAS.
   The City Council shall have authority to designate all areas where parking
shall be prohibited or limited. The designation shall be by appropriate signs
or by painting the curb or street area with yellow paint. Parking in any such
area, unless within an authorized limitation as posted, shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 7.0506) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle left unattended on any street or alley for longer than 24
hours without notifying the city or local law enforcement officials shall be
deemed abandoned, unless the city officials shall, from all appearances, know
that the same is not true. Any vehicle in disrepair or partly dismantled shall
be presumed to be abandoned. If the owner of the vehicle is known or readily
identifiable, the owner shall be contacted and given a short reasonable time to
move the vehicle from the street or alley. If the owner is not known or readily
identifiable or if the owner has been contacted and fails to move the vehicle
within the time given, the city or law enforcement agency may provide for the
removal of such vehicle, at the owner’s expense, at no liability to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0507)
   (B)   Whichever official provides for the removal of any abandoned vehicle
shall cause notice to be given to the owner thereof and lien holder, if any, as
provided by SDCL § 32-30-15, as amended. The owner may claim the same after
paying all towing, storage, and other charges incurred in removing the vehicle.
If the vehicle remains unclaimed after three months from the date of notice,
the vehicle may be sold and title transferred as provided by SDCL §§ 32-36-
9 and 32-36-11, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 7.0508) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
92.40 through
92.48
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-30-12, 32-30-12.1, and 32-30-13
§ 72.08 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED, JUNKED OR DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES
AND SCRAP METALS.
   The city shall have authority to remove and dispose of all abandoned motor
vehicles, junked or derelict motor vehicles, and other scrap metals, whether
found on public or private property, all as provided by SDCL Chapter 32-36, as
amended.
(Prior Code, § 7.0509)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply; definitions
   
73.02   Driver’s license required
   
73.03   Helmet required for persons under eighteen years of age
   
73.04   Eye protection/windscreen
   
73.05   Muffler
   
73.06   Attachment of other vehicles
   
73.07   Off-road/all-terrain vehicles
   
73.08   Operation prohibited on public property
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY; DEFINITIONS.
   All motor vehicle and traffic laws shall apply to motorcycles unless
otherwise provided herein or in the South Dakota Codified Laws. “Motorcycle,”
“Moped,” “Off-Road Vehicle,” and “All-Terrain Vehicle” shall have the same
definitions herein as defined in SDCL Chapter 32-20, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 7.0701)
§ 73.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle other than a moped on any city street
without a driver’s license that is certified for motorcycle operation.
(Prior Code, § 7.0702) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 HELMET REQUIRED FOR PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE.
   No person under 18 years of age shall operate or ride as a passenger on any
motorcycle unless he or she is wearing a protective helmet as required by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 7.0703) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-20-4
§ 73.04 EYE PROTECTION/WINDSCREEN.
   No person may operate a motorcycle unless he or she is wearing an eye
protective device or unless the cycle is equipped with a properly functioning
windscreen.
(Prior Code, § 7.0704) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-20-4.1
§ 73.05 MUFFLER.
   The same muffler laws that apply to motor vehicles shall apply to
motorcycles.
(Prior Code, § 7.0705)
§ 73.06 ATTACHMENT OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person riding on a motorcycle shall attach himself or herself or the
cycle to any other moving vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0706) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 32-20-6.5
§ 73.07 OFF-ROAD/ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   No off-road or all-terrain vehicle shall be operated on the streets of the
city unless the same is properly equipped so as to be licensed and actually is
licensed as an on-road vehicle by the State of South Dakota or other state.
(Prior Code, § 7.0707) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 OPERATION PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle, moped, off-road vehicle, or all-
terrain vehicle, as such vehicles are defined herein and in SDCL Chapter 32-20,
as amended, on any public property, including, but not limited to public school
grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational areas, golf courses, parking
lots, and lakes; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to
any such vehicles owned or leased by the city when operated by agents or
employees of the city acting within the scope of their employment for municipal
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7.0708) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Operation regulations
   
74.03   Required equipment
   
74.04   Snowmobile not to be left unattended
   
74.05   No driving on sidewalk
   
74.06   Driver subject to traffic laws
   
74.07   Towing person or object prohibited
   
74.08   Authority of government officials
   
74.09   Noise disturbance prohibited
   
74.10   Speeding; careless, reckless, or negligent operation
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Every person who operates or who is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OPERATE. To control the operations of a snowmobile.
   OWNER. Any person, other than a lienholder, having a property interest in or
title to a snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Includes any and all real property, or land within the
city which has not been opened or dedicated for public use or as a public
highway or public thoroughfare.
   SIDEWALK. The portion between the curb line and adjacent property lines set
aside for the use of pedestrians.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled-type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt tread or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
   STREET. The part of the street set apart for the use of vehicles or motor
vehicles and including streets, avenues, alleys, and public highways and public
thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 7.0801)
§ 74.02 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile within or upon any street except
Fourth Street, Fifth Street, and Lovely Avenue, and streets to and from that
person’s residence utilizing the most direct route to and from the
aforementioned streets. No person shall operate a snowmobile pursuant to this
division (A) except under road and weather conditions suitable for the safe
operation of a snowmobile.
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile within or upon any street not
named in division (A) except under road and weather conditions as declared by
the Mayor to constitute emergency travel conditions authorizing use of a
snowmobile, or as an emergency vehicle when necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of any person; provided, however, that where necessary to
enter private property, a person may operate a snowmobile across a street at a
right angle as closely as possible to an intersection or approach, and only
after first stopping and yielding the right-of-way to all approaching traffic.
   (C)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on private property of another
without the express permission to do so by the owner or occupant of such
property, and no person shall operate a snowmobile on private property of his
or her own or another between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the
following day.
   (D)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any public property,
including, but not limited to public school grounds, park property,
playgrounds, recreational areas, golf courses, parking lots, and lakes.
(Prior Code, § 7.0802)
   (E)   The driver of a snowmobile on Fourth Street, Fifth Street, and Lovely
Avenue and under emergency conditions shall be subject to all existing traffic
ordinances of the city and traffic laws of the state, and in addition, such
driver shall:
      (1)   Display a lighted headlight and taillight at all times during such
operation;
      (2)   Slow the speed of such snowmobile to 15 mph or less when entering
any uncontrolled intersection; and
      (3)   Have a valid state driver’s license in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 7.0803) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   All snowmobiles operated within the city shall have the following equipment:
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device on
such vehicle;
   (B)   Adequate brakes in good working condition;
   (C)   A safety or deadman throttle in operating condition, such being a
device which when pressure is removed from the accelerator, the throttle causes
the motor to disengage from the driving track; and
   (D)   At least one headlight and one taillight in good working condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.0804) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 SNOWMOBILE NOT TO BE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   No owner or driver of a snowmobile shall leave or allow the snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property or streets while the motor is running
or where the keys for starting the vehicle are left in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 7.0805) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.05 NO DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 DRIVER SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC LAWS.
   (A)   The driver of a snowmobile shall be deemed the driver of a motor
vehicle within the meaning of this Title and is subject to all the provisions
of the same and SDCL § 32-23 relating to driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, drugs, or otherwise therein provided and such operation
shall be punishable for any violation of such ordinance and state law.
(Prior Code, § 7.0807)
   (B)   The operator of a snowmobile is required to obey the same traffic laws
of the state and ordinances of the city, including street and road signs, as
operators of all other vehicles are required to obey.
(Prior Code, § 7.0813) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07 TOWING PERSON OR OBJECT PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a snowmobile shall tow any person or object behind such
snowmobile, except when such person or object is situated upon a conveyance
which is attached to such snowmobile by means of a rigid hitch or towbar.
(Prior Code, § 7.0808) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.08 AUTHORITY OF GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section, any governmental
official in charge of public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, public
golf courses, parking lots, or lakes shall have authority to supervise and
regulate events or programs conducted thereon or to designate areas under his
or her charge and supervision as recreation areas that he or she shall deem
available for use of snowmobiles, and the hours of such use.
(Prior Code, § 7.0809) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined in §
130.01 Disorderly Conduct, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
snowmobile in such a manner as to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any noise disturbance within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0810) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 SPEEDING; CARELESS, RECKLESS, OR NEGLIGENT OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile at a speed greater than is
reasonable or proper, under all existing conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7.0811)
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner as to likely to endanger the person or property of another or
cause injury or damage thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.0812)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   TREES AND VEGETATION
      
94.   PARK REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Running at large prohibited
   
90.003   Responsibility of owner, keeper, caretaker and the like
   
90.004   Vicious animals
   
90.005   Disturbing the peace
   
90.006   Cruelty to animals
   
90.007   Stray, abandoned or unkept animals
   
90.008   Poisoning animals
   
90.009   Keeping of animals
   
90.010   Type and number of animals that may be kept
   
90.011   Abandoning prohibited
   
90.012   Trapping or hunting prohibited
   
90.013   Record of bites
   
90.014   Enforcement; failure to comply
Licensing
   
90.025   Licensing of dogs and cats required
   
90.026   Application for license certificate and tag
   
90.027   License fee schedule
Rabies Control
   
90.040   Cooperation of Animal Control Officer and other officials
   
90.041   Vaccination required
   
90.042   Impounding of animals
   
90.043   Keeping rabid animals
   
90.044   Report of suspected cases
   
90.045   Destruction of rabid animals
   
90.046   Muzzling proclamation
Impounding
   
90.060   Enforcement and authority
   
90.061   Interference with performance of duty
   
90.062   Impoundment fees
   
90.063   Notice to owner
   
90.064   Redemption
   
90.065   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
90.066   Records
   
90.067   Injured or abused animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature other than a human.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The persons or law enforcement officials designated
by the City Council from time to time to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The person, entity, or agency designated by the City Council
from time to time to enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall include
Animal Control Officer whenever the context so requires to carry out and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   An animal when off or away from the premises and not under control
of the owner, possessor, keeper, agent or a member of the owner’s immediate
family by a leash.
      (2)   An animal when on the premises of the owner, possessor, keeper,
agent, or a member of the owner’s immediate family if not attended by a
competent person unless the animal is chained, restrained, enclosed, or
confined in a manner preventing it from leaving the premises.
   FOWL. Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pheasants, quail, partridge, pigeons,
guinea, or other like birds.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain, not to exceed six feet in length, by which
an animal is controlled by the person accompanying it.
   OWNER. Any person harboring or keeping an animal and who is the head of the
household of the residence or the owner or manager in charge of the
establishment or premises at which an animal remains or returns to.
   PET. Any domestic animal kept in or near a household for the primary purpose
of companionship for member(s) of the household and/or companionship for other
such animals. This includes dogs, cats, guinea pigs, hamsters, rats, mice,
ferrets, rabbits, birds (other than fowl, water-fowl, and birds of prey),
reptiles (other than venomous reptiles or constrictor snakes), amphibians,
invertebrates, and species of domestic animals commonly kept for the primary
purpose of such companionship. Fowl, raptors, and livestock are not pets.
   RAPTOR. All birds that are members of the order Falconiformes or
Strigiformes; specifically, but not limited to, birds of prey such as falcons,
hawks, eagles, owls, and vultures.
(Prior Code, § 2.0101)
§ 90.002 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have any animal which is owned, kept,
harbored, or allowed to be habitually in or upon the premises occupied by the
owner or under the owner’s control to be at large and to go in or upon the
private premises of others or upon any public property. Any animal found in or
upon the private premises of others or upon any public property in violation
hereof shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer or designated Animal
Control Agency. Whenever an animal is found running at large, the same shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the owner permitted it to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 2.0102) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate or prohibit the running at large of animals, see SDCL § 9-
29-12
§ 90.003 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, KEEPER, CARETAKER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain any condition or operate any
equipment or keep any animal, fowl, pet, or insect under his or her
jurisdiction in such a way that such condition or operation causes or is likely
to cause the transmission of diseases from animals or insects to humans or from
animals or insects to other animals.
   (B)   No owner, keeper, caretaker, or attendant of an animal shall allow an
animal to defecate or urinate on public or private property other than his own.
If such animal does defecate or urinate upon public or private property, the
owner, keeper, caretaker, or attendant must immediately and thoroughly clean
the fecal matter from such property.
   (C)   Anyone walking an animal on public or private property other than his
or her own must carry with him or her visible means of cleaning up any fecal
matter left by the animal. Animals used in parades or involved in law
enforcement are exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.0103) Penalty, see §
90.999   
§ 90.004 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal may be declared to be vicious by the Animal Control Officer,
the City Council, or the attending physician of the victim of an animal bite or
scratch may request such declaration, under the following guidelines:
      (1)   An animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches in
an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury, assaults, or
otherwise attacks, a person or other animal upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds or places;
      (2)   An animal which, on private property, in a vicious or terrifying
manner, approaches in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, or inflicts
injury, or otherwise attacks, a postal worker, meter reader, service person,
delivery person, or other employed person, or other animal who is on private
property by reason of permission of the owner or occupant of such property or
who is on private property by reason of a course of dealing with the owner or
occupant of such private property; and
      (3)   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is
sustained to any person or animal who is committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal, or who was
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
   (B)   When an animal is declared to be vicious, the Animal Control Officer
shall notify the owner of such declaration in writing that such animal must be
registered as a vicious animal within five business days after the date of such
written notice. Said notice may be served in person or by mailing such notice
by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   The owner of an animal that has been declared vicious shall make
application to the Animal Control Officer to register such vicious animal and
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The owner of the animal shall notify the Animal Control Officer of
any changes in the following:
         (a)   Ownership of the animal;
         (b)   Name, street address, and telephone number of new owner;
         (c)   Address change of the owner or any change in where the animal is
housed;
         (d)   Any change in the health status of the animal; or
         (e)   Death of the animal.
      (2)   Whenever the animal is indoors, the animal shall be under the
control of a person over the age of 18 years old.
      (3)   Whenever the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than six feet in length and under the control of
a person over the age of 18 years old.
      (4)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in a fully-enclosed escape-proof kennel approved in advance by the Animal
Control Officer. Minimum standards to qualify as a fully-enclosed escape-proof
kennel shall include the following:
         (a)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of
more than two inches; in the case of a wooden fence the gaps shall not be more
than two inches;
         (b)   Any gates within such pen or structure shall be lockable and of
such design to prevent the entry or children or the escape of the animal;
         (c)   The required pen or structure shall have secure sides and a
secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be imbedded into the ground or concrete;
         (d)   The pen or structure may be required to have double exterior
walls to prevent the insertion of fingers, hands, or other objects; and
         (e)   The pen shall protect the animal from the elements.
      (5)   The animal shall be permanently identified by injecting an
identification microchip into the animal using standard veterinarian procedures
and practices. The number and the veterinarian who injected the animal shall be
provided to the Animal Control Officer.
      (6)   A universal sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed
prominently on the kennel or enclosure and on a place visible from the sidewalk
or road adjacent to the property where the animal is kept.
      (7)   The owner shall carry liability insurance with liability limits of
not less than $100,000 per occurrence and covering the medical and/or
veterinary costs resulting from the vicious actions or any other damage the
animal may do or cause to be done. Written proof of such insurance coverage
shall be provided to the Animal Control Officer upon request.
      (8)   The owner shall present proof of current rabies vaccination and
current city license of the animal to the Animal Control Officer upon request.
      (9)   The owner shall cause the animal to be spayed or neutered to
prevent reproduction. The owner shall provide proof that the animal has been
spayed or neutered to prevent reproduction to the Animal Control Officer upon
request.
   (D)   The vicious animal shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer at
the owner’s expense until such time as all the requirements of divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(9), inclusive, are met.
   (E)   If the requirements in division (C)(1) through (C)(9), inclusive, are
not complied with, the animal shall be euthanized in a humane manner and proof
of euthanasia shall be filed with the Animal Control Officer.
   (F)   (1)   A vicious animal found off the premises of its owner, other than
as provided for in this chapter, shall be seized by the Animal Control Officer
or any law enforcement officer and impounded, at the owner’s expense. If the
animal cannot be captured, it may be destroyed. If the animal has been running
at large, or bites a person, or bites another animal, the Animal Control
Officer or any law enforcement officer may order the owner to deliver the
animal to an animal shelter within 24 hours and the owner shall be ordered to
appear in court to show cause why this animal shall not be destroyed.
      (2)   If the owner of the animal fails to deliver the animal as ordered,
the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall use such means
as are necessary to impound the animal.
(Prior Code, § 2.0104) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Vicious dogs, see SDCL § 40-34-13 et seq.
§ 90.005 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of an animal shall not allow the animal to
create a disturbance by making loud noises any time of the night or day.
   (B)   Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may remove and impound
any animal that is disturbing the peace when the owner of the animal cannot be
located. A notice advising the owner of the impoundment shall be left on the
premises.
   (C)   Any person having custody or control of any female dog or cat in heat
shall be required to keep such dog or cat confined in a building, secure
enclosure, veterinary hospital, or boarding kennel so that it cannot attract or
come into contact with another animal on public or private property except for
controlled breeding purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2.0105) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall maltreat or abuse or neglect any animal or fowl. Any Animal
Control Officer finding an animal or fowl mistreated as described in this
section shall have the power to lawfully enter the premises where the animal is
kept and demand to examine such animal and to take possession of such animal
when, in his or her opinion, the animal requires humane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 2.0106) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see SDCL Ch. 40-1
   Municipal authority to prohibit and punish cruelty to animals, see SDCL § 9-
29-11 
§ 90.007 STRAY, ABANDONED OR UNKEPT ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any stray animals. Animals known to be strays
shall be immediately reported to the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.0107) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 POISONING ANIMALS.
   Unless approved by the City Council, it shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously administer or cause to be administered poison of any
sort whatsoever to any animal, the property of another, with the intent to
injure or destroy such animal, or to willfully or maliciously place any poison
or poisoned food where such is accessible to any such animal.
(Prior Code, § 2.0108) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any animal within the city unless such animal is
of a type commonly regarded as a domestic animal (see definition of PET in §
90.001 of this chapter), unless otherwise allowed by special exception of the
City Council. The keeping of animals on any personal land in the city shall not
be on a scale creating a nuisance. This prohibition includes the domestic fowl
of the order Galliformes and Gallinaceous birds (fowl-like birds), and the
order Anseriformes (water fowl) and also includes raptors (birds of prey) and
common farm animals such as cows, pigs, horses, and sheep.
   (B)   It is considered a nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to
keep and maintain (other than the care and treatment of injured or abandoned
birds and animals by people licensed for that purpose) or to sell native fur
bearers, bears, mountain lions, bobcats, lynx, panthers, endangered species,
exotic cats, or venomous snakes or other reptiles.
   (C)   It is considered a nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to
keep and maintain any animal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally tame or
gentle, but is of a wild nature or disposition and which because of its size,
nature, or other characteristics (such as being poisonous or carnivorous) would
constitute a danger to human life or property if it escaped from secure
quarters, and it is further considered a nuisance and unlawful for any person
to keep and maintain any domestic animal, reptile, or fowl which because of its
size or vicious propensity or other characteristic would constitute a danger to
persons or other animals.
   (D)   It is considered a nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to
create or maintain any condition, or keep any animal, fowl, pet, or insect
under his or her jurisdiction in such a way that such condition or operation
causes or is likely to cause the transmission of diseases from animals or
insects to humans or from animals or insects to other animals.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the keeping of Felis catus
(the domestic cat), Mustela putorius furo (the European polecat otherwise known
as the ferret), or Canis familiaris (the domestic dog), as long as the
requirements of this chapter are followed.
   (F)   Possession of raptors for any reason or purpose is prohibited within
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 2.0109) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 TYPE AND NUMBER OF ANIMALS THAT MAY BE KEPT.
   It is unlawful for any person to have or to keep more than four domestic
pets over the age of six months, except birds and fish, on any lot or premises
in the city, unless the City Council grants an exception. The City Council
shall have the authority to limit the number of animals, whether household pets
or otherwise, kept by any person. In granting any exceptions, the Council may
consider proximity to city limits, land area involved or available, location to
heavily residential areas, and other individual criteria. Veterinarian clinics
and retail pet stores are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.0110) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 ABANDONING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon an animal in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.0111) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.012 TRAPPING OR HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Trapping of animals. No person without permission of the city shall
set, allow to be set, or use any trap for the purpose of catching any animal,
which trap could injure or kill any animal, except rodent traps in the interior
of a building, and except by persons employed by or agents of the city for
purposes of the city’s health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 2.0112)
   (B)   Hunting prohibited.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         GAME.  Any bird or animal hunted for sport or for use as food.
         HUNT.  To pursue game while in possession of a firearm or weapon for
sport, food, or to kill.
      (2)   No person shall hunt game in the city by any means whatsoever. This
section does not apply to law enforcement officers or Animal Control Officers
in the discharge of their official duties or to individuals allowed by special
exception of the City Council to trap or hunt birds or animals as a matter of
city business.
(Prior Code, § 2.0113) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.013 RECORD OF BITES.
   The Animal Control Officer shall keep an accurate record of all animal
bites.
(Prior Code, § 2.0114) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.014 ENFORCEMENT; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Animal Control Officer or designated Animal Control
Agency is authorized to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and may
issue citations for violations of any section or may issue warning tickets
requiring correction of a violation.
(Prior Code, § 2.0115)
   (B)   Failure to comply with warning ticket. It is unlawful for any person
to fail or refuse to comply with the provisions or requirements of a warning
ticket lawfully issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0116) Penalty, see §
90.999
LICENSING
§ 90.025 LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   Each owner or keeper of a dog or cat of the age of six months or over shall,
within 30 days of the acquisition of such animal or within 30 days of the time
such animal becomes six months old, cause such animal to be licensed at the
animal shelter. A rabies immunization certificate and the appropriate fee must
accompany all applications for license certificates.
(Prior Code, § 2.0201) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE CERTIFICATE AND TAG.
   (A)   Every owner or keeper of a dog or cat within the city must submit an
application for animal license for each animal owned that is six months old or
older and a renewal application on or before June 30 of each succeeding year.
All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at midnight, June 30,
whether issued for a full year or any part thereof. The application form shall
be furnished by the city or its designated Animal Control Agency. A rabies
immunization certificate and the appropriate fee as shown above must accompany
all applications for license certificates and renewals.
   (B)   A certificate and tag shall be issued upon receipt of proper
application or license. The certificate shall at all times be in the possession
of the owner. The tag shall be affixed to the licensed animal in a secure
manner at all times. The owner shall contact animal control to report change of
ownership, loss, or death of a licensed animal.
   (C)   If a tag or certificate is lost, either may be replaced for a fee of
$1 by applying to the city or its designated animal control agency.
(Prior Code, § 2.0202) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The fee for an original and a renewal dog or cat license shall be as
follows:
 
Neutered male dog or cat   $5
Spayed female dog or cat   $5
Unneutered male dog or cat $10
Unspayed female dog or cat $10
 
   (B)   The City Council may in special circumstances, after a hearing by the
Board, exempt the license fee in individual cases.
   (C)   The fee for designated licensing agencies shall be as follows: Places
of business designated by the City Council to make available animal licenses to
owners as a convenience may charge up to $1 for each new or renewal license in
order to defray the costs of providing the licensing service and the
recordkeeping expense associated therewith.
   (D)   Dogs which are used by the visually impaired or otherwise disabled as
“seeing-eye” dogs and service dogs are hereby exempt from the provisions of
this chapter, except those provisions relating to the requirement that all dogs
and other animals be vaccinated against rabies and regarding vicious animals. A
dog is designated as a service dog when the condition of person using the
animal meets the legal definition of disability and when the animal is trained
to perform tasks that mitigate the owner’s disability. The City Council shall
determine when a particular animal is a “seeing-eye” dog or a service dog and
confirm the owner thereof is visually impaired or his or her condition meets
the legal definition of disability for the purposes of this exclusion.
(Prior Code, § 2.0203)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.040 COOPERATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall cooperate with the State Department of
Health, the State Livestock Sanitary Board, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
the U.S. Public Health Service, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, state and
local veterinary associations and any other county, state, or federal agency
concerned with the control of rabies, in a combined effort to reduce rabies in
wildlife and domestic animals. The City Council shall have authority to
institute such additional measures for the control of rabies as may be deemed
necessary by the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.0301)
§ 90.041 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dog, cat, or other animal susceptible to rabies, held as a
domestic pet in the city, six months of age or older, is hereby required to be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian or other qualified person
designated by the Animal Control Officer. Vaccinations against rabies shall be
given at the following intervals, either multi-year or one-year, recommended by
the Center for Disease Control:
      (1)   Multi-year rabies vaccinations:
         (a)   Primary vaccination at age 12 weeks to 6 months;
         (b)   Vaccination one year after the primary vaccination; and
         (c)   Vaccinations every three years thereafter.
OR
      (2)   One-year rabies vaccinations:
         (a)   Primary vaccination at age 12 weeks to 6 months;
         (b)   Vaccination one year after the primary vaccination; and
         (c)   Vaccinations every year thereafter.
   (B)   Any owner acquiring a dog, cat, or other animal by purchase, gift,
birth, or otherwise shall have such animal vaccinated against rabies within one
month following acquisition or when the animal reaches the age of six months.
The animal shall thereafter be required to receive vaccinations at intervals
set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.0302) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Impounded animals. Any impounded animal shall not be released by the
Animal Control Officer to any person until such animal has been vaccinated
against rabies; provided, however, no animal so impounded shall be vaccinated
if the owner can present a certificate of a current vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 2.0303)
   (B)   Impounding for observation.
      (1)   When any person owning or harboring a dog, cat, or other animal has
been notified that the animal has bitten or attacked any person, the owner must
within 24 hours place the animal under the care and observation of the Animal
Control Officer or a licensed veterinarian for a period of not less than ten
days. In those cases when an animal has bitten or attacked while on the
premises of the owner and the owner has a current rabies vaccination for the
animal the Animal Control Officer may, if he or she feels the facilities are
adequate and if the owner is a responsible person, quarantine the animal on the
owner’s premises. In this case the owner must sign a statement and understand
the responsibility and assume the liability that is involved with the
quarantine of an animal that has bitten. The quarantined animal must at all
times be available for inspection during the quarantine.
      (2)   At the end of the ten-day observation period, the animal shall be
examined by the Animal Control Officer and, if cleared, may be reclaimed by the
owner and the owner must pay the expense incurred incident thereto.
      (3)   Any animal impounded or placed for observation, showing active
signs of rabies, suspected of having rabies or known to have been exposed to
rabies shall be confined under competent observation for such time as may be
deemed necessary to determine a diagnosis.
      (4)   Any animal that has bitten or attacked that cannot be captured may
be destroyed in such a manner that the head is not damaged and can be submitted
for a rabies examination to a laboratory.
      (5)   Any animal that has bitten any person may be euthanized by order of
the Animal Control Officer or a physician or a veterinarian from the Board of
Health unless proof of a current rabies vaccination effected not less than 30
days prior to the bite is provided within 24 hours of the bite. Any animal that
has bitten any person may be euthanized by order of the Animal Control Officer
if in such person’s opinion, based upon sound medical judgment, a greater risk
to human life exists by not so doing. In making such a determination, the
Animal Control Officer shall take into consideration the following factors:
         (a)   The history of the animal including the possibility of its
exposure to rabies;
         (b)   The vaccination record of the animal;
         (c)   The health of the animal;
         (d)   The nature, location, and seriousness of the bite;
         (e)   The circumstances surrounding the bite including whether or not
the bite was provoked; and
         (f)   The tolerance of the person bitten to the vaccines used for
treatment.
      (6)   The city shall, in the case of an animal bite, follow the
procedures stated in the current Compendium of Animal Rabies Control published
by the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., and
endorsed by the Center for Disease Control.
(Prior Code, § 2.0304)
§ 90.043 KEEPING RABID ANIMALS.
   No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any animal infected with rabies or
any animal known to have come in contact with an animal known to have been
infected with rabies unless such animal has current rabies shots. In such case
the procedure stated in the current Compendium of Animal Rabies Control shall
be followed.
(Prior Code, § 2.0305) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 REPORT OF SUSPECTED CASES.
   (A)   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the city is infected
with rabies shall report the animal to the Animal Control Officer, describing
the animal and giving the name and address of the owner if known.
(Prior Code, § 2.0306)
   (B)   Veterinarians within the city receiving information or reports of
suspected rabies in wild animals or domestic animals shall report such
information to the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.0307)
   (C)   Physicians within the city, immediately upon treatment of any person
bitten by an animal, shall report such information to the Animal Control
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.0308) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045 DESTRUCTION OF RABID ANIMALS.
   The Animal Control Officer or a veterinarian may destroy any rabid animal.
(Prior Code, § 2.0309)
§ 90.046 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever the Animal Control Officer shall have determined that there is
danger of the existence or spread of rabies in the city, he or she shall make
the facts known to the Mayor in writing. The Mayor, upon receipt of such facts,
may, by proclamation in the interest of public safety and general welfare of
the citizenry, order all animals muzzled when off the premises of the owner.
Forty-eight hours after the publication of the proclamation, all animals found
off the premises of the owner un-muzzled shall be seized and impounded or may
be immediately destroyed if all reasonable efforts to seize the animals fail.
All animals seized and impounded shall be held for observation for ten days,
and if cleared by a licensed veterinarian, may be claimed by the owner and the
owner must pay the expenses incidental thereto. Any animal not claimed may be
disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 2.0310)
IMPOUNDING
§ 90.060 ENFORCEMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer or
designated Animal Control Agency to carry out and enforce all the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0401)
   (B)   Authority. The Animal Control Officer, any law enforcement officer, or
any other person of proper authority may impound any animal found within the
city in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0402)
§ 90.061 INTERFERENCE WITH PERFORMANCE OF DUTY.
   No person shall hinder, delay, or obstruct the Animal Control Officer or any
other person or agency authorized by the city when engaged in capturing,
securing, destroying, or impounding any animal or animals.
(Prior Code, § 2.0402) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   (A)   Any animal held or impounded shall be released to the owner thereof
upon payment or reimbursement of all costs incurred by the city, the Animal
Control Officer, the animal shelter, or its authorized representatives in
capturing, restraining, and impounding the animal, including, but not limited
to: travel expenses in the event a special trip or trips is required at times
other than normal patrol within the city, the cost of tranquilizer darts and
related apparatus, meals, supplies, boarding fees and costs, plus the
impoundment fee as set out below:
      (1)   First violation - $30;
      (2)   Second violation within a 12-month period - $50; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period - see
general penalty in §
90.999.
   (B)   The daily boarding costs, veterinary services, and impoundment fee are
in addition to any penalties, which may be imposed for a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0403)
§ 90.063 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, if
his or her identity and location can be obtained by reasonable means, shall be
notified within 24 hours that his or her animal has been impounded.
(Prior Code, § 2.0405)
§ 90.064 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Requirements for redemption. In addition to payment as set forth in §
90.062, before any person may redeem any animal impounded under the provisions
of this chapter, that person shall be required to provide proof of current
rabies vaccination and a valid current license.
(Prior Code, § 2.0404)
   (B)   Redemption by person other than owner. If the owner of any animal
impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall fail to redeem such
animal, after the impoundment period, any other person may, upon complying with
the provisions of this chapter, redeem such animal from the designated Animal
Control agency and be the lawful owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.0406)
§ 90.065 DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is wearing a license or other means of
identification, the animal shall be confined for a period of three days (72
hours), including Sundays but excluding holidays.
   (B)   If an impounded animal is not wearing a license or other means of
identification, the animal shall be impounded for a period not to exceed three
days (72 hours), including Sundays but excluding holidays. The Animal Control
Officer may dispose of animals confined under this section after the period of
confinement period by any humane means.
(Prior Code, § 2.0407)
§ 90.066 RECORDS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall keep accurate records of all animals
impounded and released including the date and from whom received, the
description of the animal, and the name and address of the person receiving the
animal. He or she shall also keep an accurate count and description of animals
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 2.0408) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 INJURED OR ABUSED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Injured animals.
      (1)   If an animal without identification is injured and the owner cannot
be found, it will be the duty of the Animal Control Officer or designated
Animal Control Agency to determine if that animal for humane reasons, due to
the extent of the injury and the suffering, shall be destroyed. The city and
Animal Control Officer shall be immune from liability for this humane act.
      (2)   If an injured animal with a license tag issued by the city is
picked up, it shall, if possible, be delivered to a licensed veterinarian. The
animal owner must pay all expenses of the city and the veterinarian charges and
fees.
(Prior Code, § 2.0410)
   (B)   Abused animals. In cases where an animal or animals have been seized
by the Animal Control Officer or designated animal control agency based upon
abuse, neglect, cruelty, or abandonment, such animal or animals may be adopted
by another person or humanely euthanized thereby extinguishing all property
rights of the existing owner, all in accordance with the following:
      (1)   If the owner of the animal is known, the Animal Control Officer or
the animal shelter shall provide notice to the owner, which notice shall inform
the owner of the animal shelter’s intent to dispose of the animal.
      (2)   The owner shall have a period of three business days to:
         (a)   Declare in writing and deliver to the animal shelter:
            1.   Notice of said owner’s intent to maintain ownership of the
animal and to object to the adoption or euthanasia thereof; and
            2.   Notice that said owner shall pay when due all impoundment,
board, and veterinary costs until such time as the animal shall be released to
said owner or be adopted or euthanized.
         (b)   Pay all impoundment, board, and veterinary costs, up to the date
of the owner’s declaration of intent to maintain his or her ownership of said
animal to the animal shelter.
      (3)   Upon notification of said owner’s intent to maintain ownership of
the animal and the objection to the adoption or euthanasia thereof, said owner
shall continue said payments to the animal shelter for impoundment, board, and
veterinary costs on a weekly basis until such time as the animal shall be
released to said owner or be adopted or euthanized.
      (4)   If the owner fails to declare his or her intent to maintain
ownership of the animal or fails to make any payment in a timely manner, or if
the identity of the owner is unknown or if notice to the owner cannot otherwise
be made, the ownership of the animal will be transferred to the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0411)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except in sections where a different or additional penalty is imposed
within this chapter or by applicable statute, each violation of each provision
of this chapter is a separate offense and if any violation continues for more
than an incident or day, as the case may be, each separate incident or day
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (1)   A warning ticket may be issued upon the first offense in violation
of this section. Fines for each violation of each provision of this chapter
shall be assessed and payable as follows:
         (a)   First violation - $50;
         (b)   Second violation within a 12-month period - $95; and
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period shall
be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in the county jail
not longer than 30 days, or shall receive both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   In addition to fines and penalties, the Animal Control Officer or
designated Animal Control Agency may impound the animal at the owner's expense.
(Prior Code, § 2.0117)
   (B)   Fines for each violation of §
90.002 shall be assessed and payable as follows:
      (1)   First violation, each animal - $95;
      (2)   Second violation within a 12-month period, each animal - $145; and
      (3)   Each additional offense - $175.
(Prior Code, § 2.0102)
   (C)   Fines for each violation of required licensure as required under §
90.025 of this chapter shall be assessed and payable as follows:
      (1)   First violation, each animal - $50;
      (2)   Second violation within a 12-month period, each animal - $75; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in the county jail not
longer than 30 days, or shall receive both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 2.0204)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Street names
   
91.02   Moving buildings
Excavation and Construction
   
91.15   Street excavations
   
91.16   Sidewalk construction specifications
    
91.17   Driveway approaches
   
91.18   Curb and gutter
   
91.19   Permits
   
91.20   Barrier-free construction
   
91.21   Gas and electric lines
   
91.22   Obstructions, encroachment, and prohibited conduct
   
91.23   Annual street maintenance
Snow Removal
   
91.35   Definition
   
91.36   Duty to remove
   
91.37   Notice
   
91.38   City may remove
   
91.39   Disposal of snow and ice
   
91.40   Declaration of snow removal alert
   
91.41   Parking during snow removal alert
   
91.42   No authorization for otherwise prohibited or restricted parking
   
91.43   Emergency snow routes
   
91.44   City to be held harmless
   
91.45   Cancellation of snow removal alert
   
91.46   Violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 STREET NAMES.
   The names of all streets and avenues in the city shall be fixed and adopted
in accordance with the official map of the city on file in the Finance Office.
All east-west thoroughfares shall be designated as streets and all north-south
thoroughfares shall be designated as avenues. Any such act of naming,
establishing, or vacating any street, alley, or other public way in the city
shall be so designated on such map.
(Prior Code, § 6.0101)
§ 91.02 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall move any building or part of a
building into, along, or across any public street, alley, or grounds in the
city without having obtained a moving permit from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0401)
   (B)   Applications. Written application for a moving permit shall be filed
with the Finance Officer, and shall include the name and address of the
applicant, the name and address of the owner of the building, a description of
the lot on which the building sits, a description of the lot on which it is to
be moved, if located in the city, the route along which it is proposed to move
such building, and the length of time it may take in such moving. The City
Council may specify any conditions to be complied with by the applicant in
moving the building.
(Prior Code, § 6.0402)
   (C)   Bond. No permit shall be granted until the applicant shall file with
the Finance Officer a bond to the city in the penal sum to be established by
the City Council, and sufficient surety, conditioned that the applicant will
promptly repair and make good, to the satisfaction of the Council, any and all
damage to any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant, street, alley, or other
property done or caused by himself or herself or of his or her employees, in
moving such building or part thereof. The applicant shall indemnify and save
harmless the city against any and all liability for damages, costs and
expenses, arising or which may arise or be incurred in favor of any person by
reason of any negligence or misconduct or act on his or her part or the part of
his or her agents or employees, in connection with the moving of said building
or part thereof, or the use of any public ground for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6.0403)
   (D)   Standing buildings. No building or part of a building being moved,
shall be allowed to stand still in any public street or any public ground for
more than 24 consecutive hours.
(Prior Code, § 6.0404)
   (E)   Permission of property owners. No moving permit granted by the city
shall authorized the holder thereof to break, injure, or move any telephone,
electric light, power, or cable TV wire or pole, or to cut, trim, or otherwise
interfere with any property without the written permission of the owner or
owners thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.0405) Penalty, see §
91.99 
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-2
EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.15 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Approval required. No person shall make or cause to be made any
excavation except as hereafter provided, in or under any street, sidewalk,
alley, or public ground or remove any earth, soil, paving, gravel, or materials
therefrom without first having obtained approval from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0201)
   (B)   Excavation permits. Application for such approval shall state where
such excavation is to be made, the extent thereof, and the purpose of such
excavation. Applications for excavations may require a deposit bond, or other
security, in such sum as deemed necessary by the City Council to ensure the
proper replacement and refilling of any such excavation or to cover the costs
of any damages which may be caused by such excavation. Any required deposit,
bond, or other security shall be paid to the city before approval of the
application is made, and any unused portion of said deposit shall be refunded
to the applicant upon recommendation and approval of the City Council. Any
excavation of an emergency nature may be approved by the Mayor on such deposit,
bond, or other security and on such conditions as he or she shall set.
(Prior Code, § 6.0202)
   (C)   Excavation warranty. All excavations shall require a two-year guaranty
or warranty by the contractor or other person doing the excavating.
(Prior Code, § 6.0203)
   (D)   Excavation repairs. Approval for any excavation covered by this
section shall be issued only upon the express condition that the applicant
shall refill such excavation in accordance with the requirements of the City
Council, and shall restore the pavement or surfacing, as the case may be, to
its former condition. The City Council shall adopt and amend as necessary such
requirements which shall set forth the manner in which various types of
excavations shall be backfilled or refilled and the manner in which any street
surfacing shall be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 6.0204)
   (E)   Excavation inspections. The city shall be authorized to inspect all
excavation work at any stage of construction, to ensure compliance with
approved requirements. If all backfilling, refilling, or surfacing is not
completed in accordance with approved requirements, notice thereof in writing
shall be given to the applicant, who shall put the same in proper order. If the
applicant fails after such notice to complete all requirements, the City
Council may authorize the necessary repairs and such applicant shall pay the
costs thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.0205)
   (F)   Excavation barriers. Any person receiving approval to make excavations
in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground shall, during the
progress and continuance of the work, erect and maintain around the same both
day and night suitable guards, fences, flares, and signals so as to prevent
injury to persons, animals, or vehicles on account of such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 6.0206) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalk construction shall be in conformity with the specifications of
the city’s engineer. When considered necessary and advisable for the peace,
welfare, and safety of the people, the City Council may direct that new
sidewalk be constructed and assessed to abutting property owner in accordance
with SDCL § 9-46.
(Prior Code, § 6.0207) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   No driveway approaches shall protrude or extend into the streets beyond the
curb line, unless otherwise so authorized by the City Council. Concrete
driveway approaches shall be constructed in conformity with the specifications
of the city’s engineer. On gravel thoroughfares, driveway approaches
constructed shall permit flow of surface water without drainage interference
and shall permit proper blading and maintaining of streets.
(Prior Code, § 6.0208) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 CURB AND GUTTER.
   All new residential and commercial construction shall install curb and
gutter, adjacent to the property where such construction occurs in conformity
with the specifications of the city’s engineer. The City Council shall reserve
the right to direct that curb and gutter be constructed and the cost assessed
against any abutting property owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.0209)
§ 91.19 PERMITS.
   When constructed separately from an overall construction project, property
owners or their agents shall submit applications for permits for approval by
the City Council for sidewalks, driveway approaches, curbs, or curb and gutter,
when these improvements are constructed simultaneously or as one project, only
one application is necessary to include all improvements, and where any or all
are part of a new construction project, only one permit for the overall
construction shall be issued. All improvements, installations, and engineering
recommendations shall be in conformance with specifications or recommendations
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0210) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 BARRIER-FREE CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever any person, firm, or corporation makes new installations of
sidewalks, curbs, or gutters, in both business and residential areas, it shall
be required that they install ramps at crosswalks, so as to make the transition
from street to sidewalk easily negotiable for handicapped persons in
wheelchairs and for blind persons. Any ramp shall be constructed or installed
in accordance with design specifications therefor prepared by the Department of
Transportation, according to the Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities as published by the U.S. Architectural
and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, August, 1992.
(Prior Code, § 6.0211) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-1.2
§ 91.21 GAS AND ELECTRIC LINES.
   No excavation shall result in any trench containing both gas (of any nature)
and electric lines.
(Prior Code, § 6.0212) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 OBSTRUCTIONS, ENCROACHMENT, AND PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The city shall have the power to regulate the use of all streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and other public grounds and property within the city; and to that
end, no person shall place any obstructions or other encroachments on the same,
nor shall any person injure the same in any manner, nor shall any person
deface, draw on, write on, or otherwise place any mark on, whether temporary or
permanent, any such street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground or
property, nor shall any person engage in any practice thereon which may have a
tendency to annoy any other person frequenting or using the same; unless prior
specific approval has been obtained from the City Council therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.0213) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-2
§ 91.23 ANNUAL STREET MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Designation of lots to be assessed. Pursuant to SDCL § 9-43-138, all
lots in the city fronting a street shall be assessed on the front foot basis.
   (B)   Amount of assessment. There shall be levied upon all lots fronting a
street $0.90 cents per front foot. Front foot means the actual front foot of
the premises as established by the buildings thereon, record title and use of
the property regardless of the original plat.
   (C)   Assessment. The City Finance Officer is directed to add such
assessment to the general assessment against the property and certify the
assessment together with the regular assessment to the county auditor to be
collected as municipal taxes for general purposes.
   (D)   Assessment subject to review. The assessment is subject to review and
equalization the same as assessments or taxes for general purposes.
(Res. 2020-07, passed 10-13-2020)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 91.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET.  The entire width of any public roadway within the city and it shall
not be limited to those roadways designated as a STREET, but includes avenues,
boulevards, and all other names by which public roadways are designated.
(Prior Code, § 6.0312)
§ 91.36 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   The duties of owners, tenants, or persons in possession of any property are
as follows:
   (A)   Sidewalks. It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or person in
possession of any property abutting on any sidewalk to keep such sidewalk free
from snow and ice and to remove or cause to be removed all accumulation of snow
or ice within 24 hours after every fall or accumulation of snow or ice.
   (B)   Sidewalks ending at intersection or crosswalk. It shall be the duty of
the owner, tenant, or person in possession of any property abutting upon any
sidewalk which ends at an intersection or crosswalk to remove or cause to be
removed all accumulation of snow or ice within 24 hours after every fall or
accumulation of snow or ice. Snow and ice deposited on the sidewalk in the
street removal process shall be removed within 24 hours of being deposited.
   (C)   Mailboxes. It shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant, or
person in possession of any property upon which any mailbox is affixed to keep
the immediate area around such mailbox free from snow and ice in such a manner
so as not to obstruct or interfere with the delivery or collection of the
United States mail, and to remove or cause to be removed all accumulation of
snow or ice within 24 hours after every fall or accumulation of snow or ice.
Snow and ice deposited around any mailbox in the street removal process shall
be removed within 24 hours of being deposited.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. It shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant, or
person in possession of any property upon which any fire hydrant is affixed to
keep the immediate area around such fire hydrant free from snow and ice in such
a manner so as not to obstruct or interfere with access to the fire hydrant,
and to remove or cause to be removed all accumulation of snow or ice within 24
hours after every fall or accumulation of snow or ice. Snow and ice must be
removed from at least a three-foot radius around any fire hydrant, and at least
a two-foot wide path must be cleared between the fire hydrant and the nearest
city street. Snow and ice deposited around any fire hydrant in the street
removal process shall be removed within 24 hours of being deposited.
   (E)   Sanding sidewalks. In the event that snow or ice on a sidewalk have
become so hard that such accumulation cannot be removed without the likelihood
of damage to the sidewalk, the owner, tenant, or person in possession charged
with the removal of such accumulation shall, within 24 hours, cause enough sand
or other abrasive to be put on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably
safe and shall then, as soon thereafter as weather permits, remove or cause to
be removed all accumulation of snow or ice within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 6.0301) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 NOTICE.
   The city shall provide notice on the official city website that each owner,
tenant, or person in possession is required to keep the sidewalk in front of
the premises free and clear from snow and ice. It shall state that if the
owner, tenant, or person in possession fails to remove the snow or ice within
24 hours of the falling or accumulation hereof, that the city may cause said
snow or ice to be removed and charge the cost to the abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 6.0302)
§ 91.38 CITY MAY REMOVE.
   If the owner, tenant, or person in possession of property fails to remove
the snow or ice from the sidewalks within the time specified, any authorized
officer of the city, as designated by the Mayor, may issue a citation for such
violation and the City Council may authorize such removal with the costs to be
assessed against the abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 6.0303)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-5
§ 91.39 DISPOSAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The property owner, tenant, person in possession, or person removing snow or
ice from any sidewalk, public or private driveway, parking lot, or parking area
shall dispose of accumulated snow and ice upon such property as follows:
   (A)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited on any sidewalk.
   (B)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited on any public street or alley.
   (C)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited so as to obstruct or interfere
with the passage or vision of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited upon or around any mailbox so as
to obstruct or interfere with the delivery or collection of the United States
mail.
   (E)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited upon or around any fire hydrant,
as specified above, so as to obstruct or interfere with access to the fire
hydrant.
   (F)   Snow and ice shall be disposed of upon the property from which it was
removed.
(Prior Code, § 6.0304) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 DECLARATION OF SNOW REMOVAL ALERT.
   A snow removal alert will occur automatically with the accumulation of two
inches of snow on the public streets or when the Mayor or Maintenance
Supervisor determines that snow removal from the public streets will commence
and announces a snow removal alert. The announcement shall be through the local
news media and whatever other sources are available. The announcement shall
indicate that the provisions of this subchapter will be effective and will be
enforced. The announcement shall also designate the date and time when the
alert begins. The determination to declare a snow removal alert will be based
on the then existing weather conditions, and the amount of snow then on the
ground or expected according to forecasts from weather forecasting services.
(Prior Code, § 6.0305)
§ 91.41 PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL ALERT.
   (A)   During any snow removal alert, parking of vehicles on any public
street, or leaving any other movable property item upon any public street
within the city shall be prohibited, on both sides of any street and regardless
of the directional run of any street. Off-street parking will be made available
for residents on the north side of the Baltic Lounge parking lot and on the
south New Baltic Heights Park parking lot.
   (B)   Violations of this section, such that the plow cannot make its initial
pass, shall subject the vehicle or property item to immediate removal by or at
the direction of the city, without notice to the owner or person in control or
possession thereof. Removal shall be at the expense and risk of the owner or
person in control or possession thereof. The removal, at the direction of the
city, may be done by city crews or by private tow truck, wrecker, or other
operator, without risk or liability to the city or private business person
doing the removal. Once removed, the vehicle or other property item removed
shall be impounded by the city or private business person until the owner or
persons in control or possession shall pay the towing and storage charges.
   (C)   Any violation shall subject the owner or person in control or
possession of any vehicle or other movable property item to citation and fine
therefor, as set forth in §
91.99.
   (D)   Parking will be allowed on St. Olaf Avenue after all snow has been
removed from that street from curb to curb.
(Prior Code, § 6.0306) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 NO AUTHORIZATION FOR OTHERWISE PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Nothing in this subchapter authorizes parking a vehicle where otherwise
prohibited or restricted, by signs or otherwise, to include emergency snow
route signs.
(Prior Code, § 6.0307)
§ 91.43 EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect the application and enforcement of
any city rules or regulations pertaining to emergency snow routes that the
Council may from time to time designate, which emergency snow routes may have
stricter standards than those prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.0308)
§ 91.44 CITY TO BE HELD HARMLESS.
   City crews have the right to push and pile snow on all city streets and
rights-of-way. The city will be held harmless of any damage done to property
that is in city streets and rights-of-way, including, but not limited to,
mailboxes.
(Prior Code, § 6.0310)
§ 91.45 CANCELLATION OF SNOW REMOVAL ALERT.
   A snow removal alert may be canceled if less than two inches of snow
accumulation occurs. This cancellation will be announced through local news
media and whatever other sources are available. Upon cancellation of a snow
removal alert, normal parking may be resumed until the next declared snow
removal alert.
(Prior Code, § 6.0311)
§ 91.46 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful to violate any provision of this subchapter. Fines for the
violation of this subchapter are set forth in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 6.0313)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The fine for prohibited or restricted parking as set forth in §
91.41 shall be as established by resolution of the City Council. The fine for
violation of §
91.36 shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The fine for
violation of §
91.39 shall be established by resolution of the City Council. All fines for
violations identified herein shall be payable at the City Hall within five days
from issuance. In the event of a failure to pay such fine within five days or
in the event of a not guilty plea, the matter shall be heard by the magistrate
court of the Second Judicial Circuit which shall impose a fine not to exceed
that amount permitted by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6.0309)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Littering
   
92.02   Starting or maintaining fires
   
92.03   Pesticides
   
92.04   Maintenance of premises
Nuisances
   
92.15   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.16   Lawful authority
   
92.17   Public nuisance not legalized by passage of time
   
92.18   Liability of successive owners
   
92.19   City inspection
   
92.20   Notice to abate; when notice not required
   
92.21   Failure to comply
   
92.22   Appeal
   
92.23   City abatement; cost
   
92.24   Assessment in lieu of civil action
   
92.25   Remedies
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.40   Definitions
   
92.41   Keeping abandoned vehicle on real property or improvements
   
92.42   Exemptions
   
92.43   Removal
   
92.44   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
92.45   Modification of state law
   
92.46   Notice to remove
   
92.47   Responsibility for removal
   
92.48   Notice procedure
Cross-reference:
   Weed control, see §§
93.55 through
93.60
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste, including but
not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or
other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazine, glass, metal, plastic, or
paper containers or other packaging construction material, abandoned motor
vehicle, as defined in SDCL § 32-36-2, motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil,
carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any
object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, or anything else
of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or
otherwise disposed of improperly.
(Prior Code, § 3.0201)
   (B)   Littering. No person may dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave,
cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or
leaving of litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or
into any river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this city,
unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its
authorized employees or agents for the disposal of litter;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(Prior Code, § 3.0202)
   (C)   Littering from motor vehicle, transporting litter to highway or street
receptacles. No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in the city except as permitted by law, nor shall any person
transport by any means garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of
business, farm, or other site to and deposit such material in, around, or on
top of trash barrels or other receptacles placed along public highways or
streets. A person convicted of violating this section while operating a motor
vehicle shall be considered to have been convicted of a moving traffic
violation, and a report of such conviction may be forwarded to the appropriate
state authorities.
(Prior Code, § 3.0203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 STARTING OR MAINTAINING FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall start, allow, or maintain any fire within the city,
unless the same is totally enclosed, without the prior consent of the City
Council, except for the following permitted fires:
      (1)   Fires purposely set for instruction and training of public and
industrial firefighting personnel when authorized by the Fire Chief of the
Volunteer Department, but only after proper notification to the city;
      (2)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be
abated by any other means when authorized by the Fire Chief of the Volunteer
Fire Department, but only after proper notification to the city;
      (3)   Fires purposely set by city maintenance personnel for the purposes
as authorized by the Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department; and
      (4)   Campfires, in designated fire pits and other fires used solely for
recreational purposes, for ceremonial occasions, or for outdoor preparation of
foods.
   (B)   When used above, PROPER NOTIFICATION TO THE CITY shall mean advanced
written notice describing in detail the fire to be set including the date and
time of the same, delivered to the Mayor or Municipal Finance Officer, at least
one day before the fire.
(Prior Code, § 3.0401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-33-1
§ 92.03 PESTICIDES.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council shall have the right to regulate and/or
prohibit the use of any pesticide within the city including the area within one
mile of the city limits, by regular or special ordinance, resolution, or other
appropriate action.
(Prior Code, § 3.0501)
   (B)   Sodium monoflouracetate. Before any person shall use or make any
application of the pesticide Sodium Monoflouracetate, commonly known as 10-80,
within the city or within one mile of the city limits, written application
therefor shall be submitted to the City Council for approval. Such application
shall include the name, address, and phone number of the applicant, the name,
address, and phone number of the proposed user of the pesticide, the reasons of
the proposed use and the date(s), extent, and manner of application. No use of
the pesticide shall be made until specific prior approval therefor has been
granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.0502)
   (C)   Conditions for use. If the Council approves any such use or
application, it shall have the right to set such stipulations as it may see
fit. Further the Council shall have the right to set and receive a bond, in the
amount set by the Council, from the applicant or user, conditioned on the safe
application of the pesticide.
   (D)   Notice. If the Council shall approve any application, with or without
stipulations, the applicant or user shall submit to the Council for its
approval, a notice for publication and posting, stating that the pesticide will
be used, where and when it will be used, the persons (including name, address,
and phone number) applying for and using the same, the reason for the use, the
fact that the pesticide is harmful to human and animal health, and the date
when the area will be safe again.
      (1)   The notice shall be in the form and contain the information,
including the above, as specified by the Council.
      (2)   The notice shall be published in the paper or papers designated by
the city for two successive weeks prior to the proposed use, the second
publication to be at least three days and not more than seven days before the
proposed use. The published notice shall be entitled “NOTICE-DEADLY PESTICIDE
TO BE USED IN BALTIC” in bold print at least one-eighth inch high.
      (3)   The notice, with the same title, shall be posted on the subject
property in the location(s) directed by the Council with letter sized to be
sufficiently large enough, as directed by the Council so that the title is
clearly readable from a distance. Notice shall be posted at least seven days
before the proposed use.
      (4)   All notice shall be done at the applicant’s expense.
   (E)   Violation. Any person violating this section shall be subject to
prosecution. Each separate day or instance in violation shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.0505) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Unlawful conditions. It shall be unlawful for any person owning,
managing, leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession of any building or
premises in the city to keep, manage, or maintain the same in any of the
following manners:
      (1)   Any building or other structure which has been abandoned; boarded
up; partially destroyed or dismantled; partially constructed but uncompleted
after the expiration of the building permit issued for the same; in disrepair
on account of broken siding or roof, peeling paint left unattended, sagging
walls or roof, or repaired in an unsuitable patchwork-like manner or similar
condition;
      (2)   Broken windows, doors, siding, or roofing, after the passing of a
reasonable time within which the same should have been properly repaired;
      (3)   Any building or other structure in such a state or condition that
it endangers the health, safety, peace, welfare, or comfort of any person who
may come in close proximity thereto;
      (4)   Any building designed for human occupancy that is in such a state
of disrepair or lack of maintenance, or other condition, at any time, that is
not fit for human occupancy;
      (5)   Any sidewalk area in a state of breakup, disrepair or blockage such
that it is unsafe for pedestrian traffic;
      (6)   Vegetation, including trees, grass, and weeds left unchecked or
unattended in violation of
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   Abandoned, discarded, or unused furniture, appliances, sinks, tubs,
toilets, cabinets, or other household goods or fixtures left so as to be
visible from a public street, alley, or adjoining property;
      (8)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative motor or other
vehicles, trailers, motor homes, mobile homes, campers, boats, bicycles,
motorcycles, lawn mowers, and other similar items, including parts thereof,
wheels, tires, and the like;
      (9)   Trash, garbage, or refuse cans, bins, boxes, bags, or other such
containers stored in areas visible from public streets or adjoining property;
      (10)   Lumber, junk, trash, tanks, barrels, debris, or machinery, tools,
and other similar materials maintained upon any premises which is visible from
a public street, alley, or adjoining property;
      (11)   The maintenance on any property of mounds or piles of soil, fill
material, sand, gravel, asphalt, concrete, or any other material except
temporarily in conjunction with construction or landscaping on the property;
      (12)   The maintenance or allowing of any other condition not compatible
with the zoning classification of the property or not compatible with
surrounding land uses in the neighborhood; or
      (13)   Any similar condition.
(Prior Code, § 3.0601)
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection or to enforce any of the
provisions of this section, or whenever the City Council has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises, any
condition which is prohibited under this section, an authorized representative
of the city may enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to
inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon such representative by
this section.
      (2)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge or care of
any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand, to
properly permit entry therein by an authorized representative of the city for
the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.0602) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibited and generally defined. No person shall create, commit,
maintain, or allow to be created, committed or maintained any nuisance within
the city. Generally defined, a nuisance consists in unlawfully doing any act or
omitting to perform any duty which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any river or other navigable body of water, or
any public park, street, alley, or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property.
(Prior Code, § 3.0701)
   (B)   Nuisances enumerated. Not to limit the full extent of division (A)
above but simply to enumerate certain nuisances that shall be unlawful within
the city, the following specific acts, omissions, or conditions shall
constitute nuisances:
      (1)   Any violation of
Chapter 51 of this code pertaining to the accumulation, storing, or collection
of garbage;
      (2)   Any violation of §
92.01 pertaining to littering;
      (3)   Any violation of §§
92.40 through
92.48 pertaining to abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, and inoperable vehicles and
vehicle parts;
      (4)   Any violation of §
92.02 pertaining to unlawful fires;
      (5)   Any violation of §
92.03 pertaining to pesticides;
      (6)   Any violation of §
92.04 pertaining to maintenance of premises;
      (7)   Any violation of
Chapter 93 pertaining to vegetation, including weeds, trees, and grasses;
      (8)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained, or to
accumulate upon any public or private property, any household wastewater,
sewage, garbage, refuse, rubbish, offal, excrement, decaying fruit, vegetables,
fish, meat, bones; any fowl, putrid, or obnoxious liquid substance; any
chemical, or hazardous material; or putrescible and nonputrescrible animal or
vegetable wastes or solid wastes, or any other waste material which constitutes
or tends to create a danger to public health, safety, or welfare. 
      (9)   The accumulation of manure, garbage, or anything whatsoever which
may be breeding areas for flies, other insects, mosquitoes, or rodents.
      (10)   For any person to permit a dead animal to remain undisposed for
longer than 24 hours after its death.
      (11)   Any excavation, trench, or open basement in which stagnant water,
sewage, garbage, refuse, rubbish, or other similar material is permitted to
collect, or which may jeopardize the life, health, or safety of the general
public.
      (12)   Throwing or letting fall on, or permitting to remain on any
street, alley, or public ground any manure, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel, or
wood while engaged in handling or removing any such substances.
      (13)   Keeping or maintaining any building or enclosure where livestock
or fowl are kept unless a special permit is requested, and the same is approved
by the City Council.
      (14)   Any accumulations of unsightly trash or junk which would
constitute a health hazard, a rodent harborage, a breeding area for insects or
rodents, a dangerous place for children to play in and around, or which tends
to be unsightly and which does or tends to lower the value of adjacent real
property because of its unsightliness. Unsightly trash or junk includes,
without limitation, deteriorated, wrecked, or derelict property in unusable
condition having no value other than nominal scrap or junk value, if any, and
which is left outside of a permanent, enclosed structure. Deteriorated,
wrecked, or derelict property includes, without limitation, motors, lawn
mowers, campers, refrigerators and other household appliances, furniture,
household goods and furnishings, scrap metals or lumber, or other similar
articles in unusable condition.
(Prior Code, § 3.0705) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-10, 21-10-1, 34A-7-9
§ 92.16 LAWFUL AUTHORITY.
   Nothing done or maintained under the authority of a state statute, city
ordinance, or other lawful law, rule, or regulation shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.0702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 21-10-2
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCE NOT LEGALIZED BY PASSAGE OF TIME.
   No passage of time can legalize any public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.0703)
 Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 21-10-4
§ 92.18 LIABILITY OF SUCCESSIVE OWNERS.
   Every successive owner of property who does not abate a continuing nuisance
on or in the use of such property is liable in the same manner as the prior
person(s) who first created and/or maintained the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.0704)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 21-10-8
§ 92.19 CITY INSPECTION.
   The city, or its officers, employees, or contractors shall have the
authority to enter onto private property for the purpose of inspection for and
abatement of any possible public nuisance. Any such inspection or abatement
shall include the right of taking pictures and removal of any sample or
specimen.
(Prior Code, § 3.0707)
§ 92.20 NOTICE TO ABATE; WHEN NOTICE NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Notice to abate. Whenever the presence of any nuisance shall come to
the attention of the City Council, the Council shall cause written notice to
abate or correct the nuisance to be given to the owner or person causing or
allowing the same. The notice shall effectively describe the problem, the
required remedy, and shall state the reasonable time, depending on the severity
or emergency of the situation, within which the nuisance shall be abate.
Service of the notice shall be in a manner to reasonably assure delivery.
(Prior Code, § 3.0708)
   (B)   When notice not required.
      (1)   Notice to abate any nuisance shall not be required in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When the nuisance event or condition is of such a serious or
emergency nature that immediate abatement is necessary to prevent human injury
or disease;
         (b)   When the owner or person causing or allowing the nuisance is
unknown or cannot be located using reasonable means of attempted identity or
location.
      (2)   Lack of notice shall not relieve the owner or person causing or
allowing the nuisance from being liable for such nuisance and the cost of
abating the same.
(Prior Code, § 3.0709)
§ 92.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person failing to comply with a notice to abate within the time
specified shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter separate and apart
from the violation for causing or allowing the nuisance itself, unless appeal
shall be taken as described in §
92.22.
(Prior Code, § 3.0710) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 APPEAL.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by receipt of a notice to abate may appeal to
the City Council by filing with the Municipal Finance Officer a written appeal
stating the objections therein. The appeal must be filed within the time stated
in the notice to abate, but in no event may the appeal be filed later than ten
days after the notice to abate has been given. If the Council deems the appeal
worthy of hearing, it may hear the same at its next Council meeting. The
Council may affirm the prior notice to abate, modify it, revoke it, or it may
proceed with the abatement without hearing the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3.0711)
§ 92.23 CITY ABATEMENT; COST.
   (A)   City abatement. Any public nuisance remaining unabated after
expiration of the time stated in the notice to abate may be abated as directed
by the City Council, at the cost of the owner or person causing or allowing the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.0712)
   (B)   Cost of abatement. If the city should incur any cost to correct or
abate any nuisance, the Municipal Finance Officer shall bill the owner or
person causing or allowing the same, and the owner or such person shall have 30
days to pay the same. If the bill is not paid within the time stated, the city
may charge interest thereon at the maximum legal rate and may sue the owner or
such person to collect the same.
(Prior Code, § 3.0713)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 21-10-6
§ 92.24 ASSESSMENT IN LIEU OF CIVIL ACTION.
   In lieu of a civil action to collect the city’s cost to abate any nuisance,
the City Council may levy special assessment against the property on which the
nuisance occurred. The special assessment procedure shall be as stated in
applicable state law for the purpose of levying special assessment against any
property in the city for municipal improvements made thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3.0714)
§ 92.25 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies against any nuisance shall include:
      (1)   Civil action for damages, injunction, or both;
      (2)   Abatement;
      (3)   Criminal prosecution; or
      (4)   All or any combination thereof.
   (B)   The choice of one remedy shall not preclude the use of any or all
other remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3.0706)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 21-10-5 and 21-10-9
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is left unattended or stored on any
public property in the same or substantially same place within the city for a
longer period than 24 hours.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city that is privately owned
and which is not public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other publicly owned
property or facility.
   REMOVAL AGENCY. Any public body, private or nonprofit organization
authorized by the city to remove and salvage abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperable vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, whether or not self-propelled, and which is
designed to travel along the ground or in or on the water and shall include,
but not be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor
scooters, trucks, motor homes, travel trailers, campers, tractors, pull
trailers, go-karts, golf carts, boats, jet skis, and vehicle-mounted plows and
blades.
   WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not in
operating condition due to damage, removal, or inoperability of one or more
tires and wheels, the engine or other essential parts required for the
operation of the vehicle, or which does not have lawfully affixed thereto
unexpired license plates, or which constitutes an immediate health, safety,
fire, or traffic hazard. Vehicle body parts and component parts shall also
constitute a WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE unless they are
enclosed completely in a permanent structure protected from the elements.
(Prior Code, § 3.0302)
§ 92.41 KEEPING ABANDONED VEHICLE ON REAL PROPERTY OR IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person in charge of or in control of any real property or improvements
within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall keep or place any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperable vehicles
on such property for longer than a period of 24 hours; provided, however that
this section shall not apply to an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperable vehicle enclosed completely in a permanent structure protected from
the elements. A tarpaulin, tent, or other similar temporary structure shall not
be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section. In no event shall an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperable vehicle that constitutes an
imminent health, safety, fire, or traffic hazard be kept or located on any real
property or improvements within the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.0301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.42 EXEMPTIONS.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   One inoperable vehicle kept on private property without being shielded
from public view if currently licensed and kept on a private driveway. If this
inoperable vehicle is in a state of externally visible disrepair or
disassembly, it shall not be kept on the private driveway longer than 14 days;
   (B)   Filling stations, automobile repair shops, or any other motor vehicle
related businesses in compliance with applicable city ordinances may place
inoperable vehicles being repaired or offered for sale on the premises;
   (C)   Any vehicle specifically designed and used for operation on drag
strips or raceways that remains on private property; and
   (D)   Any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city or authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.0303)
§ 92.43 REMOVAL.
   Whenever law enforcement finds an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperable vehicle on public property within the city, it is authorized to
place written notice on the vehicle that it will be removed to a garage or
place of safety unless the owner removes the vehicle from public property
within 24 hours of the giving of the notice. After the expiration of the 24-
hour period, the vehicle may be removed by a removal agency to a garage or
place of safety. Nothing in this section precludes the Police Department from
immediately removing a vehicle that constitutes and imminent health, safety, or
fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 3.0304)
§ 92.44 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   The removal agency shall have the rights and obligations conferred upon it
by SDCL Ch. 32-36 in regard to titling or disposition of such unclaimed
abandoned or inoperable vehicle, except that, if not otherwise provided by
state law, it shall have a possessory lien upon any vehicle removed under
provisions for this subchapter for the costs or reasonable charges in taking
custody of and storing such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3.0305)
§ 92.45 MODIFICATION OF STATE LAW.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, SDCL § 32-30-12 is modified to read as
follows: Whenever any vehicle is left unattended on any public road, highway,
or highway right-of-way of this state, for a longer period than 24 hours,
without notifying the sheriff or highway patrol office of the county or a peace
officer of the municipality where said vehicle is parked, it shall be deemed to
be an abandoned vehicle and subject to the provisions of SDCL §§ 32-30-13
through 32-30-18, inclusive, or in the alternative, the city may elect to
proceed subject to the provisions of SDCL § §  32-36-2 through 32-36-11,
inclusive, as if the abandoned vehicles as defined herein were included in SDCL
§ 32-36-2, Definition of Terms.
(Prior Code, § 3.0306)
§ 92.46 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Notice to remove. A notice in writing shall be served by the city upon
any person having an abandoned, dismantled, or inoperable vehicle on his or her
property requesting the removal of such motor vehicle in the time specified in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.0307)
   (B)   Content of notice. The notice in this section shall contain the
request for removal within 14 days after the mailing of such notice, and the
notice shall advise that failure to comply with the notice to remove shall be a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.0310)
§ 92.47 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice, the owner of the abandoned, dismantled, or inoperable
vehicle and the owner or occupant of the private property on which the vehicle
is located, either or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal.
(Prior Code, § 3.0308)
§ 92.48 NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   The city shall give notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the
private property where the abandoned or inoperable vehicle is located. It shall
constitute sufficient notice, when a copy of the notice is sent by registered
or certified mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or
her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 3.0309)
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND VEGETATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Policy and purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Interference
   
93.04   Arbor Day
   
93.05   Tree Board
Trees on or near Public Property
   
93.20   Supervision
   
93.21   Planting
   
93.22   Boulevard trees; distances
   
93.23   Responsibility of private sector
   
93.24   Injury to public trees
Trees on Private Property
   
93.35   Primary responsibility; city jurisdiction
   
93.36   Public nuisance; private abatement
   
93.37   City inspection
   
93.38   Abatement
   
93.39   Injury to trees
   
93.40   Tree topping
Weed Control
   
93.55   Duty of owners, inhabitants
   
93.56   Public nuisance
   
93.57   Public notice by city
   
93.58   Supplemental order by Tree Board; appeal
   
93.59   Failure to comply
   
93.60   City abatement; costs
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   In as much as the continued preservation and protection of our treasured
natural resources is vital to the continued well-being and beautification of
our cities and their inhabitants, it is hereby expressly declared to be the
policy and goal of the city, and in the best interests of its citizens, and for
the continued beautification of the city, and for the preservation of the
health and safety of those persons who reside in, visit, or patronize the city,
that there be established and maintained a comprehensive cooperative community
effort and program of tree and vegetation management, planting, maintenance,
and removal. The Mayor and City Council, for and on behalf of themselves, the
city, and its inhabitants, hereby dedicate themselves and the city to such
ends.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0101)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The area of public or publicly dedicated property included within
the definition of PUBLIC PROPERTY OR AREA commonly found between the sidewalk
and street. When used herein, the term shall include all such property whether
the sidewalk exists or not.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Those weeds and vegetation as found and determined by the
State Department of Agriculture or other appropriate state department or its
authorized agency or commission to be noxious.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property not constituting public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY OR AREA. All lands and real property owned by the city,
including areas dedicated to the city for public use such as parks, streets,
alleys, boulevards, and the like.
   TREES. All large woody vegetation commonly known and referred to as trees,
and smaller woody vegetation such as shrubs, bushes, and the like.
   UNHEALTHY WEEDS OR VEGETATION. Such weeds, grasses, or other vegetation not
necessarily defined as NOXIOUS, but causing a potential health, safety, or
travel hazard to the general public or those in the proximate vicinity thereof.
   UNSIGHTLY WEEDS OR VEGETATION. Such other weeds, grasses, or other
vegetation not necessarily NOXIOUS nor unhealthy, but existing in such a manner
so as to cause potential objections by the general public or those in the
proximate vicinity thereof. Unsightly weeds, grasses, or other vegetation shall
include allowing the same to grow higher than eight inches on all lands
incorporated within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0102) (Ord. 279, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 93.03 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to interfere with,
hinder, or impede any lawful activity of the city or its officials, officers,
employees, or agents in carrying out its functions and duties described in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0103) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ARBOR DAY.
   To create an appreciation of trees and their value to the community, there
is hereby designated an Arbor Day to be held on an appropriate date in the
spring of each year, at the recommendation of the City Tree Board and on
proclamation of the Mayor. On that date the City Tree Board shall supervise or
implement a commemorative tree planting to instill interest in the citizens of
the city in the care and maintenance of the city’s trees both in public areas
and on private land.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0501)
§ 93.05 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created and established a Tree Board in
and for the city, which Board shall consist of the city’s Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0201)
   (B)   Board proceedings. The Tree Board shall have the same officers as the
Planning Commission and shall keep a permanent record of its proceedings and
activity.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0202)
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The City Tree Board shall have the duty
and responsibility to do and perform the following functions in the following
areas:
      (1)   To take and record a general inventory of the trees in existence on
public property, including boulevards and other trees belonging to the city,
including the conditions of said trees (health, pruning needs, disease, death,
and the like);
      (2)   To take and record a general inventory of the trees in existence on
private properties in the city for future reference and assistance in carrying
out a long range tree plan for the private as well as the public sectors of
town;
      (3)   To formulate and adopt, and continually update, a long range
comprehensive city tree program which shall deal with recommended areas of
planting, pruning, removal, and regular or periodic maintenance. The program
shall prioritize the areas of need in the order the Board deems appropriate,
which priorities may from time to time be revised or restructured as the needs
arise or change;
      (4)   The comprehensive plan shall include a list of preferred trees,
trees the Board deems inappropriate or unfit, and areas of the city, with
emphasis on public grounds, where certain species of trees are deemed
appropriate for planting;
      (5)   In conformity with the long range comprehensive plan, the Board
shall present to the City Council, annually, at or about budget time, its
recommendation of a short range plan to be implemented by the Board with
approval of the City Council of the next calendar year. Such short range plan
shall include a recommendation of which trees to plant in which public areas
over the next calendar year, which trees in the entire town need removal,
pruning, or other care, and the plantings, trimmings, removal, pruning, or
other care of trees recommended in the city tree bank. The short range plan
shall include a cost estimate for the next year, which plan in whole or in part
shall be acted upon by the City Council. Upon approval by the Council, the
short range plan shall constitute the city’s tree program for the next calendar
year, including the budget as set forth in said plan, or as amended by the
Council’s approval;
      (6)   The Board shall implement the annual plan and shall coordinate the
plantings, pruning, and removal to be done, with the Municipal Finance Office
and the appropriate department head(s) to ensure completion and compliance of
and with the annual plan;
      (7)   As stated, the short range annual plan shall include trees
designated for removal or pruning due to death, disease, damage, or danger to
lives or property. In this regard, the Board shall work with the State or
District Forester or other appropriate governmental official in determining
which trees in the public or private areas need removal, pruning, or other
care. The recommended procedure shall be sufficiently stated, such that on
adoption of the annual short range plan by the City Council, it shall have the
effect of law as to the removal, pruning, or other care of the trees affected.
As stated, the Boards shall implement the annual short range plan, including
the portion dealing with tree removal, pruning, and care;
      (8)   The Board shall have the power to alter or amend the annual plan
when in its judgment conditions dictate a change or some emergency or
unanticipated need has arisen requiring prompt attention;
      (9)   The Board shall act as an advisory group for the city’s private
sector and shall assist in the planting and care of trees in the private areas
of town;
      (10)   The Board may seek the advice and counsel of the City Council at
any time, and the City Council shall direct all matters concerning public tree
planting, trimming, maintenance, care, and other city tree matters to the Board
for its study, recommendation and implementation;
      (11)   The Board shall adopt written guidelines setting forth recommended
planting, pruning, and maintenance procedures including spacing between trees
and distances from other structures, for the use and benefit of the private and
public sectors of the city;
      (12)   The Board shall have the power and other authority to work with
other governmental bodies or civic organizations in the formulating, revising
and carrying out of the long range comprehensive program as well as the short
range annual plan; and
      (13)   The Board shall have primary jurisdiction over the control and
eradication of weeds in the city as set forth in §§
93.55 through
93.60 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0203)
   (D)   Interference with Tree Board. It shall be unlawful for any person or
organization to interfere with, hinder, or impede any lawful activity of the
Tree Board, its members, agents, or employees, including but not being limited
to its functions of meeting, planning, planting, pruning, removal, or other
care of maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0204)
   (E)   Appeal. Any person or organization may appeal any decision, ruling,
action, order, or notice of or from the Tree Board to the City Council, who may
or may not choose to hear the appeal. If the Council chooses to hear the appeal
it shall render a final decision on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0205)
TREES ON OR NEAR PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 93.20 SUPERVISION.
   The City Council and under it, the City Tree Board, shall have exclusive
jurisdiction and supervision over all trees, shrubs, plants, and other growing
vegetation in all public areas in the city, including boulevards, and in the
city tree bank.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0301)
§ 93.21 PLANTING.
   No person shall plant any trees on any public ground or boulevard without
the prior approval of the Tree Board. The Tree Board shall have the power and
authority to approve or disapprove such planting, designate the species of
trees to be planted in a designated public area, designate the location and the
method of planting. Once planted, the Tree Board shall continue to have
jurisdiction of the tree and area planted.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0302)
§ 93.22 BOULEVARD TREES; DISTANCES.
   (A)   Boulevard trees. The care, maintenance, pruning, and removal of trees
planted on any city boulevard after the planting thereof has been approved by
the City Tree Board, shall continue to be the responsibility of the private
property owner or his or her successor who has planted the tree. While the Tree
Board has jurisdiction over boulevard trees, the cost of planting, care,
pruning, removal, and the like is the responsibility of the private property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0303)
   (B)   Distances. Trees planted on or near public ground and boulevards shall
comply with the following distance regulations:
      (1)   No tree shall be planted where the distance between any two human-
made improvements, such as curb and sidewalk, is less than four feet;
      (2)   No tree shall be planted or permitted to grow so close to any curb,
sidewalk, or public structure or improvement, such that it interferes with
vehicular traffic or parking, pedestrian movement along the walkway, or such
that it touches or crowds the public structure or improvement;
      (3)   No tree shall be planted within 50 feet of the center of any
intersection;
      (4)   No tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug or water
hydrant;
      (5)   No tree shall be planted so that its natural growth will eventually
interfere with any above ground utility wire; and
      (6)   No tree shall be planted within five feet of any underground water,
sewer, or other utility line.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0304) Penalty, see §
93.99
 
§ 93.23 RESPONSIBILITY OF PRIVATE SECTOR.
   Every private owner of every tree adjacent to or in close proximity with any
street light, electric line, sewer or water pipe, or other utility line or
pipe, shall keep said tree in proper shape and condition, and shall, when
necessary, prune or remove the same, at his or her expense, in proper manner,
so that said tree does not interfere with or hinder normal usage of said
street, sidewalk, area, utility, or the like, or block any light from any such
street light. The owner shall also remove all dead, diseased, broken, decaying,
or otherwise dangerous limbs and branches which pose a potential health hazard
or danger to the public. If the private owner does not comply with this
section, the city shall have the right to prune or remove any tree in violation
of this section in the manner and with the same effect as described in §§
93.35 through
93.40 of this chapter, with the cost thereof being the responsibility of the
private owner.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0305)
§ 93.24 INJURY TO PUBLIC TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, transplant, cut, trim, break,
mark, cover, or in any manner injure or cause disease to any tree on any public
area or boulevard, or otherwise make any attachments to any public tree by way
of wire, string, nails, rope, or the like.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0306) Penalty, see §
93.99
TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.35 PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY; CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Every owner and inhabitant of private property
within the city shall be responsible for the proper maintenance, care, and
pruning of all trees on private property within the city, and, when necessary,
the removal of dead, diseased, or otherwise dangerous trees or parts thereof on
private property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0401)
   (B)   City jurisdiction. The city shall have the jurisdiction and authority
to order, and if necessary, to be involved in the actual pruning, care,
removal, or other activity involving any trees on any private property when the
same shall be deemed necessary or advisable to preserve the public health,
peace, safety, or welfare, or to prevent the spread of disease or insect
infestation to other trees, plants, or animals.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0402)
§ 93.36 PUBLIC NUISANCE; PRIVATE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Conditions constituting a public nuisance. The following tree
conditions on private or public property are hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance in that they pose potential safety or health hazards, could
cause possible injury or endanger property or life, or unlawfully interferes
with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public park, square, street or highway, other public way:
      (1)   Dead trees with no growth or life remaining;
      (2)   The portions, branches, and limbs of trees that are considered
dead;
      (3)   Broken or damaged limbs or branches;
      (4)   Trees or areas of trees that are diseased requiring treatment,
pruning, or removal;
      (5)   Trees or areas of trees infested with insects that are harmful to
trees, plant life, or humans; or
      (6)   Trees in violation of §
93.22 or §
93.23.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0403)
   (B)   Private abatement. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
allow any public nuisance as defined in division (A) above, on his or her
property, and the same shall be privately abated by the owner or inhabitant of
the property upon his or her discovery of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0404) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 CITY INSPECTION.
   The city, its designated officers or employees, and the Tree Board, its
members and agents, shall have the authority to enter onto private property for
the purpose of inspection for the possible discovery of any public nuisance as
defined in §
93.36. Any such inspections may involve the State or District Forester or other
appropriate governmental official and may include the taking of any specimen or
sample for testing or closer analysis.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0405)
§ 93.38 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Order to abate. When the determination is made that one of the items
constituting a public nuisance is in existence, the Tree Board shall cause a
written order to abate or correct the nuisance to be given to the owner or
inhabitant of the property involved. The order shall effectively describe the
remedy needed and shall give the owner or inhabitant a designated reasonable
time, depending on the severity or emergency of the situation, to correct the
problem, whether it be by treatment, pruning, removal, or other remedy. The
time shall be as determined by the Tree Board, but shall not be less than three
days. Service shall be in such a manner to reasonably assure delivery.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0406)
   (B)   Appeal. Any person, owner, or inhabitant of any property feeling
aggrieved by receipt of an order described in division (A) above may appeal
said order to the City Council as described in §
93.05(E). Appeals must be taken within the time stated in the order and
preferably by the next City Council meeting. If the Council chooses to hear the
appeal, it may affirm, modify, or revoke the order.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0407)
   (C)   Failure to comply. Any person failing to comply with an order given
pursuant to division (A) above, shall be in violation of this chapter and shall
be subject to prosecution therefor. In addition the City Council, at the
recommendation of the Tree Board, shall have the authority to prevent, abate,
or otherwise remove the public nuisance in existence.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0408)
   (D)   Cost of abatement - assessment. If the city is forced to abate the
nuisance and correct the situation, whatever it might be, upon the city’s
completion thereof, the Municipal Finance Officer shall bill the property owner
or inhabitant therefor, and the bill shall be paid within 30 days of receipt
thereof. If the bill is not so paid within the time stated, the city may defray
the cost of abating the public nuisance plus accrued interest, by taxing the
cost thereof by special assessment against the property on which the nuisance
occurred. The levying of such a special assessment shall not relieve the owner
or inhabitant from prosecution or fine for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0410)
§ 93.39 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   Injury to private trees. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove, transplant, cut trim, break, mark, cover, or in any way or manner
injure or cause disease to any tree of another, or otherwise make any
attachments to any tree of another by way of wire, string, nails, rope, or the
like.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0411)
   (B)   Injury while Moving. No person shall move any structure or other
article along any street, alley, or public way in such a manner so as to cause
potential injury to any tree. If any such movement requires trimming or removal
of any tree, any such trimming or removal shall be done by a licensed arborist
under the supervision or direction of the Tree Board, at the cost of the person
doing the moving. Should tree injury or death result from anyone violating this
section, that person shall, at his or her expense, correct or replace the tree,
and be subject to prosecution for violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0412) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to top any tree such that its limbs are
severely cut back to stubs larger than three inches in diameter with the tree’s
crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree, except with the prior approval of the Tree Board, as in the case of storm
damage or necessity for existing older trees near utilities.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0413) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEED CONTROL
§ 93.55 DUTY OF OWNERS, INHABITANTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owners or inhabitants of all property in the
city to keep the same free from noxious, unhealthy, and unsightly weeds or
vegetation, as defined in §
93.02. However, the Tree Board or the City Council shall have the authority to
grant exceptions hereto, as to normally unsightly weeds, grasses, or other
vegetation, so long as the same does not pose a potential health or safety
hazard to the general public, and then, only on account of peculiar
circumstances or the particular lay of the land involved that makes maintenance
or removal highly impracticable or impossible. The discretion of the Tree Board
or City Council in granting or denying any such exception shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0601) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.56 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any and all noxious or unhealthy weeds or vegetation, and any and all
unsightly weeds, grasses, or vegetation not excepted by the city, are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0602) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.57 PUBLIC NOTICE BY CITY.
   At some time during the spring or summer each year, prior to the normal
season of noxious and other weeds and overgrowth, the Finance Officer shall
cause notice to be published in the official newspaper for two consecutive
weeks which notice shall state that each owner or occupant of property in the
city shall be required to keep his or her property free from noxious,
unhealthy, and unsightly weeds and vegetation. In the event of failure to so
comply, the city may cause the weeds or vegetation to be cut or otherwise
removed and the costs thereof shall be charged back against the subject
property by way of special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0603) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.58 SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER BY TREE BOARD; APPEAL.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the Tree Board, additional notice should be
given to adequately inform any owner of occupant of property of the existence
of a public nuisance, as defined herein, on his or her property, and the need
exists to eradicate the same, the Board may cause written order to abate or
correct the nuisance to be given to the owner or inhabitant of the property
involved. The order shall effectively describe the remedy needed and shall give
the owner or inhabitant a designated reasonable time, depending on the severity
or emergency of the situation, to correct the problem. The time shall be as
determined by the Tree Board, but shall not be less than three days. Service
shall be in such a manner to reasonably assure delivery.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0604)
   (B)   Any person, owner, or inhabitant of any property feeling aggrieved by
receipt of an order described in division (A) above may appeal said order to
the City Council as described in §
93.05(E). Appeals must be taken within the time stated in the order, and
preferably by the next City Council meeting. If the Council chooses to hear the
appeal, it may affirm, modify, or revoke the order.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0605)
§ 93.59 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person failing to comply with the notice specified in §
93.57 or with the order, if given, specified in §
93.58, shall be in violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to
prosecution therefor. In addition, the City Council, at the recommendation of
the Tree Board, shall have the authority to prevent, abate, or otherwise remove
the public nuisance in existence.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0606) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.60 CITY ABATEMENT; COSTS.
   (A)   City abatement. If the owner or inhabitant of any property in the city
fails to keep his or her property free from noxious, unhealthy, or unsightly
weeds or vegetation, as stated in the notice or in the order, the City Council
may direct cutting, spraying, or removal of the same by use of city crews or
private contractor who shall be authorized to enter onto private property for
this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0607)
   (B)   Cost of abatement - assessment. The city’s cost of cutting, spraying,
or removal shall be billed to the owner or inhabitant of the property involved,
who shall have 30 days from and after receipt of the bill to pay the same. If
the bill is not paid within the indicated time, the city may defray the cost of
abatement plus accrued interest, by taxing the cost thereof by special
assessment against the property upon which the abatement occurred. Such
assessment shall not relieve the owner or inhabitant from prosecution or fine
for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0608) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
prosecution therefor, and upon conviction or a plea of guilty, shall be subject
to fine of not less than $40 nor more than $500. Each separate violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7A.0104)
CHAPTER 94: PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   General use of Baltic River Park
   
94.02   Regulated park use
   
94.03   Deposit
   
94.04   City authority
   
94.05   Park and Recreation Board
§ 94.01 GENERAL USE OF BALTIC RIVER PARK.
   General use of the Baltic River Park is free to all residents of the city,
city school district, civic, charitable, or other organizations or groups of or
from the city, and all persons residing within a three-mile radius of the city
limits, subject to regulations in force and from time to time revised by the
City Council. However, free park use and privileges shall not extend to groups
or organizations of or from locations out of the city though a resident or
residents of the city shall be members of or be included therein. All such
groups or organizations shall not be considered a part of this section but
shall be subject to the provisions of §
94.03. Additionally, no individual or group activity in the park shall
interfere with free access to the park and park facilities by any other person
not a part of the individual or group activity.
(Prior Code, § 6.0501)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-38-1
§ 94.02 REGULATED PARK USE.
   Any use of the park for fund-raising, for profitable events, and for any
activity for which a fee or admission charge is exacted, sponsored by any
person or group defined in §
94.01 above, shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   If a malt beverage is sold, or provided for a requested usage, the
person or group requesting the usage shall apply to the city for a special malt
beverage beer license which application shall specify the date or dates applied
for, the activity planned, the hours of activity and the civic, charitable,
educational, or fraternal organization putting on the special event. The fee
for such license shall be $5 per day which shall be submitted with the
application, and shall be non-refundable.
   (B)   The person or group must purchase all malt beverages from the
municipal liquor store, at a price to be determined by the liquor store
manager.
   (C)   If the special event shall possibly run past 11:00 p.m. of any
scheduled day, the person or group shall provide licensed security of
appropriate number determined by the City Council, which shall be on duty from
9:00 p.m. and on.
   (D)   The person or group shall be responsible for cleanup and all costs
related to damage of park property.
   (E)   The city shall specify any other rules or regulations it sees fit in
conjunction with any specific event.
(Prior Code, § 6.0502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 DEPOSIT.
   Any use of the park for any purpose alluded to in §
94.02 above by any person or group not included in §
94.01 above, shall be subject to all of the provisions of §
94.02 above, and in addition, shall be subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   If the special malt beverage license is to be obtained, the person or
group shall post a $250 deposit in the form of cash or a cashier’s check made
payable to the city, at the time of application for the license. One hundred
dollars shall be retained by the city, and the unused portion of the remaining
$150, if any, will be refunded after deduction for costs and damages, which
shall include but not be limited to clean-up costs, damage to park property,
utility usage, pumping of the septic tank, and the like.
   (B)   If no malt beverage is to be provided or sold, the deposit amount
shall be $150, $100 of which shall be retained by the city, the unused portion
of the remaining $50 to be used, applied, and refunded the same as stated in
division (A) above.
   (C)   If the deposit is insufficient to cover all cost and damages, the
person or group shall be responsible for any shortage, and shall promptly pay
the city the same upon receipt of a bill therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.0503)
§ 94.04 CITY AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall have the absolute right, in the preservation of the
public peace, health, welfare, and safety, to restrict or deny park usage to
any person or group.
(Prior Code, § 6.0504)
§ 94.05 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a combined Park
and Recreation Board pursuant to and as authorized by SDCL Chapter 9-38 within
the City of Baltic, South Dakota.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Park Board pursuant to SDCL § 9-38-
8 with the purpose and authority as set forth in this section.
      (2)   There is hereby established a Recreation Board pursuant to SDCL §
9-38-80 with the purpose and authority as set forth in this section.
      (3)   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-38-90.1 the Park Board and Recreation Board
shall be combined and known as the Baltic Park and Recreation Board. The
combined Board shall hereafter in this section be referred to as the “Board.”
   (B)   Limit of authority. The Board shall act in an advisory role to the
City Council for purpose of investigation and recommendation to the Baltic City
Council as to quality of life matters including but not limited to the care,
regulation and management of the city’s public parks, sports complex, and
recreation trail/path system.
   (C)   Membership. The Board shall consist of seven members – one non-voting
member shall be a City Council representative, appointed by the Mayor with
approval of the City Council; one non-voting member shall be a city staff
representative, appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council; and
there shall be five voting members from the public at large. The members shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The members
shall not be required to provide a bond in order to perform their official
duties.
   (D)   Terms. Terms of the public members shall be as follows: The first year
Board will determine one, two, and three-year terms. During the first year, one
board member from the public will have a one-year term, two board members from
the public will have a two-year term and two board members from the public will
have a three-year term. Thereafter, terms shall be for a period of three years.
The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, will appoint a council member and
staff member on an annual basis. The members shall serve on the Board without
pay and at the pleasure of the City Council.
   (E)   Elected officers. The Board shall elect a President and Vice President
for a one-year term at the first meeting of the Board each calendar year. The
President shall chair all Board meetings; schedule all Board meetings and
special meetings; preside at the meetings; act as spokesperson for the Board;
sign documents or actions of the Board; rule on all points of order and
procedure; and perform all duties approved by the City Council. The Vice
President shall exercise the duties of the President in the absence,
disability, or disqualification of the chairperson. In the absence of the
President and Vice President, an acting Board member shall be elected by the
members present.
   (F)   Records. The President of the Board shall appoint the secretary of the
Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary to send all notices for the
meetings of the Board; compose the agenda for each meeting; keep and preserve
the minutes; have custody and keep all documents and papers filed with the
Board; and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board, with
the approval of the City Council. All minutes, records and all official actions
of the Board shall be filed in the city’s business office and shall constitute
public record.
   (G)   Budget. The Board, on or before the first day of July of each year,
shall submit a budget recommendation and estimate for park or trail
improvements or recreational programs for the ensuing fiscal year to the office
of the City Administrator. Such estimates shall include monies necessary for
maintaining, constructing, and improving parks, parkways, playgrounds, and
recreation trails/paths which are under the control of the City Council.
   (H)   Reporting to the City Council. The Council member serving on the Board
will advise and consult with the City Council and city officials as to the work
and recommendations of said Board.
   (I)   Meetings. The Board shall meet once a month if there is business to
conduct and may also meet on the call of the President or Mayor. Notice of all
meetings shall be placed on the city’s website at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting and will be open to the public. Meeting date and time will be
determined by the Board.
   (J)   Quorum. Three voting members will constitute a quorum.
   (K)   Absences, removals, resignations and vacancies. To be excused, members
of the Board shall notify the President or Secretary when they intend to be
absent from a meeting. Failure to make this notification prior to the meeting
shall result in an unexcused absence. Three or more unexcused absences within a
term shall be grounds for removal. Members of the Board may be removed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. A member may resign from the
Board by sending a letter of resignation to the Mayor or President of the
Board. Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council. Successors shall serve out the unexpired term of the member being
replaced.
   (L)   Duties. Notwithstanding any other provisions in state law, the Board,
in addition to providing the annual budget estimate, shall provide an annual
assessment of the public parks, and other recreational facilities and funding
opportunities for parks, park and recreation trails/paths and advise the
council on identifying quality of life improvements related to the city’s park
and trail/path system. The Board shall also advise and assist the City
Administrator with any recommendations to the City Council for policy changes.
The Board shall not, unless directed to by City Council, incur any expenses or
invoke any polices. Nothing herein shall give the Board authority to expend
monies, enter into contracts, create policies, own facilities, issue bonds,
levy assessments or hire employees and all such actions shall only be pursuant
to approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 284, passed 6-8-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   FIREWORKS
      
114.   PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS AND USERS
      
115.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION
      
116.   LICENSING PROVISIONS FOR CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required
   
110.02   Application for license; fees
   
110.03   License expiration
   
110.04   Revocation
   
110.05   Issuance of license
   
110.06   Record of licenses
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to engage
in any activity for which a license is required without first having obtained
such license, as hereinafter provided. The City Council may at any time expand
the general provisions of the chapter by requiring any person, persons, firm,
or corporation engaging in any trade, business, or occupation within the city
which is not specified by this chapter to obtain a license, as deemed
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4.0101) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation wishing to obtain a license
as herein provided, shall make written application to the City Council stating
the name of the applicant, address, purpose of the activity, the length of time
for which said license is wanted, the particular place at which said license is
to be used, and any other information as the Council may require.
   (B)   Fees for all licenses shall be fixed by the City Council where not
specified in this chapter, and all license fees shall be paid in full at the
time of application in such manner as approved by said Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.0102)
§ 110.03 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   Any annual licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire on December 31 following the granting thereof, except as otherwise
provided, and shall not be granted for any sum less than the annual rate. There
shall be no rebate made on the termination of said calling, vocation, or kind
of business for which said license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 4.0103)
§ 110.04 REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the authority at any time to suspend or revoke
any license granted under the provision of this chapter whenever City Council
shall be satisfied, upon written complaint, after proper notice and hearing the
such calling, vocation, or kind of business for which said license has been
issued, had been made or conducted in an improper or illegal manner, or
otherwise in violation of the license requirements, and in case of such
revocation, there shall be no refund to the holder of such license or any part
of the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 4.0104)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided, all licenses shall be issued by the Finance
Officer after approval by the City Council and the applicant shall have
complied with all requirements for issuance of such license. Unless otherwise
provided, all licenses shall be signed by the Finance Officer and shall have
affixed thereto the official seal of the city. Licenses may be issued on such
terms and conditions as the Council may determine.
(Prior Code, § 4.0105)
§ 110.06 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Finance Officer shall keep a record of all licenses issued by the city
stating when and to whom issued, for what purpose and for what length of time,
the amount of money paid for said licenses, and the place where such activity
is to be carried on.
(Prior Code, § 4.0106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Unless a different penalty is otherwise specified, any person violating any
of the provisions of this Title shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by
a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day in violation of this title shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.0209)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Transient merchant license required
   
111.03   Peddler/solicitor license required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Surety bond
   
111.06   Approval of license
   
111.07   Revocation of license
   
111.08   Appeal
   
111.09   Exceptions
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person engaged in the selling of property or services to include,
but not limited to spraying, trimming, or pruning of trees and shrubs of all
species, painting or repairing buildings or structures, and pest or rodent
control, by going about from place to place, highway or street parking, or
house to house either in person or by telephone to sell the same and who
carries with him or her such property for delivery at the time of sale or
performs such service at the time of contract for such service or immediately
thereafter.
   SOLICITOR. A person engaged in going from place to place, highway or street
parking, or house to house in person or by telephone to solicit orders for, or
to offer to sell, property or services for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
or agent thereof transacting a temporary business where goods other than goods
produced by him or her are exposed for wholesale or retail sale at any place in
this state. A business operated more than six months in one place by the same
person shall be deemed a permanent business, but one commenced and discontinued
within six months thereafter shall prima facie be presumed a temporary
business, and its operator a TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
(Prior Code, § 4.0201)
§ 111.02 TRANSIENT MERCHANT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every transient merchant shall obtain a license and pay to the city a
license fee of $25 for each six months that said transient merchant shall
conduct said business licensed under this chapter. Said license fee shall be
payable in advance, and the license issued under this chapter shall be posted
conspicuously in the place of business named therein.
(Prior Code, § 4.0202)
§ 111.03 PEDDLER/SOLICITOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be engaged in the business of peddler
or solicitor as defined herein within the corporate limits of the city without
first obtaining a permit and license therefor as provided herein. The fees
required for said licenses shall be $25 for each six months payable in advance,
provided that no fees shall be required of one selling products actually
produced by the seller. Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the
request of any citizen.
(Prior Code, § 4.0203) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-8
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applicants for license under this chapter, whether a person, firm, or
corporation shall file a written, sworn application signed by the applicant, if
an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a
corporation, with the Finance Officer showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the applicant for license;
   (B)   The name or names of the person or persons having management or
supervision of applicant’s business during the time it will be carried on in
the city and the permanent address and addresses of such person or persons, the
capacity in which such person or persons will act; that is, whether proprietor,
agent, or otherwise;
   (C)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business and the length of time it is proposed that said business
shall be conducted;
   (D)   A statement of the service to be provided or of the quality of the
goods, wares, and merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant
whether the same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample,
at auction by direct sale, or by taking orders for future delivery, where the
goods or property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced, and where
such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
   (E)   At least three references as to the integrity of the applicant,
including names, addresses, and telephone numbers;
   (F)   Last three locations of operation and dates thereof;
   (G)   Proof of sales tax license and license number; and
   (H)   Any other information that the Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 4.0204)
§ 111.05 SURETY BOND.
   With an application pursuant to §
111.04, a transient merchant or peddler must also file with the Finance Officer
a bond to the city to be approved by the City Council in the sum of up to
$1,000 conditioned for the payment of any license fees to become due the city
should the merchant or peddler continue operation beyond any time for which he
or she paid. Also, said bond is conditioned that the transient merchant or
peddler shall comply fully with all ordinances of the city and statutes of the
state regulating and concerning the sale of good, wares, and merchandise, or
the providing of services.
(Prior Code, § 4.0205)
§ 111.06 APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   Any person seeking to obtain a license under the provisions of this chapter
shall have obtained all required county and/or state permits, shall have
completed an application for license, filed a bond, and shall have paid to the
Finance Officer the amount provided for by this chapter for such a license. The
Finance Officer shall then furnish the applicant a receipt designating the
location of business and kind of activity applied for. Upon presentation of
said receipt to the city, the City Council, at its discretion, if it deems the
applicant a suitable and proper person to have such license, shall approve such
license and direct the Mayor to sign the receipt. Said receipt when signed
shall be deemed a good and sufficient license. If the City Council does not
grant said license, the applicant shall be informed of the same and Finance
Officer shall thereupon refund the amount of the license fee paid and the
applicant’s receipt shall be the Finance Officer’s voucher for the money
refunded.
(Prior Code, § 4.0206)
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked, after notice and hearing, by
the City Council for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
carrying on the business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant
hereunder;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter, or other law or regulation;
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed hereunder in an unlawful manner or in
such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 4.0207)
§ 111.08 APPEAL.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by the decision of the City Council in regard
to the revocation of license or denial of application for license as provided
in §§
111.06 and
111.07 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Finance Officer within ten days after
notice of the decision of the Council, a written statement showing the grounds
for the appeal. The Finance Officer shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in writing
setting forth the time and place of the hearing. This notice shall be mailed or
delivered personally to the licensee/applicant at least five days prior to the
hearing date.
(Prior Code, § 4.0208)
§ 111.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the distribution of any
commodity from a railroad car by a cooperative association purchased in car lot
for the personal use of its premises, nor the sale of services or goods by
nonprofit groups located within the city limits.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to the peddling or soliciting of
telecommunications services subject to the provisions of SDCL Chs. 49-13 or 49-
31.
(Prior Code, § 4.0210)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application required
   
112.03   License fees and approval
   
112.04   Location of business
   
112.05   Special events license
   
112.06   Violations
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, keep for sale, exchange, distill,
manufacture, produce, bottle, blend, or otherwise concoct, within the city any
alcoholic beverages as defined by statute, without having a license therefor as
required by state laws.
(Prior Code, § 4.0301) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 112.02 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   In any instances in which applicants may qualify, applications for licenses
for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be submitted as
prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 4.0302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 35-4-2
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEES AND APPROVAL.
   Applications for any alcoholic beverage license shall have the necessary
fees attached upon being submitted to the city as required by state laws; and
the granting and retention of licenses will be as provided by the state laws
and local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4.0303)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 32-30-3 and 35-2-10
§ 112.04 LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   The City Council shall not approve the issue of any license to any person,
business, or group where the location of such a business would not be
considered desirable in accordance with state laws and local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4.0304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 35-2-6.1 and 35-2-6.2
§ 112.05 SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSE.
   The City Council may issue a special malt beverage retailers license to any
civic, charitable, educational, or fraternal organization in conjunction with a
special event within the city for a fee of $5 per day. “Educational” does not
include the public school system. The time period for such license shall be
established by the City Council with the time period not to exceed 15
consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 4.0305)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 35-4-124
§ 112.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or licensee in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. For failure to correct any
offense when applicable, after conviction, each day of failure to do so shall
constitute a separate offense. Whenever any person shall as clerk, servant,
agent, or employee of any other person or establishment violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, he or she shall also be deemed as guilty as a
principal. Failure to comply with all existing requirements including the
provisions in this chapter, shall be cause for revocation of any license
granted under the provisions of state laws.
(Prior Code, § 403.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 35-2-10
CHAPTER 113: FIREWORKS
Section
   
113.01   License required; state requirements
   
113.02   Applications, fee, procedure
   
113.03   Sales regulated
   
113.04   Sales persons restricted
   
113.05   Premises regulations
Cross-reference:
   Use of fireworks regulated, see §
130.05
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the sale of fireworks
within the city nor within one mile of the city limits without first obtaining
a license from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.0401)
   (B)   Other requirements. Any applicant shall also have obtained a proper
license from the state, and a sales tax license from the state.
(Prior Code, § 4.0403) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1 and 34-37-2
§ 113.02 APPLICATIONS, FEE, PROCEDURE.
   Any person desiring a license shall submit an application for the same
stating the information required by
Chapter 110 hereof and any other information required by the city. The fee for
such license shall be $25. All other provisions of
Chapter 110 hereof shall apply to such license.
(Prior Code, § 4.0402)
§ 113.03 SALES REGULATED.
   No person may sell fireworks within the city nor within one mile from its
city limits before June 27 nor after July 5 of any year. Hours of sale shall be
restricted to the following hours: from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 4.0404) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 34-37-10
§ 113.04 SALES PERSONS RESTRICTED.
   No person under 18 years of age shall sell any fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 4.0405) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 34-37-2.1
§ 113.05 PREMISES REGULATIONS.
   No license shall permit any smoking or open flame in or around the premises
where fireworks are sold. Further, no fireworks shall be discharged within 150
feet of any such premises. Signs conspicuously stating no fireworks shall be
discharged within the prescribed area and “NO SMOKING WITHIN TWENTY-FIVE FEET”
which smoking sign shall be in red letters at least three inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 4.0406) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-37-10.3, 34-37-10.4, and 34-37-10.5
CHAPTER 114: PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS AND USERS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose of chapter
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Installation and operation
   
114.04   Prohibitions
   
114.05   False alarm fee
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations applicable to private
alarm systems and users. The public safety and good order require that
emergency services be maintained with a proper balance between prompt response
to alarms and a minimization of time spent on alarms which are false or
otherwise not the intended function of private security systems.
(Prior Code, § 4.0501) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or system that emits, transmits, or relays a remote
or local audible, visual, or electronic signal indicating an alarm condition
and intended to or reasonably expected to summon law enforcement officers of
the County Sheriff’s Department (hereinafter “Sheriff”) or fire services. ALARM
SYSTEM does not include an alarm installed on a vehicle.
   ALARM USER. Any person, property owner, firm, partnership, corporation, or
governmental entity whose premises has an alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. Any of the following:
      (1)   The negligent or unintentional activation of an alarm system by the
owner or lessee of an alarm system or by an employee or agent of either;
      (2)   The activation of an alarm system by mechanical failure or
malfunction because of improper maintenance of the alarm system;
      (3)   The activation of an alarm system because of improper installation
and/or use of the equipment;
      (4)   The intentional activation of an alarm system where no unauthorized
entry, commission of an unlawful act, or fire exists;
      (5)   An alarm shall be presumed false if the law enforcement officers do
not locate evidence of intrusion, commission of an unlawful act, or emergency
on the premises that might have caused the alarm to sound. When responding law
enforcement officers find unsecured doors or windows where there is no evidence
of forced entry or other evidence of criminal intent, the alarm is presumed to
be false.
      (6)   FALSE ALARM includes an alarm caused by power outage, but shall not
include alarms activated by unusually severe weather conditions or other causes
which are identified by the law enforcement officers or Fire Department to be
beyond the control of the alarm user.
(Prior Code, § 4.0502) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 114.03 INSTALLATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Alarm system standards. All alarm systems installed within the city
shall be installed and maintained in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local statutes, rules, and regulations.
   (B)   Emergency information. The alarm user will provide the Sheriff and
city with the names and telephone numbers of at least two persons in addition
to the user who can be reached at any time, day or night, and who are
authorized to respond to an emergency signal transmitted by the automatic alarm
device, and who can open the premises wherein the device is installed.
(Prior Code, § 4.0503) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 114.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   False alarm. No person owning, using, or possessing an alarm system or
transmitting information regarding an alarm system shall cause or permit the
giving of a false alarm, whether intentional, accidental, or otherwise.
   (B)   Prohibited devices. No person shall use or cause or permit to be used
any telephone or electronic device or attachment that automatically selects a
public primary telephone trunk line of the Sheriff or Fire Department and then
reproduces any prerecorded message to report any unlawful act, fire, or other
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4.0504) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 FALSE ALARM FEE.
   (A)   If the Sheriff or Fire Department responds to a false alarm, the alarm
user shall pay the city a fee according to the schedule of fees for any false
alarm occurring in a calendar year as determined by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   If the summons to the Sheriff or Fire Department is cancelled while
the Sheriff or Fire Department is responding to an alarm, the alarm user shall
still be assessed a fee for a false alarm.
   (C)   Any fees payable to the city which are delinquent shall be assessed
against the property involved as a special charge for current services
rendered, without notice, pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 4.0505) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, shall pay an amount
as determined by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.0506) (Ord. 245, passed 7-8-2014)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Application for new franchise
   
115.03   Construction and operations standards
   
115.04   Franchise renewal; amendment of franchise
   
115.05   Marketing
   
115.06   Cost of publication
Franchise Provisions; Grant of Authority
   
115.20   Franchise required
   
115.21   Grant of franchise
   
115.22   Grant of nonexclusive authority
   
115.23   Franchise term
   
115.24   Territorial area involved
   
115.25   Written notice
System Provisions and Public Services
   
115.40   Operation and maintenance of system
   
115.41   Service to schools and city
   
115.42   PEG channel
   
115.43   Emergency use
   
115.44   Lockout device
Operation and Administration Provisions
   
115.55   Indemnification of grantor
   
115.56   Insurance
   
115.57   Franchise fee
   
115.58   Grantor’s right to revoke; procedures for revocation
   
115.59   Sale or transfer of franchise
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access programming required by the franchise to
be carried on the basic tier. Basic Cable Service as defined herein shall not
be inconsistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7).
   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE.
      (1)   Any video programming provided over a cable system, regardless of
service tier, including installation or rental of equipment used for the
receipt of such video programming, other than:
         (a)   Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
         (b)   Video programming offered on a pay-per-channel or pay-per-
program basis; or
         (c)   A combination of multiple channels of pay-per-channel or pay-
per-program video programming offered on a multiplexed or time-shifted basis so
long as the combined service:
            1.   Consists of commonly- identified video programming; and
            2.   Is not bundled with any regulated tier of service.
      (2)   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE as defined herein shall not be
inconsistent with the definition as set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 543(l) (2) and 47
C.F.R. 76.901(b) (1993).
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming,
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection of such video programming or other programming
service.
   CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in federal
law.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof issued by a
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise,
which authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system or other MVPD
facility.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The area within the legal boundaries of the grantor.
   GRANTEE. The person which is granted a franchise in the city pursuant to
this chapter, its agents and employees, lawful successors, transferees, or
assignees.
   GRANTOR. The city.
   GROSS REVENUE. The monthly revenue received from basic cable service, cable
programming service, and pay television directly by the grantee from the
operation of its system within the franchise area. The term GROSS REVENUES
shall not include any other revenue billed or received by the grantee
including, but not limited to installation fees, franchise fees, late fees, any
fees itemized and passed through as a result of franchise imposed requirements
or any taxes or fees on services furnished by the grantee imposed directly on
any subscriber or user by any municipality, state, or other governmental unit
and collected by the grantee for such governmental unit.
   MAY. Is directory and discretionary and not mandatory.
   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAM DISTRIBUTOR or MVPD. A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, a multi-channel multipoint distribution service,
a direct broadcast satellite service, an OVS provider, or a television receive-
only satellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by
subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming.
   OPEN VIDEO SERVICES or OVS. Any video programming services provided to any
person by a franchisee certified by the FCC to operate an open video system
pursuant to Section 47 U.S.C. 573, as may be amended, regardless of the
facilities used.
   PAY TELEVISION. The delivery over the system of pay-per-channel or pay-per-
program audio-visual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
other legal entity.
   SHALL. Is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any residential installation which can be completed
using a drop of 150 feet or less.
   STREET. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway, or drive,
or any easement or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the grantor.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives cable service.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, § 10.0101)
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE.
   (A)   An application for an initial franchise to provide video programming
shall be in writing on a form provided by the city which shall contain where
applicable:
      (1)   The applicant’s name;
      (2)   The names of the applicant’s officers and directors;
      (3)   The business address of the applicant;
      (4)   The name and contact information of a designated contact for the
applicant;
      (5)   A description of the geographic area that the applicant proposes to
serve;
      (6)   The PEG channel capacity and capital support proposed by the
applicant;
      (7)   The term of the agreement proposed by the applicant;
      (8)   Whether the applicant holds an existing authorization to access the
public rights-of-way in the subject franchise service area;
      (9)   The amount of the franchise fee the applicant offers to pay; and
      (10)   Any additional information required by applicable state or local
laws.
   (B)   The initial franchise application may be evaluated according to the
following criteria, and approved within 180 days after the city deems the
application is complete. In the event the applicant is already authorized to
occupy the rights-of-way, the time for review and approval will be 90 days.
      (1)   The evidence of legal, technical, and financial ability required in
the applicant’s proposal will be such as to assure the ability to complete the
entire system within a reasonable time from the date the franchise is granted.
The city will also consider the applicant’s ability to operate the system and
provide the necessary cable services or video programming in compliance with
the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Administrator or designee shall prepare a report and make
his or her recommendations respecting such application to the City Council.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be set prior to any grant of a franchise, at
a time and date approved by the City Council. Within 30 days after the close of
the hearing, the City Council shall make a decision based upon the evidence
received at the hearing as to whether or not the franchises should be granted
and, if granted, subject to what conditions.
      (4)   The city may consider any additional information that it deems
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 10.0301)
§ 115.03 CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS.
   (A)   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from the grantor before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   (B)   The grantor shall impose no permit fees upon a grantee.
   (C)   If at any time during the period of this franchise the grantor shall
elect to alter, or change the grade or location of any street, alley, or other
public way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by the
grantor, remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes, and
other fixtures of the system. If the grantor reimburses other occupants of the
street, a grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   (D)   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by the grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the
moving of buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by
the person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten-
days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   (E)   A grantee shall have the authority to trim any trees upon and
overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public easements of the grantor
so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the
wires and cables of the grantee.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring the grantee’s facilities.
   (G)   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, the
grantee shall construct and install its cables, wires, and other facilities
underground. In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, the
grantee may construct and install its cables, wires, and other facilities from
the same pole with the consent of the owner of the pole.
   (H)   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   (I)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, cancelled, or have expired, the grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the system as specified in
division (J) of this section, promptly remove from the streets, or public
places all such property and poles of such system other than any which the city
may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, the grantee
shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such property has
been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city.
   (J)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent
abandonment of the property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an
instrument to be approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership
of such property.
   (K)   All cable and passive equipment for cable television reception service
installed by the grantee at a subscriber’s location shall remain the property
of the grantee and the grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and
equipment. Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its above ground facilities and equipment from the premises
of such subscriber upon his or her request.
   (L)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the City
Council with regard to locations, height, type, or any other pertinent aspect,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any
pole or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and
such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the City Council or its designated representative determines
that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (M)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing in use
in serving the city are available for use by grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the City Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   (N)   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make
use of poles or other wire-holding structures of the grantee but agreement
therefor with the grantee cannot be reached, the City Council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and
upon such terms as the Council determines the use would enhance the public
convenience and would not unduly interfere with the grantee’s operations.
   (O)   The grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the City Auditor
a schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers for
basic cable service, including installation charges.
   (P)   During the term hereof, the city may regulate rates only if authorized
to do so by Federal Communications Commission regulations and then such
regulation shall only be in accordance with the provisions of such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10.0401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 FRANCHISE RENEWAL; AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Franchise renewal. Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in
accordance with applicable federal law.
(Prior Code, § 10.0801)
   (B)   Amendment of franchise. A grantee and grantor may agree, from time to
time, to amend a franchise. Such written amendments may be made at any time.
(Prior Code, § 10.0802)
§ 115.05 MARKETING.
   A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise
area, including door to door sales, notwithstanding any peddler or solicitor
laws or regulations to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 10.0803)
§ 115.06 COST OF PUBLICATION.
   Grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise as such
publication is required by law. Such payment shall be made by grantee to the
city within 30 days after receiving a written statement of such expense.
(Prior Code, § 10.0805)
FRANCHISE PROVISIONS;
GRANT OF AUTHORITY
§ 115.20 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate, or maintain a
cable system or MVPD facility or to provide cable service, video programming or
other MVPD services, including OVS, in the grantor without a franchise
authorizing the same, unless applicable federal or state law prohibits the
grantor’s enforcement of such a requirement.
(Prior Code, § 10.0201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.21 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise that is granted in the city shall be subject to the terms and
conditions contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.0202)
§ 115.22 GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A grantee shall have the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over, and under the
streets, public ways, and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto in the franchise area, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the franchise area of a
cable system.
   (B)   A franchise shall be nonexclusive and grantor reserves the right to
grant a similar use of said streets to any MVPD at any time, provided, however,
that all franchises shall contain the same terms and conditions as this
franchise in order that one MVPD is not granted a competitive advantage over
another. In the event a MVPD commences operation without a franchise or is
granted a franchise to operate by the grantor, the terms and conditions of
which do not comply with this chapter, other grantees shall have the right
either (1) to opt in to the competitor’s franchise by providing ten-days’ prior
written notice to the grantor; or (2) to petition the grantor for modifications
to its franchise, in which case the grantor shall work in good faith with the
affected grantee(s) to review and adopt modifications which the grantee(s) deem
necessary, review and approval by grantor shall not be unreasonably denied.
   (C)   Before granting an additional franchise, the grantor shall give
written notice to all grantees of any new application, identifying the
applicant for such additional franchise and providing at least 30 days prior
notice of the date, time, and place at which the grantor shall consider and/or
determine whether such additional franchise should be granted.
   (D)   Every franchise shall apply to the entire service area of the grantor,
as it exists now or may later be configured.
   (E)   In the event the grantor grants one or more additional franchises or
one or more non-franchised MVPDs commence providing cable service in the
grantor, a grantee shall have the right to terminate or reduce the term of this
franchise in its sole discretion.
   (F)   Neither the grantor nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material
rights and obligations set forth in this franchise. In the event of a conflict
between any other ordinance and this franchise, the franchise shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10.0203)
§ 115.23 FRANCHISE TERM.
   A franchise shall be in effect for a period of up to 15 years from the
effective date of the agreement, unless renewed, revoked, or terminated sooner
as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.0204)
§ 115.24 TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED.
   A franchise shall be granted for the corporate boundaries of the grantor, as
it exists from time to time. In the event of annexation by the grantor, or as
development occurs, any new territory shall become part of the area covered,
provided, however, that the grantee(s) shall not be required to extend service
beyond its present system boundaries unless there is a minimum of 25 homes per
cable mile as measured from the last fiber node or terminating amplifier.
(Prior Code, § 10.0205)
§ 115.25 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   All notices, reports, or demands required to be given in writing under this
chapter shall be deemed to be given when delivered personally to any officer of
the grantee or grantor’s administrator of this chapter as specified in a
franchise.
(Prior Code, § 10.0206)
SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 115.40 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   A grantee shall render effective service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
(Prior Code, § 10.0501)
§ 115.41 SERVICE TO SCHOOLS AND CITY.
   A grantee shall, subject to the line extension requirements of §
115.24, provide one drop and one outlet of basic cable service at no cost to
public and parochial elementary and secondary schools in the city, and three
city buildings to be mutually agreed upon by the city and a grantee.
(Prior Code, § 10.0502)
§ 115.42 PEG CHANNEL.
   The grantee shall allocate one channel to the city as a public, educational,
or governmental access channel. Until such time as the city files a written
request with the grantee for full-time use of the channel, the grantee shall
have the right to use that portion of the channel capacity that is not being
used by the city. The grantee shall have a reasonable period of time after
notification to vacate its use of the channel. Grantee shall assist the city in
obtaining the necessary licenses and frequency clearance to enable the city to
use said channel.
(Prior Code, § 10.0503)
§ 115.43 EMERGENCY USE.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, a grantee shall, upon request of
the City Council, make available its facilities to the city for emergency use.
A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert requirements of federal law.
(Prior Code, § 10.0504)
§ 115.44 LOCKOUT DEVICE.
   Upon the request of a subscriber, a grantee shall provide by sale or lease a
lockout device.
(Prior Code, § 10.0505)
OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
§ 115.55 INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR.
   (A)   A grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the grantor, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees, and
agents, from and against all liability, damages, and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, except claims covered by worker’s compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to grantor’s negligence.
Nothing in this chapter relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee’s facilities
while performing work connected with grading, regrading, or changing the line
of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction of a
sewer or water system.
   (B)   In order for the grantor to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended, and held harmless, the grantor must with respect to each claim:
      (1)   Promptly notify a grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      (2)   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      (3)   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of the grantee, at the
grantee’s expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise,
settlement, resolution, or other disposition of such claim or proceeding
subject to division (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 10.0601)
§ 115.56 INSURANCE.
   A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including contractual
liability coverage, in protection of grantor in its capacity as such. The
policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than $300,000 for
personal injury or death of any one person, and $1,000,000 for personal injury
or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence, $300,000 for property
damage to any one person and $1,000,000 for property damage resulting from any
one act or occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10.0602) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.57 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   A grantee will pay the grantor a monthly franchise fee in the amount
of 3% of the grantee’s gross revenues.
   (B)   The franchise fee shall be payable monthly, together with a brief
report showing the basis for the computation.
   (C)   The period of limitation for recovery of any franchise fee payable
hereunder shall be three years from the date on which payment by grantee is
due.
(Prior Code, § 10.0603)
§ 115.58 GRANTOR’S RIGHT TO REVOKE; PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grantor’s right to revoke. Grantor reserves the right to revoke,
terminate, or cancel a franchise, if after strictly following the procedures
required by division (B) below of this section, it is determined that a grantee
has violated any material provision of its franchise or this chapter and has
failed to substantially cure said violation.
(Prior Code, § 10.0701)
   (B)   Procedures for revocation.
      (1)   The grantor shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause
for revocation and the intent to revoke and shall allow the grantee 60 days
subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to substantially cure the
violation or to provide adequate assurance of performance. Together with the
notice required herein, the grantor shall provide the grantee with written
findings of fact which are the basis of the revocation.
      (2)   The grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing
affording due process before the City Council prior to revocation, which public
hearing shall follow the 60 day notice provided in division (B)(1) above. The
grantor shall provide the grantee with written notice of its decision together
with written findings of fact supplementing said decision.
      (3)   After the public hearing and upon written determination by the
grantor to revoke the franchise, the grantee may appeal said decision with an
appropriate state or federal court or agency.
      (4)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
      (5)   Upon satisfactory correction by the grantee of the violation upon
which said notice was given, the initial notice shall become void.
(Prior Code, § 10.0702)
§ 115.59 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   No sale or transfer of a franchise shall take place without the written
approval of the grantor, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. All
of the rights, privileges, obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this
franchise shall pass to and be binding upon the successor or assign of a
grantee. Said approval shall not be required where a grantee grants a security
interest in its franchise and assets to secure indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § 10.0703)
CHAPTER 116: LICENSING PROVISIONS FOR CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License application
   
116.05   Issuance of license
   
116.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
116.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
116.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
116.09   Suspension
   
116.10   Revocation
   
116.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
116.12   Appeal
   
116.13   Licenses not transferable
   
116.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
116.15   Liability for violations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council of the City of Baltic enacts the following licensing
ordinances in order to ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal
boundaries of the city operate in a manner which complies with state laws and
regulations, protects the health, safety, and welfare of the general public,
prevents potential conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees,
recognizes certain safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of
unauthorized use or access of cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined
by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA).  All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of one percent on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY.  In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY.  In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. Cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this article. A violation of this provision is subject
to the general penalty provision in § 116.16. Each day of the violation
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL
Ch. 34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in § 116.16. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $25,000. The city will reimburse $12,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the South Dakota
Department of Health.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in Chapter 9.05 Zoning Regulations as well
as any location requirements pursuant SDCL Ch. 34-20G and the administrative
rules promulgated thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction;
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation; or
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years; or
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction; or
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under Title XV: Land Usage
Chapter 151. Zoning; or
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL Ch. 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder; or
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation; or
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state; or
      (8)   Any applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensary shall be allowed to operate in the city
at any time.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
116.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $10,000. The city will reimburse $5,000 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the Department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
article.
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment.
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
116.09 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
116.09 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this article while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
116.09;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officers, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL Ch. 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired;
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor, City Administrator, and Chair of the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this article may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall 130 St. Olaf Avenue, Baltic,
South Dakota, 57003. The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a
regularly scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. any day of the week.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this article,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
article, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this article is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 289, passed 9-21-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Open container of beer or alcohol in public places
   
130.03   Injury or removal of public or private property
   
130.04   Tampering in general
   
130.05   Fireworks regulations
   
130.06   Discharge of weapon
   
130.07   Curfew for minors
   
130.08   Fleeing from a law enforcement officer
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   The following actions shall constitute disorderly conduct and shall
constitute violations of the ordinances of the city:
   (A)   Intentionally causing serious public inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to any other person, or creating a risk by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority; or
      (4)   Obstructing vehicles or pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Threatening to use force or violence without lawful authority to do
so;
   (C)   Encouraging another to threaten or to use force or violence without
lawful authority to do so;
   (D)   Assembling together with two or more persons for the purpose of
engaging in conduct constituting disorderly conduct, or remaining in such an
assembly, though at first lawful, that develops into disorderly conduct;
   (E)   Refusing or failing to obey a lawful order of any law enforcement
officer or other public official or employee;
   (F)   Intentionally obstructing or interfering with the lawful activities of
any law enforcement officer, fire fighter, ambulance personnel, or other public
official or employee; or
   (G)   Threatening to damage or actually damaging the property of another
with intent to do so or with reckless disregard for the property of another,
irrespective of the monetary damage to such property.
(Prior Code, § 5.0101) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals disturbing the peace, see §
90.005
§ 130.02 OPEN CONTAINER OF BEER OR ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except as provided in SDCL § 35-1-9.4, it shall be unlawful to drink any
beer or alcoholic beverage or to possess any glass, can, or other container
containing beer or any alcoholic beverage on which the seal has been broken, in
any public place, automobile, street, alley, sidewalk, or place of amusement or
business establishment not authorized to sell beer or alcoholic beverages,
unless approved by the City Council. PUBLIC PLACE shall mean any place in or
out of a building commonly and customarily open to or used by the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 5.0102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 35-1-5.3 and 35-1-9.1
§ 130.03 INJURY OR REMOVAL OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully, maliciously, wantonly, negligently, or otherwise
injure, deface, destroy, or remove real property or improvements thereto or
moveable or personal property belonging to the city or to any person in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0103) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 22-34-1
§ 130.04 TAMPERING IN GENERAL.
   No person in the city shall tamper with, injure, deface, destroy, or remove
any sign, notice, marker, fire hydrants, topographical survey marker or
monument, or any other personal property erected or placed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0104) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 22-34-1
§ 130.05 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fireworks generally prohibited. The use, throwing, lighting, firing,
display, or sale of fireworks within the city shall only be authorized in
accordance with SDCL Chapter 34-37. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any person, firm, or corporation duly licensed to discharge fireworks
for public entertainment at any public celebration in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0201)
   (B)   Fireworks - July 4th. No fireworks are to be used, exploded, set off,
or fired at any time other than between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
on July 4, or if approved by the City Council, on July 3 and/ or July 5 to
coincide with a July 4 weekend or recognition of the holiday as a state or
federal holiday when July 4 falls on a weekend. It shall at all times be
unlawful to throw at or from moving vehicles any type of fireworks. Any firing
or use of fireworks other than on the 4th of July as provided herein shall not
be allowed unless a special permit is approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0202)
   (C)   Fireworks ban. The City Council, or if insufficient time exists before
July 4, then the Mayor, shall have the authority to ban the discharge of
fireworks on July 4 or at any other time, if drought or other conditions
necessitating the protection of public peace, safety, or welfare exist. Any
such ban may apply to the entire city, or parts thereof, and to the area within
one mile of the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.0203) (Ord. 294, passed 3-10-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 9-33-1 and Chapter 34-47
§ 130.06 DISCHARGE OF WEAPON.
   Except as otherwise authorized under state or federal law, no person shall
willfully discharge any pistol, rifle, shotgun, gun, revolver, or other
firearm, including BB or pellet gun, crossbow, or bow and arrow within the
city, unless authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew hours for minors under 18. No minor under the age of 18 years
shall be or remain in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds,
public buildings, vacant lots, or other public places of the city, between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 5.0301)
   (B)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 5.0303)
   (C)   Responsibility of parents. It shall be unlawful for the parents,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under
the age of 18 years to knowingly violate division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.0304)
   (D)   Responsibility of officer. It shall be the right of any law
enforcement officer to arrest and detain any minor violating the curfew and to
keep said minor detained until a parent, guardian, or custodian is notified,
then said minor may be released upon the giving of a promise by the minor and
his or her parent, guardian, or custodian that such minor together with his or
her parent, guardian, or custodian shall appear at the stated time before the
proper authority to answer to the charges.
(Prior Code, § 5.0305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 FLEEING FROM A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to stop or otherwise flee when
given a visual or audible signal to stop by a uniformed law enforcement
officer. The signal given by the law enforcement officer may be by hand, voice,
emergency light, or sign.
(Prior Code, § 5.0401) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
International Building Code
   
150.01   International Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Modifications to the International Building Code
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.10   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
150.11   Modifications to the International Property Maintenance Code
International Residential Building Code
   
150.20   International Residential Building Code adopted
   
150.21   Modifications to the International Residential Building Code
International Existing Building Code
   
150.30   International Existing Building Code adopted
   
150.31   Modifications to the International Existing Building Code
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix C
and Appendix I as published by the International Code Council Inc., and
amendments and additions thereto as provided in this subchapter are hereby
adopted as the building code by the city for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all
buildings and structures in the city providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The adoption of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, will
become effective June 30, 2019. The minimum building standards in the 2018
edition of the International Building Code and amendments thereto shall be
applied to any building permit issued after July 1, 2019.
   (C)   The city shall publish Ordinance 268, without attachments, after its
passage. The attachments are on file and available for inspection at the office
of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2010; Ord. 268, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 150.02 MODIFICATIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   Certain sections and subsections of the 2018 International Building Code
adopted in §
150.01 shall be amended, added, or not adopted by the city. The modifications
as set forth in Ordinance 268 are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
code. The modifications are on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2010; Ord. 268, passed 5-14-2019)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.10 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   That a certain document is on file in the office of the Finance Officer of
the city, being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the city for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; provided for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
party hereof, as if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.11.
(Ord. 269, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 150.11 MODIFICATIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   Certain sections and subsections of the 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code adopted in §
150.10 shall be amended, added, or not adopted by the city. The modifications
as set forth in Ordinance 269 are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
code. The modifications are on file with the Finance Officer.
(Ord. 269, passed 5-14-2019)
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.20 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Residential Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix
E, Appendix G, Appendix H, and Appendix Q (tiny housing) as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., as amended, is hereby adopted as the
residential building code by the city for regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, movement, repair,
equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal, and demolition of detached
one- and two-family dwellings and town houses not more than three stories in
height with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures, and
provides for the issuance of permits and the collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The adoption of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, will
become effective May 14, 2019. The minimum building standards in the 2018
edition of the International Residential Code and amendments thereto shall be
applied to any building permit issued after May 14, 2019.
   (C)   The city shall publish Ordinance 270, without attachments, after its
passage. The attachments are on file and available for inspection at the office
of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 270, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 150.21 MODIFICATIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   Certain sections and subsections of the International Residential Building
Code, 2018 edition, adopted in §
150.20 shall be amended, added, or not adopted by the city. The modifications
set forth in Ordinance 270 are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
code. The modifications are on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 270, passed 5-14-2019)
INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
§ 150.30 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, including
Resource A, Guidelines on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and Assemblies, as
published by the International Code Council Inc., and amendments and additions
thereto as provided in this subchapter, are hereby adopted as the existing
building code by the city for regulating and governing the repair, alteration,
change of occupancy, addition, and relocation of existing buildings, including
historic buildings, as herein provided and provides for the issuance of permits
and the collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The adoption of the International Existing Building Code, 2018
edition, will become effective July 1, 2019. The minimum building standards in
the 2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code and amendments
thereto shall be applied to any building permit issued after July 1, 2019.
   (C)   The city shall publish Ordinance 271, without attachments, after its
passage. The attachments are on file and available for inspection at the office
of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 150.31 MODIFICATIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   Certain sections and subsections of the International Existing Building
Code, 2018 edition, adopted in §
150.30 shall be amended, added, or not adopted by the city. The modifications
set forth in Ordinance 271 are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
code. The modifications are on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 271, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The 2010 Revised Baltic Zoning Regulations are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 231, passed 6-14-2011; Res. 14-04, passed 6-10-2014;
Ord. 288, passed 9-21-2021)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The flood damage prevention ordinance of the city, as set forth in Prior
Code Chapters 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08, is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, Chapters 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
   
153.01   Appointment
   
153.02   Composition
   
153.03   Powers and duties
   
153.04   Comprehensive plan
   
153.05   Zoning and subdivision regulations
§ 153.01 APPOINTMENT.
   There shall be appointed a Planning and Zoning Commission to make, adopt,
amend, extend, add to, or carry out the policy, goals, and objective of the
city to interrelated all functional and natural systems and activities relating
to the development of the territory under its jurisdiction, such plan to be
referred to as the comprehensive plan, and to recommend the boundaries of the
zoning districts and appropriate regulations to be enforce therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.0101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-11 and 11-6-2
§ 153.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of not less than five
members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council. There shall be two
Class A members who will qualify for a position on the Planning and Zoning
Commission by their membership on the City Council, and there shall be three
Class B members who will be selected from the citizens of the city at large.
   (B)   The term of each appointed member shall be for three years or less, at
the Mayor’s pleasure. If a Class A member is no longer a member of the City
Council, then that member’s term shall automatically lapse.
(Prior Code, § 9.0102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 11-6-2
§ 153.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may exercise all such planning and zoning
powers granted in SDCL §§ 11-4 and 11-6 and acts amendatory thereof, as may be
necessary to enable it to fulfill and perform its functions, promote municipal
planning or carry out all the purposes of this Chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.0103)
§ 153.04 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   It shall be a function and duty of the Planning and Zoning Commission
to propose a plan for the physical development of the city, including any areas
outside the boundary and within its planning jurisdiction which, in the
Commission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of the municipality.
   (B)   The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive and explanatory matter, shall show the Commission’s recommendations
for the said physical development and may include, among other things, the
general location, character, and extent of streets, bridges, viaducts, parks,
parkways, waterways, and waterfront developments, playgrounds, airports, and
other public ways, grounds, places, and spaces; the general location of public
schools, of public buildings, and other public property; a zoning ordinance for
the regulation of the height, area, bulk, location, and use of private and
public structures and premises, and of population density as may be provided by
law may be included as an adjunct to the comprehensive plan; the general
location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or
privately owned, for water, light, power, heat, sanitation, transportation,
communication, and other purposes; the acceptance, widening, removal,
extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation, abandonment, or change of use of
any of the foregoing public ways, grounds, places, spaces, building,
properties, utilities, or terminals; the general location, character, layout,
and extent of community centers and neighborhood units, and the general
character, extent, and layout of the re-planning of blighted districts and slum
areas. The Commission may from time to time propose amendments or additions to
the plan or carry any of the subject matter into greater detail.
(Prior Code, § 9.0104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, see SDCL § 11-6-14
§ 153.05 ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   In exercising the duties granted to it by this chapter, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall recommend regulations governing land uses, building or
setback lines, and the subdivision or platting of land within the city in
accordance with SDCL §§ 11-4 and 11-6.
(Prior Code, § 9.0105)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Baltic Subdivision Regulations are hereby adopted by reference and made
a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS
Section
   
155.01   Underground tanks
   
155.02   Overfill protection and prevention systems
   
155.03   Leak prevention
   
155.04   Leak detection
   
155.05   Inventory control
   
155.06   Protection from corrosion and galvanic action
   
155.07   Overfill prevention
   
155.08   Spill control and secondary containment
   
155.09   Secondary containment
   
155.10   Out of service for 90 days
   
155.11   Tanks abandoned in place
   
155.12   Inspection authorized
 
   
155.99   Penalties
§ 155.01 UNDERGROUND TANKS.
   Underground storage of flammable and combustible liquids in tanks shall
comply with all state and Federal regulations, the provisions of this chapter,
and shall be double-walled.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.02 OVERFILL PROTECTION AND PREVENTION SYSTEMS.
   Fill pipes shall be equipped with a spill container and an overfill
prevention system in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA) 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, and applicable South Dakota
Administrative Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.03 LEAK PREVENTION.
   Leak prevention for underground tanks shall comply with this chapter and
applicable South Dakota Administrative Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.04 LEAK DETECTION.
   Underground storage tank systems shall be provided with an approved method
of leak detection from any component of the system that is designed and
installed in accordance with NFPA 30 and applicable South Dakota Administrative
Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.05 INVENTORY CONTROL.
   Daily inventory records shall be maintained for underground storage tank
systems. Such systems shall be in accordance with applicable South Dakota
Administrative Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.06 PROTECTION FROM CORROSION AND GALVANIC ACTION.
   Where subject to external corrosion, piping, related fluid-handling
components and supports for both underground and above-ground applications
shall be fabricated from noncorrosive materials and coated or provided with
corrosion protection. Dissimilar metallic parts that promote galvanic action
shall not be joined. Cathodic protection systems shall meet the requirements of
applicable South Dakota Administrative Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.07 OVERFILL PREVENTION.
   An approved means or method in accordance with applicable South Dakota
Administrative Rules shall be provided to prevent the overfill of all Class I,
II, and IIIA liquid storage tanks as defined by the NFPA.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.08 SPILL CONTROL AND SECONDARY CONTAINMENT.
   Where required, rooms, buildings, or areas used for storage, dispensing,
use, mixing, or handling Class I, II, and IIIA liquids shall be provided with
spill control and secondary containment. Spill control and secondary
containment shall meet the requirements of applicable South Dakota
Administrative Rules.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.09 SECONDARY CONTAINMENT.
   Vaults shall be substantially liquid-tight and there shall be no backfill
around the tank or within the vault. Vault impermeability ratings shall be in
accordance with applicable South Dakota Administrative Rules. The vault floor
shall drain to a sump. For premanufactured vaults, liquid tightness shall be
certified as part of the listing provided by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.10 OUT OF SERVICE FOR 90 DAYS.
   Underground tanks not used for a period of 90 days shall be safeguarded in
accordance with all the following or be removed in accordance with this
chapter:
   (A)   Flammable or combustible liquids shall be removed from the tank.
   (B)   All piping, including fill line, gauge opening, vapor return, and pump
connection, shall be capped or plugged and secured from tampering.
   (C)   Vent lines shall remain open and be maintained in accordance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Prior to reuse, tanks and piping systems out of service for greater
than 90 days shall be tested for tightness by an approved method.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.11 TANKS ABANDONED IN PLACE.
   Tanks must be removed from the ground if abandoned or out of service for 90
days. Tanks abandoned in place shall be abandoned as follows:
   (A)   Flammable and combustible liquids shall be removed from the tank and
connected piping.
   (B)   The suction, inlet, gauge, vapor return, and vapor lines shall be
disconnected.
   (C)   The tank shall be filled completely with an approved, inert solid
material.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.12 INSPECTION AUTHORIZED.
   Underground storage tanks, and any records of compliance, may be inspected
to ensure conformity with this chapter, including the right to inspect the
receptacles, vehicles, buildings, devices, premises, storage spaces, or areas
to be used.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
§ 155.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall pay a fine of
$500 for each day in which a violation of this chapter occurs, which fine shall
commence on the thirty-first day which written notice has been sent by
certified mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested or upon personal
service of such written notice in the same manner as provided by law for a
summons, and shall continue thereafter for each day until the property is in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-12-18)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section              Code Section
9-1-1                     10.02,
                          10.04
9-8-8                     30.03
9-13-13                   10.04
9-14                      31.01
9-14-3                    31.01
9-14-23                   31.01
9-14-6.1                  31.03
9-14-28                   31.02
9-19-1                    10.04
9-19-3                    10.99
Chapter 9-21A             33.01
9-29-7                    112.01
9-29-11                   90.006
9-29-12                   90.002
9-29-13                   92.15
9-29-19                   70.02
9-30-2                    91.02,
                          91.22
9-30-5                    91.38
9-32-10                   92.15
9-32-11                   51.04
                          92.02,
9-33-1                    113.01,
                          130.05
9-34-1                    110.06
9-34-8                    111.03
Chapter 9-38              94.05
9-38-1                    94.01
9-38-8                    94.05
9-38-80                   94.05
9-38-90.1                 94.05
9-43-138                  91.23
9-46                      91.16
9-46-1.2                  91.20
10-6-35.1                 33.16,
                          33.17
10-6-35.4                 33.16
11-4                      153.03,
                          153.05
11-4-11                   153.01
11-6                      153.03,
                          153.05
11-6-2                    153.01,
                          153.02
11-6-14                   153.04
21-10-1                   92.15
21-10-2                   92.16
21-10-4                   92.17
21-10-5                   92.25
21-10-6                   92.23
21-10-8                   92.18
21-10-9                   92.25
22-6-2(2)                 10.99
22-34-1                   130.03,
                          130.04
32-14-5                   70.06
32-15-6                   70.41
32-15-7                   70.42
32-15-8                   70.43
32-15-10                  70.44
32-15-11                  70.45
32-15-13                  70.46
32-15-17                  70.47
32-15-18                  70.48
32-17                     70.50
32-17-7                   70.50
32-17-8.1                 70.52
32-17-9                   70.53
32-17-10                  70.53
32-17-42                  70.53
32-18                     70.52,
                          70.54
Chapter 32-20             73.01,
                          73.08
32-20-4                   73.03
32-20-4.1                 73.04
32-20-6.5                 73.06
32-22                     70.55
32-23                     74.06
32-24-1                   71.05
32-24-8                   71.06
32-24-9                   71.07
32-26                     71.08
32-26-1                   71.03
32-26-12                  71.25
32-26-19                  71.27
32-26-21.1                71.04
32-26-43                  70.08
32-27-1                   71.09
32-27-3                   71.09
32-29-2.1                 71.28
32-29-2.2                 71.30
32-29-3                   71.29
32-30-1                   72.01
32-30-2                   72.01
32-30-3                   72.01,
                          112.03
32-30-11.4                72.04
32-30-12                  72.07,
                          92.45
32-30-12.1                72.07
32-30-13                  72.07
32-30-13 through 32-30-18 92.45
32-30-15                  72.07
32-30-20                  71.31
32-31-6                   71.10
32-32-6                   71.11
32-34-3                   70.25
32-34-3.1                 70.25
32-34-4                   70.25
32-34-5                   70.25
32-34-6                   70.25
32-34-8                   70.26
32-34-9                   70.26
Chapter 32-36             72.08,
                          92.44
32-36-2                   92.01,
                          92.45
32-36-2 - 32-36-11        92.45
32-36-9                   72.07
32-36-11                  72.07
32-37                     70.56
32-3012                   92.45
                          116.03 -
Chapter 34-20G            116.05,
                          116.10
34-20G-1                  116.02
34-34-10.5                113.05
Chapter 34-37             130.05
34-37-2                   113.01
34-37-2.1                 113.04
34-37-10                  113.03
34-37-10.3                113.05
34-37-10.4                113.05
34-37-10.5                113.05
34A-7-9                   92.15
Chapter 34A-11            51.01
35-1-5.3                  130.02
35-1-9.1                  130.02
35-1-9.4                  130.02
35-2-6.1                  112.04
35-2-6.2                  112.04
35-2-10                   112.03,
                          112.06
35-4-2                    112.02
35-4-124                  112.05
35-15-12                  70.45
Chapter 40-1              90.006
40-34-13 et seq.          90.004
Chapter 49-13             111.09
Chapter 49-31             111.09
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.0101             31.01
1.0102             31.02
1.0103             31.03
1.0104             31.04
1.0201             30.01
1.0202             30.02
1.0203             30.03
1.0204             30.04
1.0301             32.01
1.0302             32.02
1.0303             32.03
1.0304             32.03
1.0305             32.03
1.0306             32.04
1.0307             32.04
1.0308             32.05
1.0401             34.01
1.0502             34.02
2.0101             90.001
2.0102             90.002,
                   90.999
2.0103             90.003
2.0104             90.004
2.0105             90.005
2.0106             90.006
2.0107             90.007
2.0108             90.008
2.0109             90.009
2.0110             90.010
2.0111             90.011
2.0112             90.012
2.0113             90.012
2.0114             90.013
2.0115             90.014
2.0116             90.014
2.0117             90.999
2.0201             90.025
2.0202             90.026
2.0203             90.027
2.0204             90.999
2.0301             90.040
2.0302             90.041
2.0303             90.042
2.0304             90.042
2.0305             90.043
2.0306             90.044
2.0307             90.044
2.0308             90.044
2.0309             90.045
2.0310             90.046
2.0401             90.060
2.0402             90.061,
                   90.060
2.0403             90.062
2.0404             90.064
2.0405             90.063
2.0406             90.064
2.0407             90.065
2.0408             90.066
2.0410             90.067
2.0411             90.067
3.0101             51.02
3.0102             51.03
3.0103             51.04
3.0104             51.03
3.0106             51.05
3.0107             51.06
3.0108             51.07
3.0109             51.01
3.0201             92.01
3.0202             92.01
3.0203             92.01
3.0301             92.41
3.0302             92.40
3.0303             92.42
3.0304             92.43
3.0305             92.44
3.0306             92.45
3.0307             92.46
3.0308             92.47
3.0309             92.48
3.0310             92.46
3.0401             92.02
3.0501             92.03
3.0502             92.03
3.0505             92.03
3.0601             92.04
3.0602             92.04
3.0701             92.15
3.0702             92.16
3.0703             92.17
3.0704             92.18
3.0705             92.15
3.0706             92.25
3.0707             92.19
3.0708             92.20
3.0709             92.20
3.0710             92.21
3.0711             92.22
3.0712             92.23
3.0713             92.23
3.0714             92.24
4.0101             110.01
4.0102             110.02
4.0103             110.03
4.0104             110.04
4.0105             110.05
4.0106             110.06
4.0201             111.01
4.0202             111.02
4.0203             111.03
4.0204             111.04
4.0205             111.05
4.0206             111.06
4.0207             111.07
4.0208             111.08
4.0209             110.99
4.0210             111.09
4.0301             112.01
4.0302             112.02
4.0303             112.03
4.0304             112.04
4.0305             112.05
4.0306             112.06
4.0401             113.01
4.0402             113.02
4.0403             113.01
4.0404             113.03
4.0405             113.04
4.0406             113.05
4.0501             114.01
4.0502             114.02
4.0503             114.03
4.0504             114.04
4.0505             114.05
4.0506             114.99
5.0101             130.01
5.0102             130.02
5.0103             130.03
5.0104             130.04
5.0201             130.05
5.0202             130.05
5.0203             130.05
5.0204             130.06
5.0301             130.07
5.0303             130.07
5.0304             130.07
5.0305             130.07
5.0401             130.08
6.0101             91.01
6.0201             91.15
6.0202             91.15
6.0203             91.15
6.0204             91.15
6.0205             91.15
6.0206             91.15
6.0207             91.16
6.0208             91.17
6.0209             91.18
6.0210             91.19
6.0211             91.20
6.0212             91.21
6.0213             91.22
6.0301             91.36
6.0302             91.37
6.0303             91.38
6.0304             91.39
6.0305             91.40
6.0306             91.41
6.0307             91.42
6.0308             91.43
6.0309             91.99
6.0310             91.44
6.0311             91.45
6.0312             91.35
6.0313             91.46
6.0401             91.02
6.0402             91.02
6.0403             91.02
6.0404             91.02
6.0405             91.02
6.0501             94.01
6.0502             94.02
6.0503             94.03
6.0504             94.04
6A.0101            33.01
6A.0102            33.02
6B.010             33.18
6B.0101            33.16
6B.0102            33.17
6B.0103            33.15
6B.0104            33.15
7.0101             70.02
7.0102             70.02
7.0103             70.03
7.0104             70.04
7.0105             70.05
7.0106             70.06
7.0107             70.01
7.0108             70.07
7.0201             71.01
7.0202             71.02
7.0203             71.03
7.0204             71.04
7.0205             71.05
7.0206             71.06
7.0207             71.07
7.0208             71.08
7.0209             71.25
7.0210             71.26
7.0211             71.27
7.0212             71.09
7.0213             71.28
7.0214             71.30
7.0215             71.29
7.0216             71.31
7.0217             71.10
7.0218             71.11
7.0219             71.12
7.0220             71.13
7.0301             70.40
7.0302             70.41
7.0303             70.42
7.0304             70.43
7.0305             70.44
7.0306             70.45
7.0307             70.46
7.0308             70.47
7.0309             70.48
7.0310             70.49
7.0311             70.50
7.0312             70.50
7.0313             70.51
7.0314             70.52
7.0315             70.53
7.0316             70.54
7.0317             70.55
7.0318             70.56
7.0401             71.45
7.0402             71.46
7.0403             71.47
7.0501             72.01
7.0502             72.02
7.0503             72.03
7.0504             72.04
7.0505             72.05
7.0506             72.06
7.0507             72.07
7.0508             72.07
7.0509             72.08
7.0601             71.60
7.0602             71.61
7.0603             71.62
7.0604             71.63
7.0701             73.01
7.0702             73.02
7.0703             73.03
7.0704             73.04
7.0705             73.05
7.0706             73.06
7.0707             73.07
7.0708             73.08
7.0801             74.01
7.0802             74.02
7.0803             74.02
7.0804             74.03
7.0805             74.04
7.0806             74.05
7.0807             74.06
7.0808             74.07
7.0809             74.08
7.0810             74.09
7.0811             74.10
7.0812             74.10
7.0813             74.06
7.0901             70.08
7.0902             70.09
7.0903             70.10
7.0904             70.11
7.0905             70.12
7.0906             70.13
7.0907             70.25
7.0908             70.26
7A.0101            93.01
7A.0102            93.02
7A.0103            93.03
7A.0104            93.99
7A.0201            93.05
7A.0202            93.05
7A.0203            93.05
7A.0204            93.05
7A.0205            93.05
7A.0301            93.20
7A.0302            93.21
7A.0303            93.22
7A.0304            93.22
7A.0305            93.23
7A.0306            93.24
7A.0401            93.35
7A.0402            93.35
7A.0403            93.36
7A.0404            93.36
7A.0405            93.37
7A.0406            93.38
7A.0407            93.38
7A.0408            93.38
7A.0410            93.38
7A.0411            93.39
7A.0412            93.39
7A.0413            93.40
7A.0501            93.04
7A.0601            93.55
7A.0602            93.56
7A.0603            93.57
7A.0604            93.58
7A.0605            93.58
7A.0606            93.59
7A.0607            93.60
7A.0608            93.60
8.0101             50.01
8.0102             50.02
8.0103             50.03
8.0104             50.04
8.0105             50.05
8.0106             50.06
8.0107             50.07
8.0108             50.08
8.0109             50.09
8.0110             50.10
8.0111             50.11
8.0112             50.12
8.0113             50.13
8.0114             50.14
8.0115             50.15
8.0116             50.16
8.0117             50.17
8.0118             50.17
8.0119             50.18
8.0120             50.19
8.0121             50.19
8.0122             50.20
8.0123             50.21
8.0124             50.22
8.0125             50.23
8.0126             50.24
8.0127             50.24
8.0128             50.25
8.0201             53.01
8.0202             53.02
8.0203             53.03
8.0204             53.04
8.0205             53.05
8.0206             53.06
8.0207             53.07
8.0301             52.01
8.0302             52.02
8.0303             52.03
8.0304             52.04
8.0305             52.05
8.0306             52.06
9.0101             153.01
9.0102             153.02
9.0103             153.03
9.0104             153.04
9.0105             153.05
Chapter 9.05       152.01
Chapter 9.06       152.01
Chapter 9.07       152.01
Chapter 9.08       152.01
10.0101            115.01
10.0201            115.20
10.0202            115.21
10.0203            115.22
10.0204            115.23
10.0205            115.24
10.0206            115.25
10.0301            115.02
10.0401            115.03
10.0501            115.40
10.0502            115.41
10.0503            115.42
10.0504            115.43
10.0505            115.44
10.0601            115.55
10.0602            115.56
10.0603            115.57
10.0701            115.58
10.0702            115.58
10.0703            115.59
10.0801            115.04
10.0802            115.04
10.0803            115.05
10.0805            115.06
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
14-04    6-10-2014   150.02
15-03    10-13-2015  51.08
2018-02  3-12-2018   51.08
2020-04  8-11-2020   33.17
2020-07  10-13-2020  91.23
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         151.01
–      - -         154.01
223      7-14-2010   150.01,
                     150.02
231      6-14-2011   151.01
244      4-8-2014    10.99
                     114.01 -
245      7-8-2014    114.05,
                     114.99
250      11-10-2015  53.04
251      11-10-2015  52.06
                     155.01 -
259      6-12-2018   155.12,
                     155.99
263      12-11-2018  53.04
264      12-11-2018  52.06
265      12-11-2018  71.13
268      5-14-2019   150.01,
                     150.02
269      5-14-2019   150.10,
                     150.11
270      5-14-2019   150.20,
                     150.21
271      5-14-2019   150.30,
                     150.31
276      7-14-2020   53.04
277      7-14-2020   52.06
279      9-8-2020    93.02
281      2-9-2021    32.03,
                     32.04
282      3-9-2021    34.02
283      6-8-2021    30.03
284      6-8-2021    94.05
288      9-21-2021   151.01
                     116.01 -
289      9-21-2021   116.15,
                     116.99
290      9-21-2021   53.04
292      10-12-2021  52.06
294      3-10-2022   130.05
                    
 
