BISON, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2021-1, passed 2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections shall be known, and designated, as the “Bison Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act, provided by this code or
other ordinance, is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday, and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Perkins County, South Dakota.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state, but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for PUBLICATION shall mean PUBLICATION in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then in a legal newspaper PUBLISHED in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be PUBLISHED shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that decision, or direction, of the governing
body of a municipality, of a temporary or special character, for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. Includes AVENUE.
   TOWN. The Town of Bison, South Dakota.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see SDCL §§ 9-1-1 and 9-19-1
§ 10.05  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words, was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.09  POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in this code or in any ordinance of the town, an act is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or
wherever, in the code or ordinance, the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is
provided therefor, any person who shall be convicted of any such violation
shall be fined no more than $500 or serve no more than 30 days in jail, or both
in accordance with SDCL § 9-19-3. Each day any violation of this code or other
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BOARD AND OFFICERS
      
31.   FINANCES AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
32.   POLICE
CHAPTER 30:  GOVERNING BOARD AND OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Regular meetings; times
Official By-Laws
   
30.15   Meetings of Trustees
   
30.16   Rules governing meetings
   
30.17   Licenses and permits
   
30.18   Town warrants, registration, and payment
Employees and Officials
   
30.30   Elective/appointed officers
   
30.31   Compensation and bond for Board members
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  REGULAR MEETINGS; TIMES.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held at such
public place within the corporate limits of the town as may be decided upon by
the President of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the
second Monday of each month, unless such day falls on a legal holiday, in which
event the regular meeting shall be held on the following day.
(Ord. 23, passed 12-7-1953)
OFFICIAL BY-LAWS
§ 30.15  MEETINGS OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the President of the
Board, the acting President in case of the absence of the President, or by any
town members of said Board whenever, in the judgement of such officers or
member, the public interest demands such meetings. Personal notice shall be
given to all members of such Board of such special meetings before such meeting
shall be opened for business. All business transacted at any special meeting,
called as herein provided, shall have the same force and effect as though
transacted at a regular meeting. Three members present shall constitute a
quorum at any regular or special meeting.
   (B)   Ordinances may be proposed by any member of the Board at any regular
or special meeting. All ordinances shall be read three times on at least two
different days, provided that the second reading may be by the title by consent
of all members present; provided that no ordinance shall take effect or be in
force until the same shall have been published in the legal newspaper, printed
and published within the corporate limits of said town, to take effect 20 days
after publication. Provided further, that in case of emergency any ordinance
may be put into full force and effective immediately upon its adoption and
recording by the Clerk in the book of ordinances. Any ordinance adopted in case
of emergency shall contain an emergency clause.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1940)
§ 30.16  RULES GOVERNING MEETINGS.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Trustees shall preside at all meetings
unless he or she shall be absent, in which event a Vice Chairperson shall be
elected.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall attend all meeting of the Board of Trustees.
He or she shall make and keep a full and complete record of all the proceedings
of said Board in a minute book, which shall be furnished to him or her by said
town. When the Board shall adopt any by-law, ordinance, or resolution the Clerk
shall record the same in a book of ordinances to be furnished to him or her by
said town. He or she shall perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him
or her by by-law, ordinance, or resolution, or which may be by statute
required.
   (C)   After calling any special or regular meeting to order, Robert’s Rules
of Order shall be observed.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1940)
§ 30.17  LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   All license money required to be paid under any ordinance of said town shall
be paid to the Finance Officer, who shall give his or her receipt therefor,
stating therein the amount and the purpose for which it was received, and the
stub of such receipt book shall be made to show the same facts. Every license
or permit issued under the ordinances of the town shall be signed by the
President, or Vice President, of the Board and attested by the Clerk, and
sealed with the corporate seal.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1940)
§ 30.18  TOWN WARRANTS, REGISTRATION, AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   No moneys shall be drawn from the town treasury except by warrant
drawn upon the Finance Officer, attested by the Board of Trustees and counter-
signed by the President or Vice President of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the Finance Officer shall be paid at the next
regular meeting of the Town Board in which losses warranted can be paid during
the month and counter-signed by two officials, approved after the fact at the
next meeting unless payment is necessary to avoid late fees or other deadlines.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall keep a warrant register which shall show, in
columns arranged for that purpose, the number, amount, person to whom issued,
person presenting the same, date when notice for payment is given, and the
total amount, including interest, when paid.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer, when any warrant is
presented, to pay the same if there are funds in the treasury to meet it. A
register of all warrants is presented and is called at each regular monthly
meeting of the Board of Trustees by each Trustee present.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1940)
EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
§ 30.30  ELECTIVE/APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   The elective/appointed officers of the town shall be five Trustees each of
whom shall be elected/appointed and serve for such period as is established by
statute. A Finance Officer is hired by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 22, passed 12-7-1953)
§ 30.31  COMPENSATION AND BOND FOR BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The compensation of the members of the Board of Trustees shall be set
annually for each regular meeting actually attended, and for each special
meeting actually attended, payable end of each quarter.
   (B)   The compensation of the Finance Officer shall be hourly, payable at
the end of each month, agreed upon between the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 22, passed 12-7-1953)
CHAPTER 31:  FINANCES AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Municipal Sales and Service Tax and Use Tax
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Enactment; effective date
   
31.03   Use tax
   
31.04   Collection
   
31.05   Interpretation
Funds
   
31.20   Transferring restricted funds to the General Fund
 
   
31.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX AND USE TAX
§ 31.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the municipality of the town by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax
pursuant to the power granted to municipality by the state, by SDCL Ch. 10-52
entitled Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)
§ 31.02  ENACTMENT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   From and after January 1, 2008, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax, upon the privilege of engaging in
business, measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all personal engage in
business within the jurisdiction of the town, who are subject to the South
Dakota Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL Ch. 10-45 and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)
§ 31.03  USE TAX.
   There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use, storage, and
consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of tangible personal
property or services purchased from and after January 1, 2008, at the same rate
as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use, storage,
and consumption, which are subject to the state’s Use Tax Act, SDCL Ch. 10-46,
and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)
§ 31.04  COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52, and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the state’s Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax, under such additional rules and regulations
as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall lawfully
prescribe.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.05  INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder, that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the state’s Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL
Ch. 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and the state’s Use Tax Act, SDCL Ch.
10-46, and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar
tax except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)
FUNDS
§ 31.20  TRANSFERRING RESTRICTED FUNDS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   Funds collected for Christmas lights and community projects shall
hereby be transferred to the General Fund.
   (B)   Funds previously set aside for the construction of a new Town Hall
shall hereby be transferred to the General Fund.
   (C)   Funds collected for meter deposits shall hereby be transferred to the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed - -2021)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
31.01 through
31.05, and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200, or imprisoned in the municipal
county jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all
such collection remedies authorized by SDCL Ch. 10-45, and acts amendatory
thereto, and SDCL Ch. 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto, are authorized for
the collection of these excise taxes by the state Department of Revenue and
Regulation.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-30-2007)
CHAPTER 32:  POLICE
Section
   
32.01   Police powers
   
32.02   Law enforcement agreement
§ 32.01  POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Town Board having a common council, each member
of a Board of Trustees shall possess, within the jurisdiction of the town, all
the powers conferred by law upon sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the
peace pursuant to SDCL § 9-29-16.
   (B)   All police officers of the town possess the powers of constables, and
are permitted to do the following:
      (1)   Execute and serve warrants;
      (2)   Pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of
the state; and
      (3)   Arrest and detain any person guilty of any breach of the peace, or
any violation of the laws of the state or ordinance of the town.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see SDCL § 9-29-19
§ 32.02  LAW ENFORCEMENT AGREEMENT.
   The town may enter into an agreement with Perkins County Sheriff’s office to
provide police protection for the city. Any reference to “Chief of Police” in
the ordinances shall refer to either the Sheriff, Code Enforcement Officer, or
any designee of the Mayor or Sheriff in the instance the town has agreed to
have law enforcement provided by Perkins County.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility rate regulations
   
50.02   Water meter fee
   
50.03   Payments and compliance
   
50.04   Operating procedures
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  UTILITY RATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. There is hereby established a monthly charge for each utility
sold or furnished to each premises served as follows. Wherever the utility sold
or furnished to any premises shall exceed the normal amount for such premises
so that the fee prescribed is not fair and reasonable as applied to that
particular premises, the town may establish a special rate therefor.
   (B)   Water.
      (1)   Rates for water service shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution. Such rates shall
apply to each water meter serving the premises.
      (2)   In cases where a meter fails to accurately register the amount of
water passing through the meter from any cause whatsoever, the quantity used
shall be determined, and the charge made, based upon the average amount used
during two or more preceding months of water use. The property owner shall
immediately notify the town of breakage, stoppage, or any other irregularity in
performance of the meter.
      (3)   No water shall be used or taken from the town water system without
being metered, unless the use shall have the express advance written consent
therefor from the town, and in such cases the rate of charge shall be
determined by the town.
   (C)   Sewer. Rates for sewer service shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
   (D)   Garbage.
      (1)   Rates for garbage service shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
      (2)   If the party liable for payment of the service to a single family
unit is age 65 or older, and such party furnishes proof of such age to the
town, the rates for such service shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
      (3)   Rates and commercial classification for garbage service to a
commercial business shall be set as the Town Board in its discretion shall,
from time to time, declare by resolution.
   (E)   Temporary disconnects. Any owner of residential real property which is
occupied part time or seasonally may request a temporary disconnect of water,
sewer, and garbage service to such property. Disconnect/reconnect charges shall
be set as the Town Board in its discretion shall, from time to time, declare by
resolution.
   (F)   Waste tires. Same as above as determined by the Town Board.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 50.02  WATER METER FEE.
   A service shall be deposited with the town for each new water service
account established. The meter fee shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 50.03  PAYMENTS AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The property owner shall be primarily responsible for the payment of
all charges arising out of the use of all utilities consumed and/or utilized at
his or her premises (whether or not the premises is leased to or otherwise
occupied by another, and whether or not a mobile home belonging to another is
located upon the premises), or any other charges provided for in this chapter
and assessed by the Town Board. Such charges shall constitute a perpetual lien
and continuing lien upon such property until paid in full, and no water shall
be furnished to any property against which any charge hereunder remains unpaid.
   (B)   All bills for utilities sold and/or furnished by the town shall be due
and paid to the Town Finance Officer prior to midnight of the fifteenth day of
the month, and if not paid by such date, the bill shall be deemed delinquent.
Late charges shall be set as the Town Board in its discretion shall, from time
to time, declare by resolution.
   (C)   If any delinquent property owner, or property owner otherwise not
complying with the terms of this chapter, remains delinquent or in
noncompliance for a period of 60 days, the town may give such property owner
notice by certified mail stating that if said bill is not paid within, and/or
the noncompliance is not corrected within, ten days of receipt of such notice,
any or all of the utilities furnished to or for the benefit of the premises
shall be discontinued or disconnected, and in such cases, the town is hereby
authorized to discontinue and/or disconnect any or all such utilities. No
discontinued and/or disconnected utility shall be resumed or reconnected until
payment of the delinquent account to such premises is paid in full, or the
noncompliance is corrected, as the case may be, and in addition thereto, a
reconnection fee is paid to the town for each service account disconnected.
Reconnection fees shall be set as the Town Board in its discretion shall, from
time to time, declare by resolution. Appeal may be made to the Town Board.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-12-2008)
§ 50.04  OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Water.
      (1)   New connection fees shall be set as the Town Board in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
      (2)   For each new or relocated meter, the property owner shall furnish
an accessible location that readily enables and facilitates installation,
maintenance, repair, and reading, and that will insulate the meter against
damage by freezing. The property owner shall be liable for all costs reasonably
incurred as the proximate result of the property owner’s willful destruction
and/or negligence, including damages due to freezing, to maintain, repair, and/
or replace the meter. The town shall own all new meters installed after
February 4, 1980, and maintain and repair all meters, except a meter located
within a mobile home not permanently affixed to a foundation shall be purchased
by the property owner from the town at the then current selling price, and the
property owner shall maintain and repair such meter. The location and
installation of all new or relocated meters shall be subject to the approval of
the Town Board prior to turning on the water supply. Connection fees shall be
set as the Town Board in its discretion shall, from time to time, declare by
resolution.
      (3)   Water used for fire protection and domestic purposes shall be
deemed to have priority over the use of water for other purposes, such as
commercial use or sprinkling of lawn or garden, and during periods of water
scarcity, the Town Board may accordingly impose restrictions on the use of
water.
      (4)   No party shall open, take water from, or in any manner interfere
with, injure, break, or deface any fire hydrant belonging to the town, without
the express prior written approval of the town. Authorized representatives of
the Town Fire Department are exempt from this prohibition.
   (B)   Sewers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater, unless granted prior
approval by the Town Board.
      (4)   The owner of each house, building, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, in the town and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is located, or may be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the town, shall at the owner’s expense
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and connect the facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within one year after the date of official notice to do so, provided that the
public sewer is reasonably accessible and available as determined by the Town
Board.
      (5)   A property owner desiring a tap into the town sewer system for
sewer service shall make written application therefor to the town describing
specifically and particularly where it is desired the tap be located, and the
construction materials for the tap, how the tap is to be installed, and for
what or how the sewer service is to be used. Upon the Town Board’s approval of
the application, the owner shall supply, install, maintain, and repair the tap
and all sewer lines extending from the tap to the boundary line of the premises
to be serviced. The property owner shall supply, install, maintain, and repair
any additional sewer line necessary to service the premises.
      (6)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the house,
building, or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system in
compliance with the following provisions of this section.
      (7)   No private wastewater disposal system shall be allowed until a
permit for such system has been obtained from the town.
      (8)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the applicant shall first obtain a written permit, signed by
the Town Maintenance Supervisor. The application for such permit shall be made
on a form furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement with
plans and specifications designed by a state certified septic system installer.
A permit and inspection fee shall be set as the Town Board in its discretion,
from time to time, declare by resolution, and be paid to the town at the time
the application is filed. A permit shall not become effective until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Town Maintenance
Supervisor. The Town Maintenance Supervisor shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Town Maintenance Supervisor when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
      (9)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements and administrative rules of
the State Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      (10)   The owner(s) shall operate, and must properly maintain, the
private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at
no expense to the town.
      (11)   The town reserves the right to refuse any application at any time.
      (12)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 2014-2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person identified as a nonresident, or such person who does not
hold a Northwest South Dakota Regional Landfill dumping permit, is prohibited
from disposing of solid waste within the limits for the town and at the town’s
solid waste landfill site. Every person upon conviction of this violation of
this division (B) shall be punished by a fine of $100.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
   
51.01   Application
§ 51.01  APPLICATION.
   Applications for water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the
property, in writing or personal appearance at a Town Board meeting, to the
Board of Trustees stating the lot and block where such water is desired. If
such application is approved, no tap shall be made in the mains until
permission has been granted.
(Ord. 41, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Charges and rentals
   
52.02   Collection and fees
   
52.03   Current rates; sewer
   
52.04   Sump pump regulations
§ 52.01  CHARGES AND RENTALS.
   There is hereby established the following charges and rentals for the use of
the system of sewerage heretofore installed by the town, which charges are
hereby declared to be equitable and in proportion to the service rendered, and
which shall be charged against each individual sewer connection in the town
each month shall be set, from time to time, by the Town Board.
(Ord. 24, passed 5-3-1954)
§ 52.02  COLLECTION OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Collection of such charges shall be made each month by the Finance
Officer of the town at the same time that water charges are collected. If any
user of sewer facilities fails to pay his or her sewer charges on or before the
fifteenth day of the month following the month in which it is due, the town
shall have the power to shut off the water supply of such user until the sewer
charges are paid in full, and the town may collect any back sewer charges by
civil suit.
   (B)   Any and all fees and charges collected under this chapter shall be
turned over to the Finance Officer once each month, and shall be kept in a
separate fund to be known as the Sewer Depreciation Fund, and such funds shall
be used only for the purpose of paying the cost of new construction or for
emergency situations
(Ord. 24, passed 5-3-1954)
§ 52.03  CURRENT RATES; SEWER.
   The current rates shall be set, from time to time, by the Town Board.
(Res. passed 12-10-2018)
§ 52.04  SUMP PUMP REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for the town’s Maintenance Supervisor and staff,
and the Trustees of the Town Board, to enter any building within the town which
is connected therewith to the sanitary sewer system of the town, to ascertain
if the acts prohibited in division (E) below are being violated, and each of
them shall have the right to enter such premises or building at all reasonable
hours, and it shall be unlawful for any person to resist such entry.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any such premises shall refuse access to
the premises by the officers or employees of the town for such purposes, the
premises may be disconnected from the sanitary sewer system of the town.
   (C)   Trustees for the Town Board may prohibit discharge of sump pumps into
the sanitary sewer at any time, as conditions so require. Discharging sump
pumps to the sanitary sewer when not authorized shall be unlawful.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or for the owner or occupant of
any premises on the town’s sewer system, to discharge, or permit to be
discharged, or cause to be discharged, into the sanitary sewer system of the
town, or into any drain or sewer connected with such sanitary sewer system, any
storm water whatsoever from the roofs of buildings, from the overflow of
cisterns, storm water, surface water, groundwater, footing drains, cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters, or otherwise. All sump pumps
shall be installed so as to direct water to the exterior of the building. All
new sump installations require notification, within 30 days of installation, to
the Town Board.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 12-7-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Exhibition driving
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   Driving or leading animals on sidewalks
Traffic Code
   
70.15   Driving permit or license required
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Right side of road
   
70.18   Overtaking and passing
   
70.19   Following too closely
   
70.20   Approach of emergency vehicles
   
70.21   Crossing fire hose
   
70.22   Vehicles left unattended
   
70.23   Reckless and careless driving
   
70.24   Driving under the influence
   
70.25   Backing into intersections
   
70.26   Right-of-way intersection
   
70.27   Alley or private driveway
   
70.28   Driving on sidewalks
   
70.29   Stop-through traffic
   
70.30   Street and traffic signs
   
70.31   Turning at an intersection
   
70.32   Turning around; mid-block
   
70.33   Condition of vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle within the limits of the town in such
a manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, or tire squeal, skid,
or slide upon acceleration or stopping, or that simulates a temporary race, or
that causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway, shall be guilty
of exhibition driving.
(Ord. 33, passed 9-12-1967)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon
any of the public streets, alleys, or public grounds of the town at a rate of
speed greater than 20 mph, provided, however, that on any paved street of the
town, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle at a
greater rate of speed than 15 mph, and that in turning, changing from one
street to another, or crossing intersections of streets, all motor vehicles
shall be slowed to a rate of speed not to exceed 15 mph.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees is authorized and empowered to determine and
establish, upon any street or highway within the town or any part thereof,
limited speed zones which speed limits shall constitute the maximum speed at
which any person may drive or operate a vehicle upon zone, street, or highway,
or portion thereof so zoned, and on which highway the maximum speed permissible
in said zone has been conspicuously posted by signs adopted by the Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   Where no special hazard exists on any section of a street or highway,
which section is not zoned and posted as hereinbefore provided, the following
speeds shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of said limits shall be
unlawful and shall be prima facia evidence that the speed is not reasonable or
prudent:
      (1)   Fifteen mph when passing a school bus or grounds during recess, or
while children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours;
      (2)   Fifteen mph when approaching within 50 feet and intraversing an
intersection of highways when the driver’s view is obstructed;
      (3)   Fifteen mph in any public park; and
      (4)   Twenty mph on any street or highway, either in the business or
residential district.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on a street or
highway at a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent under the conditions
then existing, or at a speed in excess of those fixed by this section, or
established by the Board of Trustees of the town as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 25, passed 1-3-1955; Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  DRIVING OR LEADING ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride, drive, or lead any horse or mule, or drive or lead any
animal, upon any of the public sidewalks in the town.
(Ord. 12, passed 6-17-1942)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.15  DRIVING PERMIT OR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a resident of the state to drive
or operate, upon any of the streets or highways within the town, any motor
vehicle without first having secured, and having in his or her possession, a
permit or license so to do issued by the state.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human
power.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)
§ 70.17  RIGHT SIDE OF ROAD.
    Upon all streets, except upon one-way streets, the operator of a motor
vehicle shall drive the same upon the right half of the street, and shall drive
a slow moving vehicle as closely as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of
a street, unless it is impractical to travel on such side of the street, and
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle subject to the limitations
applicable to overtaking and passing as set forth in §
70.18.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)
§ 70.18  OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass at a safe distance to the left thereof, but only
when such left side is clearly visible, and is free from oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be made in
safety, and shall not cut in front of the overtaking vehicle until safely clear
of same.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of a center
line of the traversable road way in overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and
is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such
overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
   (C)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction at any intersection of streets, except
that this provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by a police officer.
   (D)   The operator of the vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction on any curve.
   (E)   The operator of a vehicle on a street shall not deviate from his or
her direct line of travel until ascertaining that such movement can be made
with safety to other vehicles approaching from the rear and about to overtake
and pass such first mentioned vehicle.
   (F)   The operator of a vehicle upon a street about to be overtaken and
passed by another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way consistent
with safety, upon suitable and audible signal being given by the operator of
the overtaking vehicle, and shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (G)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, each giving to the other at least one-half of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon, and condition of the highway.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle or vehicles giving audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle, the operator of every other vehicle
shall immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and parallel
to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any intersection, and
shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle
or vehicles shall have passed, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, to follow closer than 500 feet of a fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm, or to drive into or stop any vehicle
within the block where a fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department,
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Marshal or Fire Department
official in command.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  VEHICLES LEFT UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without stopping the motor of said
vehicle.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23  RECKLESS AND CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street, avenue, or alley
carelessly and heedlessly, in disregard of the rights and safety of others, or
without due caution and circumspection, and at a speed or in a manner as to
endanger or to be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of
RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (B)   Any person who drives any vehicle carelessly and without due caution,
at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or property, not
amounting to reckless driving as defined in division (A) above, shall be guilty
of CARELESS DRIVING.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate, or attempt to drive
or operate, any motor vehicle upon any of the public streets, alleys, or public
grounds of the town while such person is in an intoxicated condition, or while
under the influence of liquor, or any exhilarating or stupefying drug.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25  BACKING INTO INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back such vehicle
around a corner at an intersection, or into an intersection of public streets.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The right-of-way rule, as between vehicles at intersections, is hereby
declared as follows:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to a vehicle which has fully entered the intersection;
      (2)   When two vehicles approach an intersection at approximately the
same time, the operator of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right; and
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have hereunder.
   (B)   Exceptions to right-of-way rule:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle entering a public street shall yield the
right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon
official business, and the operators thereof sound audible signal by bell,
siren, or exhaust whistle; and
      (2)   This provision shall not relieve the operator of an emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor shall it protect the operator of any vehicle from the
consequence of an arbitrary exercise of such right-of-way.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right- of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection, or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded, and having
given a signal when and as required, may make such left turn, and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27  ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or onto
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28  DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive within a sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29  STOP-THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   Every operator of a vehicle or other conveyance intersecting any street
shall bring such vehicle or conveyance to a full stop at the place within 15
feet where such street meets the prolongation of the nearest property line of
such other street, subject, however, to the direction of any police officer at
any such intersection. The vehicle entering a through street where there is a
stop sign must yield the right-of-way to all vehicles which are either within
the intersection, or so close thereof as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30  STREET AND TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, determine and designate
the character or type of all official traffic signs, provided that all traffic
signs now erected are hereby designated as official traffic signs.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized, and as to those signs
required hereunder, to place and maintain, or cause to be placed and
maintained, all official traffic signs. All signs required hereunder for a
particular purpose shall be as approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to disobey the instructions of
any official traffic sign upon the street placed in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Whenever, in any street or avenue, the curb is painted a solid yellow
stripe by or under the direction of the Chief of Police, such stripe or marking
shall indicate a “No Parking” area or zone, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle adjacent to such marking.
   (E)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to place and maintain, or
cause to be placed and maintained, at the intersection of any street or alley
with any other street where, in his or her discretion, traffic conditions
justify such action, appropriate signs bearing the word “Stop”, which said sign
shall be located in such a manner and be of such a sign as to be clearly
legible from a distance of 100 feet along said street or alley intersecting
such stop street, and the operator of any vehicle or other conveyance
traversing such street upon which such “Stop” sign has been erected shall bring
such vehicle to a full stop at a place within 15 feet of the nearest line of
this intersection of said street or alley.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31  TURNING AT AN INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Right turn. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the right
at an intersection, or into an alley or driveway, shall approach the point of
turning in the line of traffic nearest the right-hand edge or curb of the
street, and in turning shall keep as closely as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the street.
   (B)   Left turn. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left at
an intersection or into a driveway shall approach the point of turning in the
lane of traffic to the right of, and next to, the center of the roadway, and
unless otherwise directed by turning markers, the operator of a vehicle in
turning left at an intersection shall pass to the right of the center of the
intersection before turning.
   (C) U-turn. At any intersection where traffic is controlled by a police
officer, or where warned by an official traffic control sign displaying the
words “No U-Turn” or “No Left Turn”, it shall be unlawful for the operator of a
vehicle to turn such vehicle at the intersection in a complete circle, or so as
to proceed in the opposite direction, or to make a left turn.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32  TURNING AROUND; MID-BLOCK.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction except at an intersection.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33  CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No persons shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway unless such
motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to use a muffler “cut-out” on any motor
vehicle on a highway.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle operated or driven upon any of the streets,
alleys, or avenues of this town shall be provided with adequate brakes in good
working order sufficient to control such motor vehicle at all times when the
same is in use.
   (C)   Every motor vehicle operated or driven in the town shall, during the
period from one half-hour after sunset and one half-hour before sunrise,
display lighted lamps as required by SDLC §§ 32-17-1 to 32-17-26.
   (D)   Every motor vehicle operated or driven in the town shall be provided
with a suitable or adequate horn, or other device for signaling, which shall be
in good working order at all times.
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle within the town
without having conspicuously displayed thereon the number of plate or plates as
required by the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 36, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Use of golf carts
   
71.03   On highways
Bicycles
   
71.15   Definition
   
71.16   Traffic laws
   
71.17   Traffic control devices
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled vehicle originally and specifically designed and
intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of
playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 71.02  USE OF GOLF CARTS.
   The town hereby permits the use of golf carts on the municipal streets,
subject to the following:
   (A)    The golf cart is to be insured;
   (B)   The person operating the golf cart shall hold a valid driver’s
license; and
   (C)   The person operating the golf cart shall obtain a permit from the town
to operate the golf cart on municipal streets.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 71.03  ON HIGHWAYS.
    No person may operate a golf cart on a state or county highway, except for
crossing from one side of the highway to the other. A golf cart may cross the
highway at a right angle, but only after stopping and yielding the right-of-way
to all approaching traffic, and crossing as closely as possible to an
intersection or approach.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-11-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
BICYCLES
§ 71.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power having two tandem wheels,
either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
(Ord. 42, passed - -)
§ 71.16  TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to special regulations in this subchapter.
(Ord. 42, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left, or “U-turn”, is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey
the direction of any such sign, except where such a person dismounts from the
bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 42, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking; Main Street
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING; MAIN STREET.
   All cars and trucks in the town using parking privileges in Main Street
shall be parked against the curb on either side of Main Street in said town.
Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and for the first offense shall be punished by a fine adhering to
local or state law, and for each succeeding offense shall be punished by a fine
adhering to local or state law.
(Ord. 7, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   NOISE
      
95.   PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Nuisances defined generally
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Nuisances prohibited
   
90.05   Dumping; health and safety
   
90.06   Notice to abate
   
90.07   Abatement of nuisances; Town Board of Trustees
   
90.08   Alternative actions
   
90.09   Authorization to adopt
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable, and
practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy
provided by town ordinances or otherwise available at law, whereby a public
nuisance located on any premises or public property, which from any cause
endangers the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety, or welfare of the
general public, or which tends to lower the value of adjacent real property
because of its unsightliness, may be required to be repaired, removed, or
abated.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.02  NUISANCES DEFINED GENERALLY.
   A nuisance consists of unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a
duty, which act or omission either:
   (A)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for
passage any public sidewalk, park, street, or highway; and/or
   (D)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
the property.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED OR DERELICT PROPERTY. Any junk car, car bodies, or equipment of
any type, except in an authorized junk yard, or any accumulations of other
unsightly trash or junk which would constitute a health hazard, a rodent
harborage, a breeding area for insects or rodents, a dangerous place for
children to play in and around, or which tends to be unsightly, and which does
or tends to lower the value of adjacent real property because of its
unsightliness. Unsightly trash or junk includes property which is deteriorated,
wrecked, or derelict property in unusable condition, having no value other than
nominal scrap or junk value, if any, and which has been left unprotected
outside of a permanent structure from the elements, and shall include, without
being restricted, deteriorated, wrecked, inoperative, or partially dismantled
motor vehicles, trailers, boats, motors, snowmobiles, lawnmowers, motorcycles,
campers, refrigerators and other household appliances, furniture, household
goods and furnishings, scrap metals, or lumber, or other similar article in
such condition.
   GARBAGE, REFUSE, and LITTER. Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be
maintained, or to accumulate upon any private or public property, any animal or
vegetable matter, garbage, rubbish, or waste material improperly disposed of,
which is likely to cause or transmit disease, or which may be a hazard to
health.
   OVERGROWN VEGETATION. All weeds or plants declared to be primary or
secondary noxious weeds by the State Weed Board, and all other overgrown
vegetation likely to harbor rodents, snakes and other vermin; dead, decayed,
diseased, or hazardous trees constituting unsightly appearance or fire hazard;
and all such conditions dangerous to public safety and welfare, or causing
detriment to neighboring properties or property values.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.04  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge
or possession of any premises shall create, commit, maintain, or permit to be
created, committed, or maintained any nuisance as defined in §
90.03 within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  DUMPING; HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall throw, drop, or deposit upon any
vacant lot, public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground any dead
carcass, manure, offal, slops, kitchen refuse, hay, straw, rubbish, or other
obnoxious or offensive substance of any kind whatsoever, nor shall any such
person, firm, or corporation within the corporate limits allow any such
substance or materials to accumulate, or remain upon his or her premises long
enough to become offensive or dangerous to the health of persons residing in
said town.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall suffer or permit any cellar,
vault, private drain, cess pool, privy, or sewer, upon any premises owned or
occupied by him or her, within the corporate limits, to become nauseous,
offensive, or injurious to the public health. Any privy or cess pool which
emits any foul or offensive odor is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the
Town Board shall cause the same to be abated, and in case the owner or occupant
shall fail or refuse to purify, remove, or cleanse the same within 24 hours
after notice is given him or her by any member of the Board of Trustees, such
owner or occupant shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section and
subject to the penalties thereof.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation owning, keeping, or having in charge
any swine, kept within the corporate limits, shall allow the pens or places,
wherein said swine are kept, to become offensive or dangerous to public health.
   (D)   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or maintain a slaughter
house within the corporate limits, unless a permit shall be first obtained from
the Board of Trustees, provided that any such permit may be revoked at any time
upon 24 hours’ notice.
   (E)   Every person, firm, or corporation owning or having charge of any
stable, barn, yard, or other place where live stock are kept and manure
produced shall remove, or cause to be removed, from such stable, barn, yard, or
other place all the manure there accumulated, at least once each month,
provided that such manure shall be removed at any other time or times when, in
the judgement of the Board of Trustees, it is necessary to promote the public
health.
(Ord. 3, passed 12-2-1940)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever any person shall inform the Finance Officer that a nuisance exists,
the Finance Officer shall cause the condition to be investigated by the Street
Superintendent, and if satisfied that the complaint has merit, the Finance
Officer shall give written notice to the occupant, person in charge, or owner
to abate the nuisance condition(s) existing on the premises upon authorization
by the Board of Trustees. The notice to abate shall set forth a reasonable time
limit, in no less than five days, for correcting the violation(s), and may set
forth suggested methods of correcting the same. Such notice shall be served by
law enforcement.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.07  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   In the event that the occupant, person in charge, or owner of any lot
or parcel of land shall fail, refuse, or neglect to abate any nuisance created,
permitted, or maintained by him or her following service of a written notice to
do so, the Town Board of Trustees shall cause such nuisance to be abated in a
reasonable and prudent manner, and may for such purpose enter upon any such lot
or parcel of land.
   (B)   The cost of abatement may be charged against the owner of the personal
property abated, or the owner of the real estate upon which the nuisance was
located.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.08  ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the Town Board of
Trustees from ordering the commencement of a civil proceeding to abate a public
nuisance, or from pursuing any other remedy available under applicable law.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.09  AUTHORIZATION TO ADOPT.
   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and empowered to make and
adopt such rules and regulations, as it deems proper and necessary, for the
implementation of this chapter for the better protection of the health,
welfare, and safety of the town. In doing so, applicable federal, state, and
local standards regarding fire prevention, pollution control, public safety,
nuisance, and health regulations shall be given due consideration.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited dogs
   
91.03   Seizing and impounding
   
91.04   Pound regulations
   
91.05   Destroying animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off or outside of the premises occupied by the owner of such dog
while not in the company of, and under the control of, its owner; premises
includes a motor vehicle.
   NUISANCE. Any dog that:
      (1)   Howls or barks in such a manner as to deprive a person of peace and
quiet;
      (2)   Injures, kills, or destroys an animal, fowl, shrubbery, flowers,
garden, or other property belonging to a person, other than the owner of the
dog, when the dog is off or outside of the premises occupied by the owner; and/
or
      (3)   Is in the habit of defecating upon premises other than that
occupied by the dog owner.
   OWNER. A person, firm, association, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring a dog.
   POLICE. Any one or more persons regularly employed by the town as a law
enforcement officer, or formally appointed by the town as a dog officer
authorized to enforce the terms of this chapter, provided said appointment is
reflected in the minutes of the Town Board of Trustees.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury,
assaults, or otherwise attacks a human being upon premises not occupied by the
dog owner. No dog may be declaredVICIOUS if an injury or damage is sustained to
any person who was committing a willful trespass, or other tort, upon premises
occupied by the owner of the dog, or who was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog, or who was committing, or attempting to commit, a crime.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 10-17-1989)
§ 91.02  PROHIBITED DOGS.
   No dog shall be allowed to run at large, be a nuisance, or be a vicious dog.
Any dog that is vicious or has a propensity to be vicious and the same is
known, or ought reasonably to be known, by the owner shall be muzzled or on a
leash in charge of the owner, or member of the owner’s immediate family over 16
years of age, whenever such dog is allowed off the premises occupied by the
owner.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 10-17-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  SEIZING AND IMPOUNDING.
   A dog that is at large, a nuisance, or vicious, and off the premises
occupied by the owner, may be summarily seized by the police or by anyone, and
promptly delivered to the police and impounded. Whenever the police shall deem
a dog to be a nuisance or a vicious dog, and such dog is presently located upon
premises occupied by the owner, the police may enter such premises and
summarily seize and impound such dog.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 10-17-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  POUND REGULATIONS.
   Whenever a dog is impounded and the owner of the dog:
   (A)   Is known to the police, the police shall give notice of the impounding
by personal service or by mail upon the owner; or, if it is not known to the
police, the police shall place a notice of the impoundment upon the bulletin
board at the post office; and
   (B)   If the owner does not, within seven days after the notice is posted,
claim the dog and pay a redemption fee set by resolution, the dog may be
humanely killed or disposed of to a person agreeing to provide it a suitable
home.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 10-17-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  DESTROYING ANIMALS.
   A dog that reasonably appears to be infected with rabies may be summarily
killed by anyone. A vicious dog may be summarily killed by anyone at the time
it behaves in a vicious manner to prevent serious injury to a human. A vicious
dog that continually or repeatedly behaves in a vicious manner so as to render
its seizure unreasonable, or a vicious dog that is wild so as to render its
seizure unreasonable, may be summarily killed by the police.
(Ord. 89-7, passed 10-17-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   Straw, hay piles
   
92.02   Construction of buildings
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  STRAW, HAY PILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep, or allow
upon his or her premises, within the corporate limits, any stack or pile of hay
or straw unless the same be in a building or suitably protected by fire guards,
provided that no hay or straw shall be stacked, piled, or stored within one
block of any business building.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-2-1940)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
   Every chimney, smokestack, fireplace, stove, stovepipe, oven, boiler, or
other apparatus constructed or used in or about any building, within the
corporate limits, in any manner as to be unsafe and liable to cause or promote
fire, or liable to set such building or adjoining buildings on fire thereby or
therefrom, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and shall be abated, and the
person responsible for the maintenance thereof shall be liable for the
penalties described in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-2-1940)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Camping rates and regulations
§ 93.01  CAMPING RATES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town park allows campers to use the facilities at the town park on
a first-come, first-served basis (without prior reservations).
   (B)   Campers may remain in the town park for a maximum of three days,
unless otherwise approved.
   (C)   The town park is available for camping from May 1 through September 30
of each year.
   (D)   Self-contained campers may be used in the park during other months of
the year without the benefit of water and other campground facilities.
   (E)   The Town Board has set the following camping rate for the town park as
set by resolution.
(Res. passed 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 94:  NOISE
Section
   
94.01   Purpose and intent
   
94.02   General restrictions
   
94.03   Exceptions to application of chapter
§ 94.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, quiet, and tranquility of the citizens of the
municipality, and persons or visitors frequenting the municipality, through the
reduction, control, and prevention of noise which is disruptive and constitutes
an annoyance to the citizens and persons.
§ 94.02  GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No person may:
   (A)   Make noise or play a musical instrument audible to an adjacent
business or residence, or use sound equipment in public between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m., except as authorized by the Chief of Police;
   (B)   Operate any jack hammers or heavy equipment within 600 feet of a
residence, church, hospital, hotel, or motel between 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Operate sound equipment in a vehicle audible or causing vibration 30
feet from the equipment; or
   (D)   Make loud or disturbing, or offensive, noises with any mechanical
devices operated by compressed air, and used for purposes of assisting braking
on any semi-tractor, logging truck, or other motor vehicle, except for the
aversion of imminent danger.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The following shall be exceptions to the application of this chapter:
   (A)   Parades, community events, festivals, band concerts;
   (B)   Emergency vehicles, and for emergency purposes such as police, fire,
and ambulance sirens, or warning devices and loudspeakers used in connection
with crimes, disasters, or emergencies;
   (C)   An employee of a governmental entity engaged in the employee’s
official duty; and
   (D)   Church bells and chimes.
CHAPTER 95:  PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit; required; application
   
95.03   Permit; issuance
   
95.04   Permit; contents
   
95.05   Permit; denial; appeal procedure
   
95.06   Deviation from permit
   
95.07   Permit; revocation
   
95.08   Use of sirens by emergency vehicles participating in parade
   
95.09   Insurance requirements
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any scheduled walk, demonstration, procession, march, or motorcade
consisting of persons, animals, vehicles, or a combination thereof, having a
common purpose, design, designation, or goal, upon any public street, sidewalk,
alley, or other public thoroughfare, which does not comply with normal and
usual traffic regulations and controls.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any planned assembly, block party, demonstration, rally, or
gathering of a group of 25 or more persons, animals, vehicles, or a combination
thereof, in a public space that:
      (1)   Has a common purpose, design, or goal and:
         (a)   Which substantially inhibits the usual flow of pedestrians or
vehicular travel on public streets;
         (b)   Which involves a temporary and exclusive use of a public space;
and/or
         (c)   Involves a substantial deviation from the public space’s current
use.
      (2)   SPECIAL EVENTS do not include the following:
         (a)   Parades;
         (b)   The use of public space by governmental agencies acting within
the scope of their authority;
         (c)   Funeral processions; or
         (d)   Picnics or gatherings in reserved spaces within public parks,
which are reserved on a first-come, first-served basis.
§ 95.02  PERMIT; REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, manage, or participate in any parade or
special event unless a permit has been issued in accordance with this chapter.
If a permit is issued, no person shall conduct, manage, or participate in any
parade or special event which is in violation of the terms or conditions of the
permit.
   (B)   A permit must be applied for in writing on a form obtained from the
town or any designated department, and shall be filed at least 72 hours prior
to the commencement of any parade or special event, unless an exception to the
deadline is granted by the town, or as provided in division (D) below. Late
applications may be accepted at the discretion of the town or designee. The
application shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of any individual, group,
association, firm, or corporation requesting the permit, and the applicable
title or office of the person so applying;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person(s)
responsible for the organization, coordination, and conduct of the proposed
activity;
      (3)   Time and date of commencement, and termination of the proposed
activity;
      (4)   A detailed narrative and timeline, nature, and purpose of the
parade or special event, including a description of all activities, schedule of
events, and all other pertinent information;
      (5)   A detailed event site plan mapping the physical areas for the
event;
      (6)   The anticipated maximum number of persons, vehicles, bands, floats,
and other units of persons, horses, or other animals to participate; and
      (7)   Such other reasonably relevant information as the municipal staff
may request for investigation of the application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit nonrefundable permit fee(s) to be set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees with the application. Additional fees
approved by resolution of the Board of Trustees may also be required. If the
municipality or its designees determine that the event requires or utilizes
municipal resources beyond what is reasonable for a parade or special event,
staff may deny the permit or may charge applicant additional fees equivalent to
the town’s cost to provide the resources. Such fees may include municipality
cost to provide barricades, police presence, sanitation, waste removal, picnic
tables, and the like, and may be billed before the permit is issued, or after
the parade or special event occurs.
   (D)   Demonstrations as defined below may be issued a special event or
parade permit, as applicable. The municipality or its designee may consider an
application that is filed after the filing deadline if there is sufficient time
to process and investigate the permit application and to obtain municipal
services for the event, and if the circumstance that gave rise to the event
application did not reasonably allow the applicant apply within the time
prescribed in division (B) above. A DEMONSTRATION under this section is defined
a parade or special event which involves a rally, picketing, speech making,
march, vigil, religious service, or similar gathering that primarily involves
the communication or expression of opinions, grievances, or personal views.
§ 95.03  PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Special event and parade permit considerations. The municipal
officials reviewing all permit applications shall evaluate the following
considerations in deciding on each application:
      (1)   Whether the event promotes the community as a whole;
      (2)   Whether the event provides positive civic and economic benefit;
      (3)   The impact upon neighboring business and properties;
      (4)   The frequency of closures of streets/public spaces for parades and
special events;
      (5)   Other events or activities that are permitted at the same time and/
or location;
      (6)   The applicant’s conduct and compliance in sponsoring prior events;
      (7)   The health, safety, and public welfare of event participants, and
the impact of the event on the health, safety, and public welfare of all
citizens;
      (8)   If applicable, whether the applicant conformed to all permit
requirements and the provisions in this chapter in holding any previous parades
or special events; and
      (9)   The financial and practical ability of the applicant to conduct the
proposed parade or special event in conformance with the provisions of the
permit and this chapter.
   (B)   Parade permit.
      (1)   The municipality, or its designee, may issue a parade permit after
evaluating the application, such other information as may otherwise be
obtained, and the considerations in division (A) above.
      (2)   No parade permit shall be issued if:
         (a)   The proposed activity will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of traffic;
         (b)   The proposed activity will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the activity and the
areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the town;
         (c)   The proposed activity will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
town, other than that to be occupied by the activity and other areas contiguous
thereto;
         (d)   Any concentration of persons, animals, units, floats, or
vehicles at assembly points of the proposed activity will unduly interfere with
proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous
to the assembly areas;
         (e)   There is reason to believe that the proposed activity will not
move from its point of origin to its point of termination, expeditiously and
without unreasonable delay;
         (f)   Other similar scheduled activities for which permits have been
issued will conflict with the activity proposed in the permit application;
         (g)   Applicant supervision for the proposed activity is inadequate,
or volunteer/staff support for the parade is insufficient;
         (h)   The parade does not follow the standard parade route designated
by the town, unless the town finds that a deviation from this route is
substantially justified;
         (i)   The parade will adversely affect adjacent or neighboring
properties by causing excessive noise or creating a nuisance;
         (j)   The parade will be conducted primarily for the purpose of
private monetary gain or commercial advertisement; or
         (k)   The parade will fail to comply in any respect with the
provisions of this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (C)   Special event permit.
      (1)   The town, or its designee, may issue a special event permit after
evaluating consideration of the application, such other information as may be
otherwise obtained, and the considerations in division (A) above.
      (2)   No special event permit shall be issued if:
         (a)   The proposed activity will substantially interrupt the normal
and customary use of the public space;
         (b)   The proposed activity will impose an unreasonable burden upon
the Police Department, Fire Department, or ambulance service;
         (c)   The proposed activity is scheduled to be held at an
inappropriate time and or in an inappropriate location;
         (d)   Other similar scheduled activities for which permits have been
issued will conflict with the special event proposed in the permit application;
         (e)   Applicant supervision for the proposed activity is inadequate,
or volunteer/staff support for the proposed event is insufficient;
         (f)   The special event will cause unreasonable injury or damage to
the public space requested;
         (g)   The event will involve such a number of persons or activities as
will exceed the reasonable capacity of the public space requested;
         (h)   The special event will cause unreasonable adverse effects on
adjacent or neighboring properties by causing excessive noise or creating a
nuisance;
         (i)   The special event will be conducted primarily for the purpose of
private monetary gain or commercial advertisement; or
         (j)   The special event will fail to comply in any respect with the
provisions of this chapter or any other applicable law.
§ 95.04  PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The permits provided in this chapter shall include all information in
the application and shall be signed by the municipal official, as appropriate,
or their designees, with a signed copy kept with the application on file in the
municipal office issuing the permit. The permit may include any terms or
conditions necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, and
welfare, and for the protection of the public space to be utilized.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until the insurance required under this
chapter has been filed with the town.
   (C)   Issuance of a permit shall not constitute municipal endorsement or
sponsorship of the parade or special event. No permittee shall represent,
advertise, promote, or otherwise publish any claim of municipal endorsement or
sponsorship of the parade or event unless the town authorizes such a claim by
explicitly endorsing or sponsoring the parade or special event.
§ 95.05  PERMIT; DENIAL; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to file a written appeal of the
denial of a permit to the Board of Trustees not later than seven days after
notice of denial. The reason for the denial shall be provided in writing.
§ 95.06  DEVIATION FROM PERMIT.
   No person organizing, conducting, coordinating, or participating in any
activity for which a permit has been granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall deviate from or alter any of the terms, conditions, or contents
of the permit without the express permission of the municipal official issuing
the permit or its designee.
§ 95.07  PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
municipal official issuing the permit, or his or her designee in the following
circumstances:
   (A)   The violation by the permittee of any applicable provisions, terms, or
conditions of the permit, or of state law or ordinance;
   (B)   The event is causing, or expected to cause, physical damage to persons
or property;
   (C)   The event is interfering, or will interfere, with fire or police
protection, or an emergency arises making it impossible to assign necessary
personnel to the special event needed to protect the public safety;
   (D)   The event is creating, or threatening to create, a health hazard;
   (E)   Information is obtained after the permit is issued from which the town
may reasonably conclude that the permit should have been denied; or
   (F)   The town finds that the insurance required by §
95.09 has lapsed or has been cancelled.
§ 95.08  USE OF SIRENS BY EMERGENCY VEHICLES PARTICIPATING IN PARADE.
   Emergency vehicles participating in any parade or special event shall not
sound sirens, except when, and if, any emergency should arise and the vehicle
must clear the area.
§ 95.09  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Special event and parade organizers shall provide adequate insurance
coverage with designated limits. The insurance policy shall name the town and
its representatives as an additional insured.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   AUCTION SALES
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Storing junk
   
110.02   Airport leases and rental rates
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  STORING JUNK.
   All junk, used motor vehicle parts, used motor vehicles incapable of being
operated, old iron, unusable farm machinery, and other unsightly materials kept
within the limits of the town must be stored in a building, or on a tract of
land surrounded by a substantial opaque fence at least six feet high.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-7-1955)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  AIRPORT LEASES AND RENTAL RATES.
   (A)   Ten cents per square foot, as determined by the County Director of
Equalization, shall be paid annually to lease the ground on which privately-
owned hangars are erected, plus rates as set by resolution, where applicable.
   (B)   A nightly rental fee for hangar use, when a hangar is available, shall
be established at $5.
   (C)   An annual fee of $500 shall be established for pilots to lease a
hangar owned by the town.
(Res. passed 12-26-2018)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.01 by so keeping such articles in a manner other than herein provided, or
allowing such articles to be so kept or stored on lots owned or controlled by
him or her shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
and sentenced to not more than 30 days in the town jail, and each day that such
articles are stored in violation of this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-7-1955)
CHAPTER 111:  AUCTION SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Requirements
   
111.03   Exempt sales
   
111.04   Auction receipts
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTION SALE. The offering for sale or selling of personal property to the
highest bidder, or offering for sale or selling of personal property at a high
price and then offering the personal property at successive lower prices until
a buyer is secured.
   NEW MERCHANDISE. Any merchandise not previously sold at retail.
(SDCL § 37-14-2)
§ 111.02  REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
other state or local license.
(SDCL § 37-14-5)
§ 111.03  EXEMPT SALES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not extend to the sale at public auction
of livestock, farm machinery, or farm produce, or any other item commonly sold
at farm sale, to any auction sale held under authority of, or under the
supervision and direction of, any court of this state, or to any person, firm,
or corporation who has been engaged in business in this state for a period of
at least one year, conducting a closing out or stock reduction sale of the
business.
(SDCL § 37-14-4)
§ 111.04  AUCTION RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Any money that an auction cashier receives on behalf of a client from
an auction sale shall be deposited in a separate account maintained for auction
sale proceeds only.
(SDCL § 37-14-18)
   (B)   Any money that an auction cashier receives on behalf of a client from
an auction sale shall be given to the client within 20 working days of the
auction sale. This section does not apply to any bad check or if there is a
prior written agreement between the client and the cashier.
(SDCL § 37-14-19)
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not apply to any livestock auction
agency licensed pursuant to SDCL Ch. 40-15, or to any real estate sale.
(SDCL § 37-14-20)
CHAPTER 112:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Excessive interest
   
112.02   Sale of pledge during time for redemption
   
112.03   Conduct of business without a license
   
112.04   Refusal to disclose purchaser and price of article sold
   
112.05   Refusal to exhibit stolen goods
§ 112.01  EXCESSIVE INTEREST.
   No pawnbroker who receives goods in pledge for loans shall charge any rate
of interest above that allowed by law.
(SDCL § 37-16-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02  SALE OF PLEDGE DURING TIME FOR REDEMPTION.
   No pawnbroker shall sell any article received by him or her in pledge before
the time to redeem the same has expired.
(SDCL § 37-16-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03  CONDUCT OF BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   All pawnbrokers in the town shall apply for and receive a license to carry
on the business of a pawnbroker pursuant to SDCL § 9-34-8.
(SDCL § 37-16-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04  REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PURCHASER AND PRICE OF ARTICLE SOLD.
   Any pawnbroker shall not refuse to disclose the purchaser and price received
by him or her for any article received by him or her in pledge and subsequently
sold.
(SDCL § 37-16-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05  REFUSAL TO EXHIBIT STOLEN GOODS.
   Any pawnbroker and junk dealer who, having received any goods which have
been stolen, shall not refuse to exhibit them upon demand during usual business
hours to the owner of such goods, or his or her agents authorized to demand an
inspection.
(SDCL § 37-16-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES INVOLVING INJURY OR DANGER TO THE PERSON
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Malicious mischief
   
130.02   Public indecency
   
130.03   Intoxication
   
130.04   Curfew of minors
   
130.05   Fighting and disorderly conduct
   
130.06   Cruelty to animals
   
130.07   Careless dumping of ashes
   
130.08   Firearms, fireworks
   
130.09   Gambling devices
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   Any person who shall unlawfully, maliciously, or wantonly mar, injure,
deface, destroy, or remove any fence, gate, sidewalk, sign, signpost,
signboard, awning, lamp post, house, or building, or other property of another,
within the limits of the town shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as set
by resolution.
(Ord. 14, passed 5-7-1946)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   Any person who shall appear in any street or alley, or in any public or
exposed place in a state of nudity, or who shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person, or who shall commit any indecent, obscene, or filthy act, or
who shall be guilty of any indecent, lewd, immoral, or insulting conduct,
language, or behavior, within the limits of the town shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine as set by resolution.
(Ord. 14, passed 5-7-1946)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to be found in a state of
intoxication or drunkenness upon the streets or alleys, or in any public place
in said town and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine.
(Ord. 14, passed 5-7-1946)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  CURFEW OF MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the ages of 16 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play, ride, or be in any motor vehicle in or
upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, public buildings,
places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised
places, or to be or remain in any dance hall, café, restaurant, theater, or
other public place between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, official city time; provided, however, that the provisions of
this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parents,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business, directed by
his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor, and provided further, that this section does not in any way apply
to any minor after he or she shall have reached his or her sixteenth birthday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the parent or guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor who has not reached the age of 16 years,
to knowingly permit such minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play, or
ride, or be in any motor vehicle in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places and public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places, or to be or remain in any dance hall, café, restaurant,
theater, or other public place between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of
the following day, official city time; provided, however, that the provisions
of this section do not apply when the minor is accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating
places of amusements and entertainment, cafés, restaurants, or other public
places to permit minors under the age of 16 years to enter or remain in such
place of amusement and entertainment, restaurant, café, theater, or other
public place during the hours prohibited under this section, or owner of, or
operator of any motor vehicle to permit or allow any minor to be in or ride in
such motor vehicle during the hours that are prohibited by division (A) above;
provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not apply when the
minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor.
(Ord. 43, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  FIGHTING AND DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fight, or threaten to fight, or
commit an assault, or an assault and battery, or curse, swear, or use violent
or threatening language, or make any great noises so as to disturb the peace of
the town, or any unlawful assembly of persons or of any neighborhood family,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine.
(Ord. 14, passed 5-7-1946)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   Any person who shall, in the town, neglect to properly take care of or feed
any animal shall be fined, and the Town Marshal or other officer shall take
such action as may be necessary for the immediate protection of such animal or
animals.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  CARELESS DUMPING OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump live ashes about his or her
premises, or any other place where such ashes might become a menace to property
by being blown by wind, or scattered by other causes. All persons are cautioned
to make certain they extinguish all fire from their ashes before dumping them,
or place them in a pit or container with suitable lid on either.
(Ord. 13, passed 1-25-1943)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  FIREARMS, FIREWORKS.
   Any person who shall, in the town, discharge or shoot off any gun, pistol,
or other firearm shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum.
(Ord. 10, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09  GAMBLING DEVICES.
   Any person who shall, in the town, play poker or any other gambling game, or
games of chance where money or any article of value is staked or wagered shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding $125, and costs; and
any person or persons keeping, owning, or conducting any gambling device or
game of chance, which includes, among other things, a board in which holes are
covered by paper wafers or otherwise contain numbers, which are revealed after
payment of a fee by punching or removing the covering, the number corresponding
to prizes, is a lottery device even though each player is entitled to a certain
return in addition to the possibility of a prize.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Disorder and disturbances
   
131.02   Disorderly conduct
   
131.03   Unlawful assembly
   
131.04   Refusal to disperse or refrain from riot or unlawful assembly
   
131.05   Loud and raucous noise
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Editor’s Note:
   Enforcement of this chapter is through the Sheriff’s Office.
§ 131.01  DISORDER AND DISTURBANCES.
   The town shall have power to provide for keeping and preserving the peace
and quietness of the town, to prevent disorderly conduct, to prohibit public
intoxication, and to prevent and suppress riots, affrays, noises, disturbances,
and disorderly assemblies in any place.
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.02  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who intentionally causes serious public inconvenience, annoyance,
or alarm to any other person, or creates a risk thereof is guilty of disorderly
conduct by engaging in the following:
   (A)   Engaging in fighting or in violent or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Making unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority; or
   (D)   Obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   Any person who assembles with two or more persons for the purpose of
engaging in conduct constituting riot or aggravated riot, or who, if being
present at an assembly that either has or develops such a purpose, remains
there with intent to advance that purpose is guilty of unlawful assembly.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  REFUSAL TO DISPERSE OR REFRAIN FROM RIOT OR UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to, during a riot or unlawful assembly,
intentionally disobey a reasonable public safety order to move, disperse, or
refrain from specified activities in the immediate vicinity of the riot.
   (B)   A PUBLIC SAFETY ORDER is an order designed to prevent or control
disorder, or promote the safety of persons or property, issued by a law
enforcement officer, or a member of the fire or military forces concerned with
the riot or unlawful assembly.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make or allow, or
cause to be made or continued, any loud and raucous noise. Quieter standards
are expected during nighttime hours.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE shall
mean any sound that, because of its volume level, duration, and character
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, health, peace, or safety
of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities within the limits of the town.
         (b)   This term includes the types of noise generated by the
activities enumerated  in division (C) below, except as may be excluded in
division (D) below. The term shall be limited to LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE heard
in any occupied residential unit which is not the source of the noise, or upon
the yard or driveway of such occupied residential unit, upon the public
sidewalks and streets, school, or public building, or upon the grounds thereof
while in use, upon any parking lot open to members of the public as invitees or
licensees, and in any event from a location not less that 50 feet from the
source of the noise, measured in a straight line from the radio, loudspeaker,
voice, or other noise source.
   (B)   Prohibited noise from a gathering of people.
      (1)   No person in possession and present in any premises shall make or
cause, or allow to be made or allow to be continue, any loud and raucous noise
resulting from a gathering of people. Quieter standards are expected during
nighttime hours.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(1) above, the term LOUD AND
RAUCOUS NOISE resulting from a gathering of people shall mean any sound that,
because of its volume level, duration, and character annoys, disturbs, injures,
or endangers the comfort, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons or
ordinary sensibilities within the limits of the town.
         (b)   The term includes the types of noise generated by the activities
enumerated in division (C) below, except as provided in division (D) below. The
term shall be limited to LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE heard in any occupied
residential unit which is not the source of the noise, or upon the yard or
driveway of such occupied residential unit, upon the public sidewalks of any
streets, in any public park, in any school or public building, or upon the
grounds thereof while in use, upon any parking lot open to members of the
public as invitees or licensees, and in any event from a location not less than
50 feet from the source of the noise, measured in a straight line from the
radio, loudspeaker, voice, or other noise source.
   (C)   Activities. The following acts, subject to the exceptions in division
(D) below, are declared to be public nuisances in violation of divisions (A)
and (B) above:
      (1)   Radios, amplifiers, phonographs, and other devices for producing or
reproducing sound. The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated any radio, amplifier, musical instrument, tape player, compact disc,
compact tape, or phonograph, or other device for the producing or reproducing
of sound in such manner as to cause loud and raucous noise.
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, and prolonged sounds by people. Yelling,
shouting, whistling, or singing, or any prolonged sounds made by people, at any
time or place so as to create a loud and raucous noise between the hours of 9:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
   (D)   Exceptions.  The term LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE does not include noise or
sound generated by the following:
      (1)   Cries for emergency assistance and warning calls;
      (2)   Radios, sirens, horns, and bells on police, fire, and other
emergency response vehicles;
      (3)   Activities on or in municipal and school athletic facilities, and
on or in publicly owned property and facilities, provided that such activities
have been authorized by the owner of such property or facilities or its agent;
      (4)   Fire alarms and security alarms, prior to the giving of notice and
a reasonable opportunity for the owner or tenant in possession of the premises
served by any such alarm to turn off the alarm.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES INVOLVING INJURY OR DANGER TO THE PERSON
Section
   
132.01   Threatening or harassing phone calls
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 THREATENING OR HARASSING PHONE CALLS.
   It is unlawful for a person to use a telephone for any of the following
purposes:
   (A)   To call another person with intent to terrorize, intimidate, threaten,
harass, or annoy such person by using obscene or lewd language, or by
suggesting a lewd or lascivious act;
   (B)   To call another person with intent to threaten to inflict physical
harm or injury to any person or property;
   (C)   To call another person with intent to extort money or other things of
value; and/or
   (D)   To call another person with intent to disturb him or her by repeated
anonymous telephone calls, or intentionally failing to replace the receiver or
disengage the telephone connection.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ALLEYS, AND TREES
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ALLEYS, AND TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Obstructions; maintenance; cleanliness
   
150.02   Construction of sidewalks
Trees
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Arborist license and bond
   
150.17   Street tree species
   
150.18   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants
   
150.19   Utilities
   
150.20   Public tree care
   
150.21   Tree topping
   
150.22   Pruning, corner clearance
   
150.23   Dead or diseased tree removal; private property
   
150.24   Removal of stumps
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  OBSTRUCTIONS; MAINTENANCE; CLEANLINESS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall drop any awning of any material,
nor in any manner suffer any such awning, to be hung or suspended nearer than
seven feet from the surface of the sidewalk.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall place or maintain any eaves
spout or pipe from the eaves of any building in such manner that the water
therefrom shall be discharged upon or over any sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct the Overseer
of Highways, or any employee of said town, when such officer or employee is
lawfully engaged in improving or repairing any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public ground within said town.
   (D)   The owner or occupant of any premises in the town abutting upon any
public sidewalk shall, within 24 hours after any fall of snow, remove such snow
from that portion of such sidewalk as adjoins his or her premises so occupied
or owned.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, tricycle, or
velocipede upon any sidewalk within said town.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning or
having in charge any horse, mule, sheep, swine, or other like animal to allow
or permit any such animal or animals to run at large within said town. It shall
be the duty of law enforcement to take up and impound any and all such animals
found running at large.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm, or corporation owning or
occupying any lot, or parcel of ground, within the corporate limits, abutting
upon any street or alley, to keep the sidewalk thereon, and such street and
alley, free from all filth, unwholesome substances, manure, paper, straw, or
rubbish of any kind, and in case any such owner or occupant fails to remove the
same after 24 hours’ notice given to him or her, or shall be guilty of
violating this subchapter, and the Board of Trustees are authorized to cause
any such materials or rubbish to be removed, and an action may be commenced in
the name of the town to recover, from such owner or occupant, the cost and
expense of removing the same.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-2-1940)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All public sidewalks hereinafter constructed within the town shall be
constructed of cement and rock in a five to one (5:1) ratio, and shall be at
least four inches in thickness.
   (B)   All sidewalks in the residence section of the town shall be 42 inches
wide, and the inner edge of said sidewalks shall be placed 18 inches out from
the property line, except that where streets as platted are 50 feet wide or
less, the inner edge of the sidewalks in the residence section of the town
shall be placed on the property line. All sidewalks in the business district in
the town shall be nine and one-half feet wide, and the inner edge thereof shall
be situated on the property line.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be kept clear of surface debris and overhanging
trees, branches, and bushes for a vertical distance of at least eight feet and
if, after having been served with notice to remove such obstructions, the
property owner fails to do so, the town may remove the same and charge the
expense thereof to the property owner.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot or lots within the town,
when required so to do in writing by the Town Board, to build, maintain, and
repair the sidewalk in front of his or her premises, and if he or she fails to
do so, the town may cause such sidewalks to be constructed, and the cost of the
same to be levied against the owner of said property in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 27, passed 4-11-1955)  Penalty, see §
150.99
TREES
§ 150.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)
§ 150.16  ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for, and procuring, a license. The license fee
shall be $25 annually in advance, provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company or town employee doing such work in the
pursuit of his or her public service endeavors. Before any license shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury, and $100,000
property damage, indemnifying the town or any person injured or damaged
resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17  STREET TREE SPECIES.
   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the
town. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the town. Spacing shall ensure that
city equipment is able to go down the street.
   (A)   Small trees:
      (1)   Sand cherry;
      (2)   Buffaloberry;
      (3)   Cotoneaster;
      (4)   Lilac;
      (5)   Amur maple;
      (6)   Apricot;
      (7)   Chokecherry;
      (8)   Crabapple; and/or
      (9)   Plum.
   (B)   Medium trees:
      (1)   Honeylocust;
      (2)   E.R. cedar ash;
      (3)   Hackberry;
      (4)   Russian olive;
      (5)   Nanking cherry; and/or
      (6)   Elm.
   (C)   Large trees:
      (1)   Poplar;
      (2)   Cottonwood (seedless);
      (3)   Boxelder;
      (4)   Ponderosa pine; and/or
      (5)   Willow.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)
§ 150.18  DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire hydrants.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19  UTILITIES.
   No street trees, other than those species listed as small trees in §
150.17 of this subchapter, may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20  PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to insure public safety,
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The town may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree, or part
thereof, which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature, is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other
pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners, providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with §§
150.17 and
150.18 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)
§ 150.21  TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or town
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING shall mean the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree’s crown, to such a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the town.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22  PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp, or obstruct the view of any street intersection,
and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
   (B)   Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light, or interferes with visibility of any traffic control
device or sign.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23  DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the town. The town will notify, in writing, the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at his or her own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the town shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24  REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed so that the top of the
stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 12-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Public fallout shelters; liability
§ 151.01  PUBLIC FALLOUT SHELTERS; LIABILITY.
   No building owner, lease-holder, or building manager in the town shall be
liable for personal injury suits, or claims for damages, resulting from injury
or harm befalling any individual while such person may be entering, occupying,
or leaving the building, having sought shelter in such building from nuclear
fallout. The word OCCUPYING shall mean the use of basement, corridors, or any
floor of such building.
(Ord. 32, passed 8-10-1966)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
- -      2-24-1969   Grand Electric Cooperative, Inc.; board members.
82-2     5-12-1982   West River Cooperative Telephone Company; expired 5-12-
                     2002.
89-7     11-20-1989  Grand Electric Cooperative, Inc.; expired 12-10-2009.
2005-1   3-7-2005    River Cable Television, Inc.; expires 4-6-2025.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cite Code Section
SDCL Cite           Code Section
9-1-1               10.02;
                    10.04
9-13-13             10.04
9-19-1              10.04
9-19-3              10.99
9-29-3              131.01
9-29-16             32.01
9-29-19             32.01
9-34-8              112.03
                    31.02;
10-45               31.05;
                    31.99
                    31.03;
10-46               31.05;
                    31.99
10-52               31.01;
                    31.04
32-17-1 to 32-17-26 70.33
32-23               70.99
37-14-2             111.01
37-14-4             111.03
37-14-5             111.02
37-14-18            111.04
37-14-19            111.04
37-14-20            111.04
37-16-1             112.01
37-16-2             112.02
37-16-3             112.03
37-16-4             112.04
37-16-5             112.05
40-15               111.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        12-10-2018  52.03
-        12-26-2018  110.02
-        12-10-2019  93.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
7        - -         Ch. 72, Schd. I
9        - -         130.06
10       - -         130.08
11       - -         130.09
29       - -         TSO Table I
                     70.02;
36       - -         70.15-
                     70.33
41       - -         51.01
42       - -         71.15-
                     71.17
43       - -         130.04
2014-2   - -         50.04
-        12-2-1940   30.15-
                     30.18
2        12-2-1940   150.01
3        12-2-1940   90.05
5        12-2-1940   92.01;
                     92.02
12       6-17-1942   70.03
13       1-25-1943   130.07
                     130.01-
14       5-7-1946    130.03;
                     130.05
17       7-19-1949   TSO Table I
22       12-7-1953   30.30;
                     30.31
23       12-7-1953   30.01
24       5-3-1954    52.01;
                     52.02
25       1-3-1955    70.02
27       4-11-1955   150.02
28       11-7-1955   110.01;
                     110.99
30       2-13-1956   TSO Table I
32       8-10-1966   151.01
33       9-12-1967   70.01
35       2-12-1969   TSO Table I
-        2-24-1969   TSO Table I
82-2     5-12-1982   TSO Table I
89-7     10-17-1989  91.01-
                     91.05
89-7     11-20-1989  TSO Table I
92-7     12-6-1992   150.15-
                     150.24
99-2     7-6-1999    50.99
                     90.01-
2000-1   8-7-2000    90.04;
                     90.06-
                     90.09
2005-1   3-7-2005    TSO Table I
                     31.01-
2007-1   8-30-2007   31.05;
                     31.99
                     50.01;
2008-2   11-12-2008  50.02-
                     50.04
2011-01  4-11-2011   71.01-
                     71.03
2015-2   12-7-2015   52.04
2021-1   - -2021     31.20
                    
 
