BURKE, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 90.35, passed 6-10-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-12-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BURKE, SOUTH DAKOTA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of Legislature of the State of South Dakota empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF BURKE, SOUTH DAKOTA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Burke, South
Dakota.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
                           I. Rezoning
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
                           References to South Dakota Codified Laws
                           References to Prior Code
                           References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Finance Officer of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such
Code of Ordinances in the Finance Office of the City of Burke, South Dakota.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force as provided in Section 6, and
such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Burke City Council on
this _____ day of ____, 20____.
ATTEST:
                                                                                                        
Mike Glover                           JJ Wolf
Finance Officer                           Mayor
(seal)
Passed First Reading:   12/13/2021
Passed Second Reading:   1/10/2022
Adopted:            1/10/2022
Published:            1/12/2022
Effective:            2/1/2022
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.15   Boundaries and territorial limits
   
10.16   Seal
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Burke Code,” for
which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARSD. Administrative Rules of South Dakota.
   CITY. The city of Burke, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   CURB. Applies to the curb on such streets as are fitted with curbs, and on
such streets as are not fitted, it is the outside edge of the parking, as
defined by ordinances.
   COUNTY. The County of Gregory, South Dakota.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
   FOOD. Includes milk and dairy.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Burke.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
   MAY. A permissive term allowing the actor discretion as to wether of not he
or she will undertake to either perform or refrain from doing an act.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or CITY. The City of Burke, South
Dakota.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular number include the plural and the plural
of the singular, except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
   PERSON. Any natural person or persons, non-profit or for-profit business,
venture, firm, corporation, or any other legal entity.
   POLICE. Any law enforcement official required by law to enforce state
statutes and local ordinances.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character, for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   SECTION. A particular part of this municipal code.
   SHALL. A mandatory term requiring any act to be performed or to refrain from
performing an act.
   SIDE OF A STREET.
      (1)   LEFT-HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side of the street as the left-hand
side of the street of the driver of the vehicle, when seated in the proper
position to drive, use, or operate the vehicle.
      (2)   RIGHT-HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side of the street as the right-
hand side of the street of the driver of the vehicle, when seated in the proper
position to drive, use, or operate the vehicle.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. STREET includes ALLEY, AVENUE, and THOROUGHFARES whenever it is used
in the general sense.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, cycle, or motorcycle, except road rollers, fire
wagons and engines, police patrol wagons, and ambulances, intended for the use
on the streets and thoroughfares, and shall include equestrians and led and
driven horses.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.15 BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The city shall include all territory embraced within original township
of the city, Waterman’s addition thereto, and all adjacent territory that may
have been heretofore, or shall hereafter be, legally annexed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
   (B)   All elections, whether general or special, shall be held in one voting
precinct and all wards, to wit: Ward I, Ward II, and Ward III shall be
consolidated as one voting precinct.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-13
§ 10.16 SEAL.
   The seal of the city shall be circular in form, consisting of two circular
impressions, one within the other and far enough apart that the words “Burke
City Council” may be plainly legible, enclosed in the upper-half and the words
“Burke, South Dakota” plainly and legible enclosed in the lower-half. In the
center shall be the words “Corporate Seal.”
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-1-4
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as this code and/or ordinance otherwise specifically provides,
any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of its provisions, or
failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
   (B)   Whenever any person, clerk, servant, agent, or employee of any other
person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of this code,
he or she shall be deemed guilty as a principal and shall be punished as
provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2)
   (C)   Each and every violation of the provisions of this code shall
constitute a separate offense and may be so charged and prosecuted.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 16-2-34, 21-8-2
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Mayor; duties and powers
   
30.03   City Council members; duties and powers
   
30.04   Regular meetings
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The city shall be governed by a Mayor and six City Council members, and
these persons shall be called the governing body of City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-8
§ 30.02 MAYOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The chief executive officer of the city shall be the Mayor, and shall
be elected from the city at large for a term of two years and until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. He or she must be a qualified elector of
the city, and shall have resided therein for at least one year before his or
her election.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor of the city shall have those duties as prescribed by
the laws of the state, the ordinances of the city, and the City Council.
      (2)   He or she shall appoint all appointive offices of the city, but
such appointments must be approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided by law, he or she shall have the power
to remove from office any officer appointed by him or her.
      (4)   Within the jurisdiction of the municipality, he or she shall have
all the powers conferred by law upon city police to suppress disorder and to
keep the peace.
      (5)   He or she shall have the power, when necessary, to call upon every
male inhabitant of the city over the age of 18 years to aid in the enforcement
of laws and ordinances.
      (6)   He or she may release any person imprisoned for violating a city
ordinance, or remit any fine or penalty for violation thereof.
      (7)   He or she shall annually, and from time to time, give the City
Council information relative to the affairs of the city and recommend, for its
consideration, such measures as he or she deems expedient.
      (8)   He or she shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or
measure passed by the City Council, and the power to veto any part or any item
of any ordinance or resolution appropriating money.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-1, 9-8-3
§ 30.03 CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Defined. Two City Council members shall be elected at large from each
ward for a term of two years and until their successors are elected and
qualified. There shall be one City Council member elected from each ward at
each annual election for the regular term. Each City Council member shall be a
resident and a qualified elector of the ward from which he or she is elected,
and shall have resided in the city at least one year prior to his or her
election.
   (B)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   The City Council shall determine its own rules and procedures and
punish its members for disorderly conduct, and with the concurrence of four
City Council members, may expel a member.
      (2)   The City Council shall meet at regular meetings with the City
Council members at the hour of 7:00 p.m. on the second Monday of each month;
when such Mondays fall upon a legal holiday, as recognized by state or federal
law, the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the following day.
      (3)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or
by any two City Council members, at any time, to consider only such matters as
shall be mentioned in the call for such meetings; and personal notice of such
meetings shall be given, either in writing or by telephone, to each member of
the City Council by the Finance Officer, when requested by the Mayor or two
City Council members.
      (4)   A majority of the City Council members elected shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The
meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public.
      (5)   At the first regular meeting after the annual election in each year
and after qualification of the newly elected City Council members, the City
Council shall elect, from among its own members, a President and Vice
President, who shall hold their respective offices for the municipal year.
      (6)   The President of the City Council, in the absence of the Mayor,
shall be the presiding officer of the City Council and during the absence of
the Mayor from the city, or the temporary disability, shall be acting Mayor and
possess all of the powers of the Mayor. In the absence or disability of the
Mayor and President of the City Council, the Vice President shall perform the
duties of the Mayor and President of the City Council.
   (C)   Meetings. No business shall be transacted at any special meeting,
except that which was mentioned in said notice thereof, but when the Mayor and
all of the City Council members are present at a special meeting, and all of
the City Council members concur in the vote, then the business transacted shall
be valid, even though the meeting was not called, as herein provided, and the
business transacted was different than that for which the meeting was called.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-8
§ 30.04 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   At all regular meetings of the City Council after the same shall have been
called to order, the business of the meeting shall be considered in the
following order:
   (A)   Calling the roll of members;
   (B)   Correction and approval of the minutes of the last regular meeting and
of any intervening special meeting or meetings;
   (C)   Presentation of claims and communications;
   (D)   Introduction and first reading of ordinances;
   (E)   Introductions of resolutions;
   (F)   Reports of standing and special committees;
   (G)   Second reading and final passage of ordinances;
   (H)   Reports of city officers;
   (I)   Unfinished business; and
   (J)   Miscellaneous business.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-8
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Appointive Officers
   
31.01   Officer appointment
   
31.02   City Attorney
   
31.03   Chief of Police
   
31.04   City auditorium
   
31.05   Superintendent of Utilities
   
31.06   Other appointive officers and employees
   
31.07   Compensation of officers
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
§ 31.01 OFFICER APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the
following officers, who shall enter upon the discharge of their duties as soon
as they have duly qualified, and shall hold office until appointment and
qualification of their successors. Salaries of such officers may be fixed by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
§ 31.02 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to those duties prescribed for a City Attorney in
the state law, the City Attorney shall represent the city in all matters of
city business, prepare such ordinances, motions, or other papers as are
incidental to the affairs of the city, advise the city officials with respect
to legal affairs of the city, and represent the city in litigation in which the
city is named as a party. But, it is expressly understood that in cases or
matters involving special assessments, bond issues, local improvements,
revisions of ordinances and litigation, except in circuit court, the City
Attorney shall be entitled to reasonable compensation to be fixed by the
governing body in addition to the City Attorney’s annual salary.
      (2)   In case of the absence of the City Attorney or his or her
incapacity, or in matters deemed by the governing body to be of great
importance to the city, or matter in which the city governing body deems the
City Attorney needs assistance, a special attorney may be employed at such
reasonable pay as shall be directed by it.
   (B)   In addition to any reasonable compensation, the City Attorney shall
receive from the city for working on matters involving special assessments,
bond issues, local improvements, revision of ordinances, and litigation, except
in circuit court, an annual retainer of $600, plus his or her hourly rate for
drafting contracts, research, attending meetings, and related city business.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-14
§ 31.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have the general supervision of all the members of
the police force and shall see that the ordinances of the city and the laws of
the state are enforced within the city. His or her duties shall include all
those which are ordinarily undertaken by a Chief of Police, and all those
provided by this subchapter and the laws of the state. He or she shall receive
a salary set by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-14
§ 31.04 CITY AUDITORIUM.
   (A)   The city’s auditorium shall be under the direct charge of the Chief of
Police or Finance Officer, subject to the control and direction by the City
Council; it may be used for all public purposes, including: patriotic meetings;
funerals, when desired; and meetings of community organizations and farmers,
not for profit without charge.
   (B)   It may be used by the school authorities for basketball and otherwise,
upon such terms as may be agreed upon by the City Council and the Board of
Education, but a reasonable charge shall be made to all persons desiring to use
the same for dances and all other purposes for profit, and for such purposes
the City Finance Officer is hereby designated as booking agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 31.05 SUPERINTENDENT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall have the general
supervision of the entire water and sewer system of the city and electric
distribution system of the city.
   (B)   He or she would be required to procure assistance to, but not
supervision of, an individual who would be classified as foreperson of streets,
parks, and public buildings. He or she would assist the foreperson of streets,
parks, and public in enforcing all building codes adopted by the city, and
shall assist with such other duties ordinarily undertaken by such an officer,
or which are prescribed for him or her by this subchapter or by the laws of the
state.
   (C)   While attending such duties, he or she shall, along with foreperson of
streets, parks, and public buildings, have all those powers that a city police
officer might have in respect to enforcing the ordinances of the city or laws
of the state.
   (D)   He or she will have the general supervision, and it shall be his or
her duty to provide the necessary care and supervision to keep the streets in
good, travelable condition, and to supervise and see that the electric
distribution system, water system, and sewer system are in a good state of
repair and working condition, and shall have such other duties ordinarily
undertaken by such an officer, or which are prescribed for him or her by this
subchapter or by the laws of the state.
   (E)   While attending such duties, he or she shall have all those powers
that a city police officer might have in respect to enforcing the city or the
laws of the state. His or her salary shall be paid mostly as determined by City
Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-14
§ 31.06 OTHER APPOINTIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The governing body shall, by resolution, appoint such city officers or
employees as may be necessary, and at such salary or wage as may be deemed
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
Cross-reference:
   Finance Officer; duties, see §
50.03
§ 31.07 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   The city may appropriate funds to pay the necessary expenses of its officers
or employees in conducting such business or attending such meetings as the
governing body shall determine necessary to carry out its authorized municipal
activities.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-2, 9-12-3
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Health
   
32.01   Establishment and authority
   
32.02   Expenses
   
32.03   Regulations and duties
   
32.04   Duty of public to notify others of disease
   
32.05   Interference with the Board of Health
   
32.06   Quarantine; violations
Volunteer Fire Department Administration
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Fire protection district
   
32.22   Officers; appointment and terms
   
32.23   Hazards and compensation
   
32.24   Fire Chief; duties
   
32.25   Assistant Fire Chief; duties
   
32.26   Secretary Treasurer; duties
   
32.27   Finance Officer; duties
   
32.28   Meetings
Volunteer Fire Department Regulations
   
32.40   Powers and rule enforcement
   
32.41   Obstructing firefighters on duty
   
32.42   Fire hazard program
   
32.43   Care of equipment and property
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, City Finance Officer, and a reputable physician to be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council, shall constitute the
Board of Health of the city; the Mayor shall be the President, the City Finance
Officer shall be the Clerk, and the physician, so appointed, shall be the
Superintendent of the city’s Board of Health.
      (2)   The President and Clerk of the Board of Health shall serve without
additional compensation, and the Superintendent shall receive, for his or her
services, the usual charge of like services performed by the Superintendent of
the county’s Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
   (B)   The city’s Board of Health shall have power to establish such sanitary
regulations as will, in its judgment, prevent the spread of disease, to
establish pest houses or temporary hospitals, and to provide for the removal of
persons afflicted with contagious or infectious diseases to such pest houses or
temporary hospitals.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-2
§ 32.02 EXPENSES.
   All lawful and necessary expenses under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be a charge against the General Fund of the city and shall be audited and
paid as other bills.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
§ 32.03 REGULATIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city’s Board of Health to keep a record to
be known as Board of Health regulations, and it shall be the duty of the Clerk
of the Board to record in said book all sanitary regulations of a permanent
character.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
   (B)   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the city’s Board of Health,
or any member thereof, from report or otherwise, that any person is afflicted
with any contagious or infectious disease at any of the places mentioned in §
32.04(A) below, or elsewhere within the city, it shall be the duty of said
Board of Health to ascertain whether such person so afflicted can, with safety,
be removed to the pest house or temporary hospital, and if, in the judgment of
said Board of Health, it shall not be deemed proper to remove such person, it
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of said Board of Health to post an
appropriate sign or notice at the entrance of the room or house in which such
patient shall be.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32, § 9-32-2
§ 32.04 DUTY OF PUBLIC TO NOTIFY OTHERS OF DISEASE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every physician, hotel keeper, keeper of any
boarding or rooming house, restaurant, or public resort within the city to
report to the Superintendent of the city’s Board of Health each and every case
of contagious or infectious diseases coming to his, her, or their knowledge or
attention.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the head of any family in the city, whenever
it shall come to his or her notice, that when any member of his or her family,
or any person lodging within his or her dwelling, is afflicted with any
contagious or infectious disease, to immediately procure and post an
appropriate sign or notice of such fact.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
§ 32.05 INTERFERENCE WITH THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the city’s Board
of Health, or any member thereof, or any person acting under its direction
while in the discharge of any duties devolving upon it under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful or any person to remove any sign or notice
provided for herein, except upon the order or under the direction of the
Superintendent of the city’s Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
§ 32.06 QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the city’s Board of
Health to impose quarantine regulations whenever the same are authorized or
justified under the rules and regulations of the state’s Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
   (B)   Any person having been quarantined by the Board of Health who has
violated the quarantine by showing himself or herself in public, upon the
streets, or other public places, or has violated such quarantine by leaving the
place wherein he or she was directed to keep himself or herself by the Board of
Health shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Volunteer Fire Department for the city,
to be composed of not less than 15 members, including officers.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
   (B)   Said Fire Department shall have power to formulate and adopt bylaws
for its government, not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter and
§§
32.40 through
32.43, and may amend the same, or add to the same, at will under such rules and
procedures, as it shall in such bylaws provide.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 3-6-17, Chapter 9-33, 9-33-13, 10-44-15,
Chapter 34-31
§ 32.21 FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   The County Commissioners are hereby authorized to include the city in a
county fire protection district.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 34-31
§ 32.22 OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The officers of the said Fire Department shall be the Chief,
Assistant, Chief Second Assistant, and Secretary Finance Officer, who shall be
elected or appointed, as hereinafter provided, on the fourth Monday in December
of each year, and shall assume office at such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
   (B)   A vacancy in any elective office shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term at a special election of the Department called for that
purpose by the Chief or Assistant Chief, notice of which special election shall
be given in the same manner as notices of other meetings of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
   (C)   The City Council may, at any time that it shall deem it for the best
interests of the city, by a majority vote, remove any elected officer of the
Department, but any such removal vote shall be taken only after a hearing
before the City Council upon written charges signed by at least ten legal
freeholder voters of the city, at which the accused shall have the right to
appear and show cause why he or she should not be removed, and any such hearing
may be adjourned or continued from day to day until its decision is made
without need of any further notice to anyone.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
   (D)   (1)   Said charges must specify the exact cause for which the removal
is sought and shall be filed with the City Finance Officer, whose duty it shall
be to present the same to the City Council at its next regular meeting after
the same is filed, at which time the City Council shall fix a time and place of
said hearing.
      (2)   A copy of the charges and a notice of the time and place of said
hearing shall be provided by the City Finance Officer and personally served
upon the officer against whom the charges are made, not less than three days,
nor more than 12 days, before the day set for said hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
   (E)   A majority of the members of the Department shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of the business at all annual and special meetings. The
officers of the Department shall be elected by ballot. A majority vote only of
those present shall be necessary to accomplish an election.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11)
   (F)   The City Council may, at will, increase or decrease the membership of
the Department by resolution. The secretary of the Department shall file a list
of the members with the City Finance Officer, and in the event of changes in
the membership of the Department, a corrected list of members shall be filed
with the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-14)
   (G)   No person shall be a member of the Department who shall not have
attained the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.23 HAZARDS AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members of the Department shall receive no compensation from the
city for services rendered, except such as the city may voluntarily provide for
paying.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-17)
   (B)   Each member, by joining the Department, voluntarily assumes the
hazards of injury or accident in the service with no liability therefor on the
part of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.24 FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to exercise, supervise,
and command over the Fire Department. He or she shall have general charge of
the property of the city used by the Fire Department and shall see that the
same is kept in repair and ready for use. He or she shall order such repairs
for the equipment and apparatus as may be necessary, and shall not incur any
expense without the consent of the City Council entered upon its minutes.
      (2)   He or she shall attend all fires, when available, which may occur
in the city, and all orders given by him or her, or officers in his or her
command, at any fire to any member of the Fire Department shall be promptly
obeyed. He or she shall also see that the provisions of this section are
strictly enforced.
      (3)   The Fire Chief shall make annual reports to the City Council in the
months of January and July, in which he or she shall give an inventory of the
property of the city used and devoted to the Fire Department, the condition of
the same, and shall recommend such alterations, changes, or additions, as he or
she may think best. He or she shall certify all bills presented to the City
Council for expenses on his or her order.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7)
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief shall, in all cases of fire, have charge of all
the members of the Fire Department and of all persons present at the fire, and
shall take the proper means of extinguishing the fire protecting the property
endangered as a result of fire.
      (2)   It shall also be the Fire Chief’s duty to help secure the
observance of all city ordinances and regulations respecting fires.
      (3)   After the fire trucks have been withdrawn from the fire, he or she
shall see that all precautions reasonably necessary to keep the fire from
flaring up again are taken.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8)
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall, at all times, be subject to the control and
direction of the City Council in matters pertaining to the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9)
Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.25 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   The Assistant Fire Chief shall, in the absence of the Fire Chief, or his or
her inability to act, assume the duties of the Fire Chief and to be acting
board member of the county’s Fire Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.26 SECRETARY TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary Treasurer to keep an accurate
record and minutes of all transactions of the Fire Department.
   (B)   He or she shall keep in a book, known as the Book of Membership, a
list of all the members of the Fire Department, showing their names, date of
birth, and date they became members.
   (C)   He or she shall attend all regular and special meetings of the Fire
Department and shall be its Clerical Officer, paying all bills approved at
regular Fire Department monthly meetings.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.27 FINANCE OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer of the Fire
Department to receive and safely keep all the moneys of the Fire Department.
      (2)   He or she shall, at each annual meeting, present to the Fire
Department an itemized statement of all receipts and expenditures to be
approved by the Fire Department, and such approvals shall be noted in
appropriate language upon said reports.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-16)
   (B)   There shall be paid to the Finance Officer of the Fire Department
annually, upon receipt of same, the premium tax received from the state’s
Finance Officer on insurance premiums written by non-resident companies and by
companies organized in the state, as provided by state law, the said premium
tax to be used for maintenance and repairs of the hose, apparatus, and the
like, and for such other expenses as may be determined by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33, § 9-33-11
§ 32.28 MEETINGS.
   In addition to the annual meetings, the Fire Department shall hold such
regular monthly meetings on the fourth Monday of the month, and special
meetings for the transaction of business as it may deem necessary, and as may
be provided for in its bylaws. It shall be in entire control of its own
membership and may remove or discharge any member, except such officers as are
herein provided for under such conditions and for such cause, and by such
procedure as it may provide in its bylaws, and shall have power to fix
membership fees and fines, and provide for the collection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS
§ 32.40 POWERS AND RULE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All rules and regulations concerning the Fire Department, when adopted
by the City Council, shall have the same force and effect as ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-26)
   (B)   The Fire Chief or officers shall, at and during the time of all fires,
have the powers of the Chief of Police, and any person who shall resist any
such officer in the lawful discharge of his or her duty at such time shall be
subject to like penalty as for resisting a peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-27)
Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.41 OBSTRUCTING FIREFIGHTERS ON DUTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully offer any hindrance to any
officer or firefighter in the performance of his of her duty at a fire, or
injure willfully any fire engine or firefighting apparatus while going to or at
a fire, or to remove any part of said apparatus, or shall give any false
alarms, or shall willingly drive any vehicle over any hose or other fire
equipment command of the Fire Chief relating to the fighting of any fire.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-25) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33, § 22-11-6
§ 32.42 FIRE HAZARD PROGRAM.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, along with the City Council,
and the other Fire Department members, to promote a yearly program to eliminate
any fire hazards within the city, and the Fire Chief himself or herself may
notify the owner or occupant of any building which he or she deems unsafe and a
fire hazard of such condition, and order him or her to repair the same or
remove it from the city within one week from the time of receiving the notice.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant shall refuse to comply with said notice, then
the Fire Chief shall report the same to the City Council, and if the said order
be approved by the City Council, he or she shall proceed to carry out the same
to be done, and the expense thereof shall be paid by the person or persons so
failing to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 32.43 CARE OF EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all members of the City Fire Department to
keep the Fire Department equipment in a serviceable, clean condition and to go
with due haste to all fires, and remain there until dismissed by order of the
Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-13)
   (B)   No fire apparatus of the city shall betaken out of the city limits,
except with approval from any officer and shall be manned by Fire Department
members only. None of the equipment of the Fire Department shall be applied to
private use.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-19)
   (C)   Any person who shall willfully, maliciously, or negligently break,
deface, destroy, or in any manner injure any fire apparatus belonging to the
city, or who shall, in any way, injure or interfere with any of the public
hydrants of the city or any structure used by the Fire Department, or who
shall, in any manner, obstruct or encumber any public hydrant of the city,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-21)
   (D)   Any person who shall take, use, or carry away for private use or
otherwise any of the apparatus, appliances or equipment under the control of
the city’s Fire Department without the consent of the Fire Chief shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-22)
Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33, § 22-11-6
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
32.43(C) and/or (D) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, Chapter 9-33, 22-11-6
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Bonds; premium payments
   
33.02   New development funding
Municipal Sales, Service, and Use Tax
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Effective date and enactment
   
33.17   Use tax
   
33.18   Collection
   
33.19   Interpretation
Special Tax Classifications
   
33.30   Purpose
   
33.31   Taxable values
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 BONDS; PREMIUM PAYMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to pay the premium on all bonds required to
be furnished by the city’s officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 3-5-5, Chapter 9-25, Chapter 9-26
§ 33.02 NEW DEVELOPMENT FUNDING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a development is defined as an area
that does not currently have any infrastructure on it (water, sewer,
electrical, and streets).
   (B)   Different types of dwellings and properties may present unique
challenges and have varying lengths of payback of investments. With the
expectation that the payback on city funding for new developments on properties
located in the city limits be 15 years or less, the city would be willing to
fund up to 33% of water, electrical, sewer (if applicable), and street
improvements, providing there are no covenants as to what type of housing
structure could be built and by whom. The developer and homeowner would be
required to fund the rest.
   (C)   (1)   On developments with covenants as to who and what type of
structure can be built being controlled solely by the land owner/developer, the
city portion of the funding would be reduced to 10%. If there is no prospective
homeowner involved in the development, the amount not funded by the city would
fall solely on the developer.
      (2)   In both of scenarios described above, if the property does not have
a housing structure built on it within three years, the developer/homeowner
would be responsible for reimbursing the city for those funds contributed.
(Ord. 16-10-44, passed 11-13-2018)
MUNICIPAL SALES, SERVICE, AND USE TAX
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to the power
granted to the municipality by the state, by SDCL Chapter 10-52 , titled
Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 33.16 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT.
   From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business with the jurisdiction of the city who are subject to the state’s
retail occupational sales and service tax, SDCL Chapter 10-45 , and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.17 USE TAX.
   There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use, storage, and
consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of tangible personal
property or services purchased from and after January 1, 2006, at the same rate
as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use, storage,
and consumption, which are subject to the state’s use tax act, SDCL Chapter 10-
46 , and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.18 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Chapter 10-52 ,
and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the state’s Department
of Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax, and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.19 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the state’s retail occupational sales and service act, SDCL
Chapter 10-45 , and acts amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a
similar tax, except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
SPECIAL TAX CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 33.30 PURPOSE.
   The city will work closely with any organization seeking to establish
industry within city limits. The city will aid any such person or organization
in any way possible to help accomplish that person’s or organization’s
objectives. This subchapter is favorable, by granting a special tax
classification, to all new industrial or commercial structures, or structure
additions which have an assessed value of $30,000 or more. In order for the
classification to take effect, such structures must be located within three
miles of the city’s corporate limits, or within city limits itself.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-2, Chapter 9-21, 10-12-32, 10-12-33
§ 33.31 TAXABLE VALUES.
   (A)   The following formulas for taxable values are:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent or less of the total property value for the
first year following construction on such property;
      (2)   For the second year following construction, not more than 50% of
the usual taxable value shall be used for tax purposes on such property; and
      (3)   For the third, fourth, and fifth years following construction, not
more than 75% of the usual taxable value shall be used for tax purposes on such
property.
   (B)   These amounts are subject to change based on specific city contracts,
or changes made by the City Council within prior specific notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-2, Chapter 10-6, 10-6-101, 10-6-119,
10-9-7
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
33.15 through
33.19, and the rules and regulations relating the ascertainment and collection
of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200, or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-45, and acts amendatory
thereto, are hereby authorized for the collection of the excise taxes described
in §§
33.15 through
33.19 by the Department of Revenue and Regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES MANAGEMENT AND OPERATION
      
51.   ELECTRIC
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES MANAGEMENT AND OPERATION
Section
Administration
   
50.01   Superintendent of Public Utilities; creation of office
   
50.02   Superintendent of Public Utilities; duties
   
50.03   Finance Officer; duties
Billing and Payment
   
50.15   Consumer bills
   
50.16   Payment of utility services
   
50.17   Delinquent bills
   
50.18   Collection of delinquent accounts
   
50.19   Special consideration for payment; disconnection
   
50.20   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.21   Non-sufficient check/ACH
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES; CREATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   The city-owned public utilities are its water, sewer, and
electric distribution systems. Subject to the supervision of the City Council,
the city-owned public utilities shall be operated by a city employee to be
known as the Superintendent of Public Utilities, to be employed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council at its first meeting in May of each
year.
      (2)   No person shall be eligible to be employed as Superintendent of
Public Utilities who is not a qualified electrician. The salary of such
Superintendent of Public Utilities shall be paid monthly, and shall be such sum
as shall be, from time to time, fixed by the City Council.
      (3)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall employ such
assistant or assistants as may be necessary for the regular dispatch of the
work and business of the Department. Such assistant or assistants shall be
under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-1)
   (B)   For purposes of convenience, the city may employ one person to hold
any of the following offices, at any given time: City Finance Officer;
Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-14-3, 9-35-1, 18-3-1
§ 50.02 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES; DUTIES.
   The duties of the Superintendent of Public Utilities shall be as follows.
   (A)   He or she shall be responsible for the maintenance and operation of
the municipal light plant, electrical transmission systems, and municipal water
plant and its distribution system.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to keep the said Public Utilities in a
good state of repair to the end that service to consumers may be interrupted as
little as possible.
   (C)   He or she, or any other authorized city employee, shall read water and
electrical meters monthly, on the first day of each month, or as may be
conveniently done.
   (D)   He or she, or any other authorized city employee, shall collect all
bills against consumers for electric current and water, together with bill for
merchandise, repairs, and labor performed for consumers.
   (E)   He or she shall keep, or cause to be kept, monthly log sheets, on
forms to be provided for that purpose on which shall be shown daily and hourly
meter readings and such other facts as may be required to complete such forms.
   (F)   (1)   He or she shall keep a ledger account of all bills payable and
chargeable to either of the cities’ public utilities; he or she shall keep a
record of all outstanding service deposit certificates.
      (2)   The forms of all such records and books of account to be kept by
the Superintendent of Public Utilities shall be prepared by the City Finance
Officer and approved by the City Council.
   (G)   (1)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall make annual reports
immediately after December 31 of each year showing a complete invoice of all
materials, tools, fuel, lubricants, and all articles and materials of every
kind and nature owned by the city. Such reports shall be in two parts; one
covering the electric light plant and its distribution system, and the other
covering the municipal water plant and its distribution system.
      (2)   Such reports shall be made in duplicate; the original to be kept on
file by the Superintendent, and the duplicate to be filed with the City Finance
Officer, and by him or her submitted to the City Council at the next regular
meeting following the filing of such report.
   (H)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall also, as a part of the
report provided for in division (G) above, show the following facts:
      (1)   Total receipts and disbursements for preceding semi-annual periods;
      (2)   The condition of the property of each utility;
      (3)   Its requirements for proper maintenance;
      (4)   As to the water utility, the number of gallons of water pumped for
preceding semi-annual period, and number of gallons of water sold for such
period; and
      (5)   As to electric utility, the number of kilowatts of electrical
energy produced and number sold.
   (I)   After the Superintendent of Public Utilities, or any authorized city
employee, shall have read the light and water meters, he or she shall deliver
the meter readings to the City Finance Officer, who shall compute and prepare
consumer’s bills, which shall be mailed to the consumer, and a record to be
retained in the Finance Office.
   (J)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities and his or her assistant or
assistants shall be subject to removal and discharge at any time for cause by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
§ 50.03 FINANCE OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Finance Officer shall prepare a report monthly, showing the
amount of each consumer’s bill, the date of payment, account number, name of
consumer, and the amounts due from each consumer separately for light, power,
gas, water, and merchandise, and he or she shall immediately, after the
preparation thereof, retain a copy in his or her own files.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall also keep a record, on a pad prepared for
the purpose of, the consumer’s bills for merchandise, labor, and the like.
   (C)   Such charges to be made in duplicate; the City Finance Officer shall
mail the original of said bills to the consumers with his or her other bills,
and retain the other copy in his or her files.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 50.15 CONSUMER BILLS.
   (A)   All consumers’ bills for electric current, water, labor, and material
shall be due on the last day of the month following the month where such
electricity, water, labor, or materials was furnished, and the same shall
become delinquent after the last day of the month in which the same becomes
due.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Utilities to shut
off the water and disconnect the service wires of any and all consumers of
electric current or water from the city’s distribution systems on the second
Wednesday of the month that the same becomes delinquent pursuant to policies
adopted by City Council. No consideration shall be given to any consumers
relative to the extending of time of payment of such bills, except the same be
granted by the City Council for cause at any regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-35-1
§ 50.16 PAYMENT OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   The city utility shall fairly, and without discrimination, administer the
utility policies for payment of utility services according to the following
guidelines:
   (A)   Utility bill for electric service, water, sewer, labor, and material
are due upon receipt of invoice;
   (B)   Invoices for service are past due after the last day of the month in
which the invoice is received. A late payment finance fee, as set forth by
resolution of the City Council, shall then be assessed;
   (C)   All utility bills not paid by the 1st day of the month shall be
considered delinquent and subject to §
50.18 below; and
   (D)   Should the tenant vacate the premises without paying the utility bill
in full, the landlord or primary owner of the premises shall be liable to the
city for all charges on the account.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.17 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)    The customer utility bill is due on the last day of each month. If
payment is not received by the last day of the mouth, a notice will then be
sent to the customer with the delinquent amount, plus interest, due, along with
a statement of when the utilities will be disconnected if payment is not
received. The disconnection will be done on the twelfth of each month at 2:00
p.m. If a disconnection is set to take place on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or
holiday, the disconnection shall take place the next business day.
   (B)   A notice will be placed on the front door of the residence scheduled
for disconnection on the tenth of each month at 2:00 p.m., before the
disconnection will occur. The notice will describe the procedure for payment or
disconnection. If the tenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the notice
of disconnection will be delivered on the next business day.
   (C)   A reconnection fee of $100, plus the total amount of the utility bill,
must be paid in full before the utilities will be reconnected. Reconnection
will be made by city personnel within two working days after payment is made in
full.
   (D)   Hardship cases and exemptions will only be granted when the customer
meets with the City Council at a regular or special scheduled meeting and
explains to the City Council the need for the extension.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-4.1) (Ord. passed 4-8-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
§ 50.18 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)    The city utility shall fairly, and without discrimination, administer
the utility policies for collection of delinquent accounts according to the
following guidelines.
      (1)   All delinquent accounts must be paid in full before a customer is
reconnected at a new location. This policy shall apply to all customers, both
residential and commercial.
      (2)   Full payment of all the outstanding utility bills and associated
fees must be made to maintain or reconnect existing service.
      (3)   When an account is considered delinquent, a courtesy notice will be
sent to the customer on the first day of the month.
      (4)   If payment has not been received by the tenth of the month by 2:00
p.m., a notice of disconnection of service shall be prepared and hand-delivered
by city personnel. The notice shall be on bright red/orange paper and attached
to the front door of the residence if the customer is not at the residence or
property. If the tenth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the notice of
disconnection will be delivered on the next business day.
      (5)   Disconnection of service shall occur at 2:00 p.m. on the twelfth of
the month. If a disconnection is set to take place on a Friday, Saturday,
Sunday or holiday, the disconnection shall take place the next business day.
      (6)   Upon the notice of disconnection of service leaving the Finance
Office, an additional fee, as set by resolution of the City Council, shall be
applied to the delinquent account.
      (7)   The disconnection notice of service shall include the delinquent
amount, finance fee, and the additional fee, and must be paid before 2:00 p.m.
to avoid disconnection of service. If the service meter is disconnected, the
delinquent amount and accompanying fees, plus the current utility amount and a
reconnection fee, as set forth by resolution of the City Council, must be paid
before any service is restored.
      (8)   No consideration shall be given to any customers relative to
extending the time of payment of such utility bills after the notice of
disconnection of service has been delivered, except granted by the City Council
for cause at any regular or special meeting.
   (B)   (1)   After the account has been disconnected for at least five
business days with no payment received, the account will be closed out.
      (2)   The final amount for the account will include the original charge,
plus the associated fees, and the most recent meter reading charge and
reconnection fee, minus the service deposit.
      (3)   The amount due will then be taken to small claims court for
collection. According to §§
51.19(B),
52.01(C), and
53.035(A), the owner of the property is responsible for payment of the utility
bill before any service is restored.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-8.1) (Ord. passed 4-8-2024)
§ 50.19 SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR PAYMENT; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   On a case-by-case basis, and prior to the utility disconnection of the
utility customer, the City Council may make arrangements for an alternative
payment option for the utility customer.
   (B)   Failure by the utility customer to make payments within the terms of
the arrangement will result in an immediate disconnection of service of
utilities, forfeiture of the deposit, and a reconnection fee without any
further notice.
   (C)   Utility service shall continue for a single 30-day period upon receipt
and approval by the City Council of a physician’s certificate, or notice from a
public health or social service official that disconnection of utility service
would aggravate an existing medical emergency or other exigent circumstances of
the customer, or another permanent resident in the customer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-9)
§ 50.20 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Any customer who seeks to have his, her, or their utilities
voluntarily disconnected of utility service may do so upon written request.
   (B)   Utilities that have been voluntarily disconnected by the primary
owners of the premises will be subject to a reconnection fee in the amount as
set by resolution by the City Council. The reconnection fee will be assessed to
the electric and water utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-10)
   (C)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on, or before, the date set forth on
the bill; and
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by, or before, that date, a second bill
will be mailed, containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have a
right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person and by
counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may present, orally or
in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (D)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (E)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.21 NON-SUFFICIENT CHECK/ACH.
   How a non-sufficient check/ACH (NSF) is handled following the receipt of an
NSF check or ACH payment is outlined below:
   (A)   First offense: No checks/ACH payments will be accepted until all fees
are collected.
   (B)   Second offense: No checks/ACH payments will be accepted for a period
of six months.
   (C)   Third offense:
      (1)   No checks/ACH payments will be accepted for a period of 24 months.
      (2)   Payment arrangements following a third offense will be at the
discretion of the Finance Office with input from the City Council.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2024)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Meters
   
51.02   Extending the electric system
   
51.03   Wiring and installation
   
51.04   Demand response program
Users and Fees
   
51.15   Trees obstructing utilities
   
51.16   Unauthorized disconnection and reconnection
   
51.17   Intentional damage
   
51.18   Rate
   
51.19   Owner and tenants
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 METERS.
   (A)   All meters for the measuring of electric current connected with the
city’s electric distribution system shall be owned by the city and shall be
installed by the city at its own expense, at, in, or upon the consumer’s
premises in such a way and such a place as will make the same easily accessible
to be read, and as will not interfere in any way with the consumer’s use and
enjoyment of his or her property.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-3)
   (B)   The city and the electric companies who are involved by their duly
authorized officers and agents shall have the right to go upon and within the
premises of any consumer for the purpose of inspecting the wiring, meters, or
any consumer appliance or equipment used in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-39
§ 51.02 EXTENDING THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM.
   Any person or business that is wanting to extend the city’s electrical
system must adhere to the following guidelines.
   (A)   The city will pay 100% of all costs associated with extending the
electrical system overhead from the existing electrical pole to the meter of
the home or business.
   (B)   If the home owner or business owner wants the electrical system
extended from existing pole to the meter by going underground, the home owner
or business owner will pay the difference between the cost of extending the
electrical system overhead versus going underground from existing pole to the
meter.
   (C)   The cost of extending the electrical system from the meter to the home
or business will be 100% the responsibility of the home owner or business
owner.
(Ord. 15-2-11.10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 51.03 WIRING AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All new wiring shall conform to the provisions of the National
Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-5)
   (B)   Whenever the City Council, or any agent designated by it, has reason
to believe that the wiring or electrical installation in or about any building
is unsafe or defective, he, she, or it shall make an inspection thereof; and if
the same is found to be unsafe, defective, or improperly installed, he, she, or
it shall condemn the same and immediately notify the owner, or person in charge
of such wiring or installation, to correct any defect therein within ten days
thereafter. Unless such defects are corrected within the time specified, it
shall be the duty of the City Council, or its agent as aforesaid, to turn the
current off to said building or buildings, and not to again furnish current
therefor until the proper certificate of inspection and approval by the said
City Council, or its agent, has been furnished.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-9)
Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3, Chapter 9-39
§ 51.04 DEMAND RESPONSE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Aggregation of retail customer demand response.
      (1)   The city, or its authorized designee, is the sole entity permitted
to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the city
directly into any commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized electric markets.
      (2)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized electric markets may do so by
participating in the program established by the city or its authorized
designee.
      (3)   Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
   (B)   Ancillary services provided by demand response resources.
      (1)   The city, or its authorized designee, is the sole entity permitted
to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by city directly
into any commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services.
      (2)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services may do so by participating
in the program established by the city, or its authorized designee.
      (3)   Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
(Ord. 15-2-15, passed 6-1-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
USERS AND FEES
§ 51.15 TREES OBSTRUCTING UTILITIES.
   No trees shall be allowed to obstruct or interfere with any utility. If it
interferes with any utility, the owner shall be given ten days’ notice to
remove the obstruction or interference. If the obstruction is not removed or
eliminated within the ten-day period, the city may correct the problem.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-10) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 51.16 UNAUTHORIZED DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION.
   Any consumer of electric current connected to the city’s distribution system
who shall willfully, by a device known as a jumper, or any other device or
artifice, prevent the current so used by him or her from passing through his or
her meter or meters, and thereby deprives the city of its proper income for
non-payment of bills, shall reconnect, or cause to be reconnected, his or her
service connection without having paid all delinquencies, together with the
fees herein provided for disconnecting or reconnecting his or her services, and
without authority of the Superintendent of Public Utilities, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3, Chapter 9-39
§ 51.17 INTENTIONAL DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, in any way, damage any
wire, bulb, globe, post, shade, or other fixture or appliance connected with,
or attached to, the distribution system of the city, and any person so
offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-7) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3, Chapter 9-39
§ 51.18 RATE.
   (A)    The electric rate for residential and commercial use will be set at
the following rates, effective January 1, 2023:
 
                                      June through August  September through
-                   Minimum Cost      (per KWH)            May
                                                           (per KWH)
                                      0 to 5,000 KWH:      0 to 5,000 KWH:
City                $21               0.099                0.093
                                      Over 5,000 KWH:      Over 5,000 KWH:
                                      0.083                0.078
                                      0 to 5,000 KWH:      0 to 5,000 KWH:
Commercial Customer Single-phase: $28 0.099                0.093
                    Three-phase: $36  Over 5,000 KWH:      Over 5,000 KWH:
                                      0.083                0.078
Residential         $16.90            0.103                0 to 800 KWH: 0.092
                                                           Over 800 KWH: 0.082
Street Lights       $21               0.113                0.097
 
   (B)   Rates for security lights will be set using the following formula,
effective January 1, 2023:
      (1)   One hundred watt HPS: $8.50 per month;
      (2)   One hundred seventy-five watt MV: $8.50 per month; and
      (3)   Four hundred watt HPS: $12.25 per month.
(Ord. 15-2-14.2, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 51.18.1, passed 9-12-2022)
§ 51.19 OWNER AND TENANTS.
   (A)   Any person leasing property owned by another desiring to use electric
current from the city’s distribution system must either make the service
deposit, as herein provided for, or secure from the landlord and file with the
City Finance Officer a statement, in writing, to the effect that the landlord’s
service deposit may be used, if necessary, to pay the tenant’s delinquencies
for current, if any.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-2)
   (B)   Owners who rent or lease premises shall be liable to the city for any
and all unpaid electric power usage and minimum bills incurred by any tenant,
and any such delinquent bills shall, after the same have been due and unpaid
for 30 days, be billed to the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 15-2-11.1, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All meters shall be sealed by the Superintendent, and any person other
than the Superintendent of Public Utilities who breaks the seal or tampers with
said meter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $100, and, in addition thereto, the city
shall have the right to discontinue the sale of electric current to such
person.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-8)
   (C)   Any person convicted of the misdemeanor described in §
51.16 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100, and, in addition thereto,
the city shall have the right to discontinue the sale of electric current to
such person, and it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Utilities
to disconnect the service wires to the premises of any person.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-6)
   (D)   Any person convicted of the misdemeanor described in §
51.17 may, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3, Chapter 9-39
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Control and funding
   
52.02   Limitations of city liability
   
52.03   Fire hydrants
   
52.04   Meters
   
52.05   Portable meters
   
52.06   Water sales
Connections, Fees, and Payment Procedures
   
52.20   Connections; application
   
52.21   Connections; cost
   
52.22   Payment and meters
   
52.23   Rates
   
52.24   Rental properties; late payments
   
52.25   Owner liable for tenants
Use and Protection of System
   
52.40   Rules and regulations
   
52.41   Watering yards
   
52.42   Running water
   
52.43   Exceptions to tap limits
   
52.44   Violations; water shut-off
Construction and Maintenance of System
   
52.55   Excavations
   
52.56   New construction
   
52.57   Installation
   
52.58   Plat of water mains
   
52.59   Curb stands
   
52.60   House boilers
   
52.61   Maintenance of service pipes
   
52.62   Plumbers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CONTROL AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The water works system shall be under the control of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-1)
   (B)   The account known as Waterworks Fund, kept by the City Finance
Officer, shall be continued and all money received from the collection of water
rents, taxation for the upkeep of the waterworks system, the sale of property
or material connected with the waterworks, any appropriation made by the City
Council for the purpose of construction or extension of waterworks, or any
source whatever connected with the management and operation of the waterworks
system shall be placed in said fund; and all salaries and disbursements
connected with the management and operation of the waterworks systems shall be
paid from this fund.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-2)
   (C)   The city does not guarantee a constant supply of water to any
consumer, and shall not be liable for damages for any failure to supply the
same, nor shall it be liable for any claim or damage by reason of the breaking
of any service pipe, stop cock, or other equipment, or if for any reason, the
supply of water shall be shut off to make repairs, connections, extensions, or
for any other purpose that may be found necessary. The right is reserved to cut
off the water supply to any person at any time.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-19, §§ 9-22-6, 9-47-1
§ 52.02 LIMITATIONS OF CITY LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city’s Water Department shall not be responsible for pipes and
fixtures. All owners must, at their own expense, keep the service pipe from the
main and all other apparatus in good working order, and properly protected from
frost and other danger.
   (B)   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of
any of the service pipes or apparatus, or from any damage that may result from
shutting off water for repairing or any other purpose, or for any variation of
pressure. No reduction will be made from regular rates because of leaking pipes
or fixtures.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.03 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants erected for the purpose of extinguishing fire are hereby
declared to be public hydrants, and no person or persons, except members of the
Fire Department, the City Police, or persons expressly authorized by the City
Council, and then only the exercise of authority delegated by the said City
Council, shall open any of said hydrants or attempt to draw water from the
same, or at any time attempt to remove or uncover any protection from, or in
any manner that interferes with, any of the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-4)
   (B)   No person, except an employee of the Water Department or Fire
Department of the city, shall open, take any water from, or in any way
interfere with, injure, break, or deface any fire hydrant belonging to the
Municipal Water Plant of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-5)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person authorized to open hydrants to
delegate his or her authority to another, or let or suffer another person to
take wrenches or tools furnished to him or her, or suffer the same to be taken
from any hose house, except for the purpose strictly connected with the Fire
Department, or as they accompany carts or wagons on occasions of fire.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-47-1, 22-11-6
§ 52.04 METERS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be read on the dates assigned by the City
Council upon passage of a resolution.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-26)
   (B)   In no case shall anyone remove a meter from its setting or interfere
with its reading for any cause without first obtaining permission from the City
Council or Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-23)
   (C)   Every person fairing water supplied through the waterworks system
shall permit the Superintendent of Public Utilities, or any other authorized
person, at all reasonable hours of the day, to enter his or her premises or
building to examine the pipes and fixtures and the manner in which the water is
used or to read meters. He or she must frankly, and without concealing, answer
questions put to him or her concerning and relative to the use of water on such
premises.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-24)
   (D)   All meters shall be cleaned and tested when deemed necessary by the
City Council, and all defective meters shall be repaired by the Superintendent
of Public Utilities, or any other person authorized by the City Council, at the
expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-47-1
§ 52.05 PORTABLE METERS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall provide one or more
portable water meters to be attached to the distribution system at any place
where water is to be taken from it for building purposes or for any special or
temporary use.
   (B)   Any person desiring to take water for any such use shall first obtain
permission from the said Superintendent of Public Utilities in a manner and
form as provided for water users in general, except that in addition thereto,
such special permission shall specify the place from which such water is to be
taken, the quantity to be taken, and the purpose for which the same is to be
used; and if a charge is to be made for such water, the price is to be paid.
   (C)   In the event that a charge is to be made for such water, a portable
meter shall be attached to the tap from which such water is to be taken, and
shall be paid for at the regular meter rate, or at such rate as may be fixed by
the Superintendent, with consent of at least two City Council members.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47
§ 52.06 WATER SALES.
   No water shall be sold or distributed unless the same is measured by a
meter, which shall be furnished by the water user and kept in repair by the
city.
   (A)   The standard connection with the water main shall be copper pipes from
main to curb stand. All other pipes must be capable of standing a pressure of
150 pounds.
   (B)   All excavations pertaining to water lines in any of the streets of the
city shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
   (C)   All owners must, at their own expense, keep the surface pipe to the
curb stop in good working order and properly protected from frost and other
danger.
   (D)   If two or more premises with separate owners are supplied from the
same service pipe, a minimum fee to each consumer must be paid in addition to
the metered water provided to consumers.
   (E)   Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall be
required to give notice thereof to the Water Department, and regular rates
shall be continued until such notice is given. Owners must give notice of
change of tenants.
   (F)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities, or other officer or employee
of the city, shall be permitted, at reasonable hours, to enter the premises or
buildings of consumers for the purpose of reading meters and to examine water
pipes, fixtures, and the manner in which water is used; and said officers or
employees reserve the right to set or remove a meter or change its location,
whenever it is deemed advisable to do so.
   (G)   In cases where water meters fail to register the amount of water
passing through them by being stopped, or from any other cause, the quantity
used shall be determined and the charge made based upon the average amount used
during two or more preceding periods of similar length.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-1, 9-47-1
CONNECTIONS, FEES, AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES
§ 52.20 CONNECTIONS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for water service shall be made by the owner or
agent of the property to the City Council or Superintendent of Public
Utilities, stating the lot and block where such water is desired. If such
application is granted by the City Council or Superintendent of Public
Utilities, the applicant shall be granted a permit authorizing the connection
to be made.
      (2)   The fee for making the tap, including the curb stop, shall be $75
within city limits, and $125 outside the city limits, payable at the time of
making said application.
      (3)   All expenses in connection with the running of the water line from
the main to the consumer’s property shall be at the consumer’s expense. (See §
52.56.)
(Prior Code, § 15-3-10)
   (B)   A record of the deposit specified in §§
33.30 and
33.31 shall be kept by the Superintendent of Public Utilities, and a receipt
shall be issued for said deposit in triplicate; the original receipt to be
given to the consumer, and one copy thereof to be filed with the City Finance
Officer, after which such water connection shall be made and service furnished
to said applicant.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.21 CONNECTIONS; COST.
   (A)   All extensions of the municipal water system and of the municipal
sanitary sewer shall be made in accordance with applicable state law, and the
cost thereof shall be assessed as provided by law and as set by City Council
resolution against the property benefitted by such extension.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-15)
   (B)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation or repair and
connection of the water line shall be borne by the owner, and the owner shall
indemnify the municipality for any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of the water line.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-36)
§ 52.22 PAYMENT AND METERS.
   (A)   The minimum charges for water rates and/or meter deposits are to be
determined by a City Council resolution, which shall also describe the methods
by which such payments shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-31)
   (B)   The City Finance Officer shall keep a correct and accurate record of
all meter readings with each customer, and all payments and accounts for water
used, or other supplies or labor furnished by the city, and shall collect the
same when due.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-33)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-47, § 9-47-1
§ 52.23 RATES.
   (A)   All water bills shall be governed under the same provisions provided
in this code of ordinances, and, all water meters shall be read at the same
time, as provided in §§
33.15 through
33.19.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-35)
   (B)    (1)   In addition to the water charges, the city hereby establishes a
debt surcharge of $5, payable by each customer of its system who receives, or
benefits from, the municipal water system.
      (2)   The collection of the surcharge became effective and began
accumulating on August 1, 2021, with the first payment of the surcharge being
made by each account holder on his, her, or their August 2021 statement due on,
or before, September 30, 2021.
      (3)   The surcharge shall remain in effect until the drinking water SRF
loan executed by the city, as authorized by Resolution 2-2020, is paid in full.
The surcharge shall be collected at the same time as other charges of the
system, and the city will establish a surcharge account to segregate the income
from other system income for bookkeeping purposes, to be pledged to the
drinking water SRF loan.
      (4)   The water rates for users in city limits will be set at $5 per
1,000 gallons of water and minimum will increase to $20 per month. Water rates
for water users outside city limits is set at $5 per 1,000 gallons of water and
minimums increase to $40 per month.
(Ord. 15-3-37.7, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. 15-3-37.7A, passed 7-12-2021; Ord.
passed 3-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.24 RENTAL PROPERTIES; LATE PAYMENTS.
   Owners who rent or lease premises shall be responsible for having accessible
curb stops per city specifications. Owners of such rental properties shall be
ultimately liable to the city for any unpaid water
bills of the owner’s tenant, and if such bill remains due and unpaid after 30
days, said delinquent amount owing the city shall then be billed to the owner
of the premises in question.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47
§ 52.25 OWNER LIABLE FOR TENANTS.
   Owners who rent or lease premises shall be liable to the city for any and
all unpaid water usage, and minimum bills incurred by any tenant and any such
delinquent bills shall, after the same have been due and unpaid for 30 days, be
billed to the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 15-3-36.1, passed 5-17-2010)
USE AND PROTECTION OF SYSTEM
§ 52.40 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The sections, rules, and regulations hereinafter set out in this
chapter shall be considered a part of the contract with every person which is
supplied with water through the waterworks system, and every person by taking
water shall be considered to express his or her assent to be bound thereby.
When any of the same are violated, or such others as the City Council may
adopt, the water shall be cut off from the building or place of such violation
and shall not be turned on, except by order of the City Finance Officer, and
then only after the payment of $50 for shutting off and turning on the water,
and such other items as the City Council shall determine. In case of such
violations, the City Council, or committee thereof, shall determine, and in
case of such violation, the City Council, or committee thereof, shall have the
right to declare forfeited any payment made for water by the person committing
such violation.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-9)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to break, injure, mar, deface, interfere with, or
disturb any building, machine, apparatus, fixtures, attachments, or
appurtenances of the waterworks, or any hydrant, stop cock box, meter, water
supply or service pipe, or any part thereof, without the permission of the City
Council, excepting cases herein or otherwise provided by ordinance. It shall be
unlawful to or deposit anything in any stop cock box, or control any act
tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above property,
without the permission of the City Council, excepting cases herein or otherwise
provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-7)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-1, 9-47-1
§ 52.41 WATERING YARDS.
   The use of hose for sprinkling yards, gardens, and streets, or for washing
windows and sidewalks, is prohibited in the case of fire, and in case of
threatened shortage of water, may be prohibited altogether by action of the
City Council during such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.42 RUNNING WATER.
   All persons using water shall keep the hydrants, taps, faucets, hoses,
closets, urinals, baths, or other fixtures allotted to their use closed, except
when obtaining water for use, and shall be responsible for any damage or injury
that may result to other persons or property from improper use of water.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.43 EXCEPTIONS TO TAP LIMITS.
   (A)   Not more than one house or premises shall be supplied from one tap or
upon one service pipe, except by written permit issued by the City Council, and
not then, in any case, unless provision is made so that such premises can be
shut off independently of every other house or premises.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-17)
   (B)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, nor suffer them to
take water off the premises, or after water is introduced to any premises shall
any person make any taps, connections, extensions, or attachments beyond the
premises where first installed without first filing a regular application
therefor and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-18)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.44 VIOLATIONS; WATER SHUT-OFF.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions herein contained for the
government of consumers shall, in addition to having the water shut off, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Any plumber or other person who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter, other than those governing consumers,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
§ 52.55 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavations in any street or highway within
six feet of the laid water pipes while the ground is frozen, or to dig up or
uncover so as to expose to frost any of the water pipes or sewers of the city,
except by special permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-47-1
§ 52.56 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction from the property line to the main shall be made by the
consumer under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities, or
other persons especially authorized by the City Council, for which the
applicant shall pay the actual cost of said construction, including labor and
materials. The connection between the property line to the place where the
water is used shall be done by the applicant subject to the inspection and
approval of the Superintendent of Public Utilities or other persons
specifically authorized by the City Council before being covered. All pipes
must be laid at least six feet underground where ever possible. (See §
52.20(A).)
(Prior Code, § 15-3-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-6
§ 52.57 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All service water pipes from the main to the point where the meter is
installed shall meet or exceed all state and/or federal guidelines. Such
connections shall be wiped joints or brass fittings and one- eighth inch larger
than the taps that supply them.
   (B)   There shall be installed a shut-off valve and curb box at a point six
inches inside the line of the sidewalk if such installation is possible;
otherwise, said installation shall be on the curb line.
   (C)   A meter recording the amount of water used and drain cock shall be
installed by the applicant, and placed so that they are accessible for service
by authorized personnel.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.58 PLAT OF WATER MAINS.
   The Water Department shall, at all times, keep and maintain a plat, on which
shall be shown a complete diagram of all the mains of the city, all taps and
service pipes, the size of mains, and such other information as shall be deemed
advisable by said Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-47
§ 52.59 CURB STANDS.
   A curb stand with cut off shall be placed at a uniform location, equidistant
from place of tap, and in a direct line from tap toward the nearest point of
lot lines, and inside of the curb line of the street with the top of the curb
stand even with the grade of the sidewalk for controlling the supply of water
to consumers.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-6
§ 52.60 HOUSE BOILERS.
   All house boilers shall be constructed with a vacuum valve at the top inlet
pipe, and shall be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of the atmosphere
when under a vacuum. The top cocks and other appurtenances must be sufficiently
strong to bear the pressure of rain or water in the mains.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-21)
§ 52.61 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   Maintenance of service water pipes from curb stop to the main shall be
a cooperative effort under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public
Utilities, or other persons especially authorized by the City Council, for
which the city is responsible for repair and materials for repair, which
includes the curb stop.
   (B)   The consumer will be responsible for digging and dirt replacement,
compaction and asphalt or cement surfacing from the curb stop to the main. All
expenses in connection to maintenance of the service pipes from the curb stop
to the place of water use shall be the consumer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-14.1)
§ 52.62 PLUMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except a duly licensed or competent plumber, his or
her employee, or an employee of the Water Department, shall be permitted to do
any work on any pipes or connections with the mains of, or in any way connected
with the water supply of the city.
      (2)   All such plumbers shall be governed by the rules and regulations
that are now in force, or that may hereafter be adopted by the City Council, or
the Water Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-29)
   (B)   No plumbing work of any kind shall be done by any plumber in or upon
any water pipes, fixtures, or apparatus connected with the city water system
without permission first obtained from the Superintendent of Public Utilities
or other officer in charge of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-30)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-47
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Jurisdiction and authority
   
53.003   Use required
   
53.004   Buildings; old and separate systems
Construction of Municipal Sewers
   
53.015   Materials
   
53.016   Size
   
53.017   Elevation and slope
   
53.018   Lift required in certain cases
   
53.019   Trenches and backfill
   
53.020   Joints
   
53.021   Guarding excavations; public safety
   
53.022   State regulations and inspection
Connections and Fees
   
53.035   Connections; permit application
   
53.036   Connections; cost
   
53.037   Rates
   
53.038   Owner liable for tenants
Use and Protection of System
   
53.050   Certain practices prohibited
   
53.051   Commercial runoff
   
53.052   Disruption of flow; garbage
   
53.053   Industrial waste
   
53.054   Storm and sanitary sewers
   
53.055   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
Private Sewers
   
53.070   Permit; inspection
   
53.071   State regulations
   
53.072   Construction
   
53.073   Maintenance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the municipal sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Includes all buildings or structures which are not
residential premises, as herein defined.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
or from handling, storage, and sale of foods or produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage and garbage.
   MUNICIPAL SEWER. A sewer operated by the municipality for the benefit of the
citizens of the municipality generally.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer designed to serve a single user, provided that a
special permit may be granted by the Superintendent of Public Utilities for
such use of such sewer by one or more additional users.
   PROPERLY SHRED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing
of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
freely carried under flow conditions normally prevailing in municipal sewers,
with no particle greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Includes all buildings or structures occupied and used
exclusively as a house by not more than two families.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Water carried wastes from toilets, sinks, baths, household
laundries, tubs, and/or similar facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL PLANT. Any arrangement of devices or structures for treating
sewage in order to eliminate or reduce its odor or other harmful or obnoxious
characteristics.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying storm water, sanitary sewage, or both.
   SEWER OUTLET. Any termination of a sewer system into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body, surface, or ground water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The official charged with the duty of superintending the
municipal sewer system, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM SEWER. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial channel in which a flow of surface
water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-18, § 9-32-9
§ 53.002 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the jurisdiction and
powers of any duly authorized health officer.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-11)
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities, or other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspecting,
observing, measuring, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-37)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.003 USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a municipal sanitary sewer is constructed within 100
feet of the property line of any premises, the Superintendent of Public
Utilities shall notify the owner of any building used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or similar uses on such premises of said fact and
direct him or her to install a sewer to dispose of all sewage and wastes from
the premises and to connect it with the municipal sewer in accordance with the
ordinances, and the owner shall comply with said order within 90 days after
receipt of such notice.
      (2)   If such owner fails to provide for such sewer after notice to do
so, the city may provide for the installation of such sewer and charge the cost
against the property as a special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-2)
   (B)   Whenever a municipal sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewer, a connection shall be made to the municipal sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, or other private sewage
system shall be filled with surface materials.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-9)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-18, § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.004 BUILDINGS; OLD AND SEPARATE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   A separate building sewer shall be provided for every building,
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot, and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer to the
front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered
one building sewer.
      (2)   Under exceptional circumstances, the Superintendent of Public
Utilities may waive the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-22)
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connecting with new buildings when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
CONSTRUCTION OF MUNICIPAL SEWERS
§ 53.015 MATERIALS.
   (A)   A building sewer shall be constructed of caste iron soil pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or equal; vitrified clay sewer pipes, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or equal; or other suitable material approved by the
Superintendent. Joints shall be tight and waterproof.
   (B)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, a building sewer shall be
constructed of caste iron soil pipe, except that non-metallic material may be
accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle approved by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.016 SIZE.
   (A)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent of Public Utilities, and in no event shall the
diameter be less than four inches, and the slope less than one- eighth inch per
running foot.
   (B)   The wye connection (Y-connection) and the building drain shall be
uncovered and the differential elevation determined before construction is
begun. Where practical, the building sewer shall be laid on a uniform grade.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.017 ELEVATION AND SLOPE.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall which might be weakened.
   (B)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid in straight alignment insofar as possible, and
changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.018 LIFT REQUIRED IN CERTAIN CASES.
   Whenever any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
municipal sewer, sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by artificial
means and discharged into the sewer. Any lift stations placed in private
property will be paid for by land owners. Any lift station approved by the City
Council and placed in the city main will be paid for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.019 TRENCHES AND BACKFILL.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless other construction is authorized by the
Superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
ASTM specifications CI2-19.
   (B)   All trenches or backfill are to be tamped and leveled, and wherever
blacktop surfacing is disturbed, said blacktop is to be restored. No backfill
shall be placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.020 JOINTS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight.
Caste iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled
with molten lead, according to federal specifications QQ-1-156, and not less
than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No
paint, varnish, or other coating shall be permitted on jointing material until
the joint has been tested and approved.
   (B)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe and metals shall be made with
approved hot pouring joints. Materials for hot poured joints shall not soften
sufficiently to destroy the efficiency of the joint when subjected to a
temperature of 160ºF, not to be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the
drainage system.
   (C)   The joint shall first be caulked tight with jute or hemp or similar
approved materials. Other joining materials and methods may be used with the
approval of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.021 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS; PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Excavations for building installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a satisfactory manner.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.022 STATE REGULATIONS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for a sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent of
Public Utilities when the building sewer is ready for inspection. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-30)
   (B)   All sewers hereinafter constructed shall comply with the standards set
forth in the National Plumbing Code, which has heretofore been adopted by the
state’s Department of Health, a copy of which said National Plumbing Code shall
be on file in the office of the City Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48, § 36-25-10
CONNECTIONS AND FEES
§ 53.035 CONNECTIONS; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Application for connecting to the main sewer line shall be made
to the City Council or to the Superintendent of Public Utilities. A charge, to
be determined by resolution, shall be made for tapping into the main sewer line
where a wye is not provided. A charge of half the amount shall be made if
connection is made to any existing wye in the main sewer line.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay all
expenses with regard to said connection and running a line to his or her
property, all of which shall be under the direct supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-3)
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with any
opening, use, or alter any municipal sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-19)
   (C)   Any person desiring sewage service from the municipal sewer for
premises not heretofore connected shall apply to the Superintendent of Public
Utilities for a permit. A permit and inspection fee if any shall be in an
amount as determined by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-20)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.036 CONNECTIONS; COST.
   (A)   All extensions of the municipal sewer system and of the municipal
sanitary sewer shall be made in accordance with applicable state law, and the
cost thereof shall be assessed as provided by law and as set by City Council
resolution against the property benefitted by such extension.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-12)
   (B)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation or repair and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner, and the owner
shall indemnify the municipality for any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of any building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.037 RATES.
   (A)   There is hereby established just and equitable rates, charges, and
rentals for treatment and disposal services and benefits, as authorized by the
statutes of the state.
   (B)   Said charges shall, from time to time, be at least sufficient to
produce net revenues adequate to pay the principal of, and interest on, the
bonds payable from revenues of the sewage disposal plant as such principal and
interest become due, and to create and maintain required reserve therefor, and
said rates and charges shall be revised whenever necessary for each purpose.
Said rates, charges, and rentals shall be based on minimum monthly charges.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-38)
   (C)   Effective May 1, 2024, the sewer rate for residential and commercial
use will be set at $41 per month in city limits and $82 per month outside city
limits.
(Ord. 15-4-38.7, passed 3-13-2017; Ord. passed 3-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
§ 53.038 OWNER LIABLE FOR TENANTS.
   Owners who rent or lease premises shall be liable to the city for any and
all unpaid sewage treatment and disposal services incurred by any tenant, and
any such delinquent bills shall, after the same have been due and unpaid for 30
days, be billed to the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-39)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
USE AND PROTECTION OF SYSTEM
§ 53.050 CERTAIN PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the following
described waters or wastes into any municipal sewer:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
   (B)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per 1,000,000
by weight of fat, oil, or grease;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids, or gas;
   (D)   Any garbage, except properly shredded garbage;
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch, manures, or other interferences with the
proper operation of the sewage system;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantities to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to human or animals, or to create any hazard in the waters
of the sewage disposal plant;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing solids of such character and quantity
that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials at the
sewage treatment plant; and/or
   (H)   Any sewage, malodorous gas, or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.051 COMMERCIAL RUNOFF.
   (A)   Any runoff from commercial establishments, such as vehicle washing
racks, creamery building, and the like, shall enter the sewer only through a
suitable settling basin and/or grease trap. Each connection shall be approved
by the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-17)
   (B)   (1)   No whey shall be deposited into the city or private sewer
system. In the event that whey is found in the sewer system, or in the lagoon,
then the City Council shall:
      (2)   Either have the sewer plugged so that no further use of said sewer
may be used where there is any possibility of whey going into the sewer
lagoons; or
      (3)   In the alternative, make a charge to the user of said establishment
where whey is entering the sewer, an additional fee as deemed necessary to
treat the city sewer lagoons, so that proper chemical action can be maintained
in the said sewer lagoons to assure the proper functional use thereof, and to
enable them to operate as normal sewer lagoons.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-18)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.052 DISRUPTION OF FLOW; GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully clump any course
garbage or waste material into the sewer, if such garbage and material would
have a tendency to disrupt the flow of said sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-16)
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the municipality, or
any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other similar waste.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-13)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.053 INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   No person shall discharge into any sewer outlet within the municipality, or
any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, unless suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-8
§ 53.054 STORM AND SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted process waters into any municipal sanitary sewer without the
expressed permission of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-33)
   (B)   Storm water or other unpolluted drainage, including industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process water, may be discharged into such sewers as
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-34)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.055 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarter or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed
of impervious materials, capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature, with easily removable covers, which, when bolted in place, shall
be gas-tight and watertight. All grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner at his or her expense in a continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-36)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
PRIVATE SEWERS
§ 53.070 PERMIT; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewer or construction
of a disposal plant, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the municipality which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the City Finance
Officer at the time that the application is filed, the amount to be determined
by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-6)
   (B)   A permit for a private sewer shall not be final until the installation
is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant shall
notify the Superintendent of Public Utilities that the work is ready for final
inspection before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be
made within 48 hours of the receipt of the notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-7)
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-6, 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.071 STATE REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
plant shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of Public
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge into any municipal sewer or sewer outlet.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.072 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Where a municipal sanitary sewer is not available, a private owner may
construct and connect a private sewage disposal plant complying with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-4)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to build
or construct any cesspool, either on private or public ground, within the
corporate limits of the city, unless the same is constructed and built so as to
keep water and the contents of the same from soaking into the ground, and built
of good concrete or other material equally durable.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall have general supervision
of all connections made to the city sewer and the excavations so related.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
§ 53.073 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewer and sewage disposal
plant in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9, Chapter 9-48
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Vehicle requirements
   
70.03   City authority
   
70.04   Police regulations
   
70.05   Minors
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURB. On such streets as are fitted with curbs, and on such streets as have
not been fitted, it shall be construed to mean the outside edge of the parking
as defined by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3)
   SIDE OF A STREET.
      (1)   LEFT-HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side of the street as the left-hand
side of the street of the driver of the vehicle, when seated in the proper
position to drive, use, or operate the vehicle.
      (2)   RIGHT-HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side of the street as the right-
hand side of the street of the driver of the vehicle, when seated in the proper
position to drive, use, or operate the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2)
   TRUCKS. All vehicles larger than a one-ton pickup truck, including:
tractors; trailers; semi-trucks; and semi-trailers.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-4)
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, cycle, or motorcycle, except road rollers, fire
wagons, engines, police patrol wagons, or ambulances, intended for use on the
streets and on thoroughfares, and shall include equestrians and sled and driven
horses.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 32-30
§ 70.02 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Brakes, horns, and lights. Every motor vehicle operated or driven upon
the public streets, alleys, or public grounds of the city shall be provided
with adequate brakes in good working order; and shall be provided with a
suitable bell, horn, or other device for signaling; and shall, during the
period from one-half an hour after sunset to one-half an hour before sunrise,
display at least two lighted lamps on the front of each motor vehicle and a red
light at the rear thereof; provided that each bicycle or motorcycle shall
display but one lighted lamp in front.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-5)
   (B)   Glaring headlights prohibited. Every driver of an electrically-lighted
motor vehicle shall equip the same with two headlights and one red light at the
rear, and such mechanical device as shall properly deflect or diffuse the light
so as not permit a glare to be thrown into the eyes of any person approaching
the same or being approached by it.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)
   (C)   Spotlights. Spotlights shall not be used anywhere within the limits of
the city, except by police officers and city employees.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)
   (D)   Muffler required. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good
muffler to muffle the exhaust of the engine thereof, and the operator of such
vehicle shall, at all times while operating the same within the city, keep the
said muffler closed.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 70.03 CITY AUTHORITY.
   The governing body of the city may, by resolution, designate through
streets, safety zones, quiet zones, limited parking areas, speed zones, truck
routes, and the character and placement of all official traffic signs and
signations.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 70.04 POLICE REGULATIONS.
   All drivers and operators of vehicles shall, at all times, comply with any
direction of voice, hand, whistle, or any signaling device given by any police
officer as to slowing down, stopping, starting, backing, approaching or
departing from any place, the manner of taking on or letting off of passengers,
the loading or unloading of any commodities, or any reasonable regulations of
traffic, upon the streets of the city; and pedestrians shall not cross any
street of said city at any other place than at the regularly provided crossing
at the intersections of streets, and in crossing streets, pedestrians shall, at
all times, be subject to obey all police officers, or other proper officers
authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 70.05 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, hirer, lessee, or
any person in charge of or under whose control any motor vehicle is, to permit
the same to be driven or operated on any of the streets or alleys of the city
by any person under the age of 14 years.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-32) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
70.02 through
70.05, or failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-33)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Roadway Safety Regulations
   
71.01   Vehicles meeting and passing
   
71.02   Keeping to the right
   
71.03   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
71.04   Sidewalks and crossings
   
71.05   Speed limitations
   
71.06   Stopping; backing up
   
71.07   Unmuffled dynamic braking, air braking, or jake braking prohibited
Dangerous Driving
   
71.20   Vehicles must de driven carefully
   
71.21   Racing
   
71.22   Exhibition driving
   
71.23   Reckless driving
   
71.24   Driving while intoxicated
   
71.25   Congregating near fire
   
71.26   Hit and run drivers
Weight Damage and Turning
   
71.40   Load limits
   
71.41   Heavy machinery
 
   
71.99   Penalty
ROADWAY SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 VEHICLES MEETING AND PASSING.
   (A)   Any vehicle meeting another vehicle shall pass to the right, and any
vehicle overtaking another shall pass to the left, and shall not pull over to
the right until entirely clear of it; the overtaking vehicle shall, again, pull
over as close to the right-hand side of the street as practicable, and no
vehicle shall overtake and pass another vehicle where the conditions of traffic
are such that the overtaking vehicle, in order to pass the overtaken vehicle,
will have to turn to the left so much as to cause it to be upon the left-hand
side of the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-14)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle overtaking another
vehicle to pass, or attempt to pass, the same at any intersection.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-15)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.02 KEEPING TO THE RIGHT.
   All persons operating, using, or driving any vehicle or vehicles upon any of
the streets of the city shall keep to the right-hand side of the center of the
street, except as herein provided; and no vehicle shall be turned around on any
street, except in the square formed by the intersection thereof with another
street.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-11) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 71.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The Police Department, Fire Department, and all ambulances shall have the
right-of-way on any street. On the approach of any fire apparatus, police
patrol, or ambulance, all other vehicles on the street shall draw up as near as
possible to the right-hand curb of the street and remain there, at a
standstill, until any such fire apparatus, police patrol, or ambulance shall
have passed, and shall, at no time, follow any such fire apparatus within 300
feet while the same is responding to an alarm.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-18) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.04 SIDEWALKS AND CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive any vehicle
upon or over any sidewalk in the city, other than at a public or private
crossing.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-21)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle across any sidewalk, except
where a driveway is provided, and no person driving any vehicle across any
sidewalk to or from any lot, building, alley, or roadway shall drive or operate
the same at a greater rate of speed than ten mph.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be driven out of any building across any
sidewalk, unless the person driving the same shall first sound his or her horn,
bell, or other proper sound apparatus as a warning to any pedestrian who may be
on the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-13)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon the public streets or alleys
in the city in a manner which, under the circumstances, tends to endanger life
or property. The speed limit within the city, except upon the highways under
state control or in special speed zones, shall be 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-24)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle at such
a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic at the point of operation thereof, or in compliance with any law, rule,
or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-29)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31, § 9-31-1
§ 71.06 STOPPING; BACKING UP.
   (A)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall come to a full stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but:
         (a)   If none, before entering the crosswalk on the near-side of the
intersection;
         (b)   If none, then at the point nearest the intersection; or
         (c)   If none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered or is approaching the intersection from another
highway and shall not proceed into the intersection until certain that such
intersecting roadway is free from oncoming traffic which may effect safe
passage.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-25)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be moved backward for a greater distance on any
street or alley than is necessary to turn or move away from the curb, and ample
warning shall be given to avoid injury to other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-16)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to back a vehicle around a corner at an
intersection. No vehicle shall be backed without ample warning first being
given.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-17)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.07 UNMUFFLED DYNAMIC BRAKING, AIR BRAKING, OR JAKE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Defined. An UNMUFFLED DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE is a device used
primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of rear brakes. These devices are commonly referred to as “Jacob’s brakes,”
“Jake brakes,” “compression brakes,” or “air brakes.”
   (B)   Prohibited. Operating any motor vehicle with an unmuffled dynamic
braking device shall be
prohibited within the territorial jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   Public emergency exception. Any public emergency response vehicle
equipped with a dynamic braking device will be allowed to use such device
during a response to an emergency.
   (D)   Imminent danger exception. If in operating a motor vehicle, an
imminent danger or threat happens, engaging the unmuffled dynamic braking will
be allowed for the aversion of the immediate danger.
(Ord. 2023-71.07, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
DANGEROUS DRIVING
§ 71.20 VEHICLES MUST BE DRIVEN CAREFULLY.
   Every person operating a motor vehicle, or any vehicle, on any of the public
streets, alleys, or public grounds in the city shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner so as not to endanger the property or the life or
limb of any person.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.21 RACING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator or driver of any vehicle to race with
any other vehicle on said streets or thoroughfares of the city, or to engage in
any contest of speed with any other vehicle, or the driver thereof, on said
streets or thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-10) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.22 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle within the city limits in such a manner that
creates or causes unnecessary engine noise; creates or causes unnecessary tire
squeals, skids, or slides upon acceleration or stopping; simulates a temporary
race; causes a vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway; or causes a
vehicle to unnecessarily block or hinder the free travel of other vehicles
shall be guilty of exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-28) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.23 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon the streets carelessly and heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or without due caution and
circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or
property, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-30) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.24 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate, or attempt to drive
or operate, any motor vehicle upon any of the public streets, alleys, or public
grounds of the city while such person is in an intoxicated or drunken condition
or under the influence of intoxicating liquors.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-31) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.25 CONGREGATING NEAR FIRE.
   (A)   No person, vehicle, or person operating or driving the same shall
congregate or stand in or near any public street or streets or alleys of the
city within 100 feet of any fire.
   (B)   No person, vehicle, or person operating or driving the same shall
drive over any fire hose stretched out on the ground.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-19) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.26 HIT AND RUN DRIVERS.
   In case of any injury to the property or the person of another by any driver
of any motor or other vehicle, it shall be the duty of such driver to
immediately notify the Police Department of such accident or injury.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-22) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
WEIGHT DAMAGE AND TURNING
§ 71.40 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The city reserves authority to fix special temporary load limits upon
streets, avenues, alleys, and public rights-of-way within the city whenever
good cause appears therefor.
   (B)   Upon the posting of such special load limits, it shall be unlawful for
any motor vehicle, or combination of motor vehicles, to travel upon said
streets, avenues, alleys, or public rights-of-way in excess of the load limits
posted.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-27) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-31
§ 71.41 HEAVY MACHINERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any machinery or vehicle
of such a size or nature as to injure any street crossings, culverts, or
pavement inside the city.
   (B)   Should anyone violate this statute, he or she shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall also be liable to the amount of damage caused.
(Prior Code, § 13-2-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.06,
71.20 through
71.26, and/or
71.40, or failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-33)
   (C)   Any person or persons violating §
71.41 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-31-1
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   Duty of police
Method of Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing, and parking
   
72.16   Parking vehicle not in use
   
72.17   Obstructions of public ways and fire hydrants
   
72.18   Right-of-way
   
72.19   Angled parking
   
72.20   Double parking
   
72.21   Snow alerts
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   PARKING is the standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic regulations or
traffic signs or signals.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.02 DUTY OF POLICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police to notify any person so
encumbering, obstructing, or parking any motor vehicle illegally upon any
streets, and to remove any such vehicle therefrom forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-18)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police to notify any person so encumbering
or obstructing, as described in §
72.16, any street, road, alley, sidewalk, or other public grounds, to remove
any such vehicle therefrom forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle in any of the following places, except when to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Outside the first line of cars parked next to the curb, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of any while actually engaged in loading or
unloading;
   (D)   Within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   In front of a private driveway;
   (H)   On a sidewalk; and
   (I)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.16 PARKING VEHICLE NOT IN USE.
   No person shall place, leave, or keep on any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or public grounds in the city any automobile, truck, wagon, or other
vehicle, except when the same shall be in actual use; nor shall any person
place, leave, or keep thereon any automobile, implements, or other vehicle
inactive or not in actual use for the purpose of display, sale, barter, or
exchange.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-5) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.17 OBSTRUCTIONS OF PUBLIC WAYS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall be stopped or left within 15 feet of a fire
hydrant, nor in such a position to obstruct a crossing, unless to allow another
vehicle or pedestrian to cross its path.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be allowed to stand upon any street within 15 feet
of the property line of any intersection street.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-4)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park in any alley in such a manner to
obstruct, in any way.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-10)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon the
public sidewalks of the city, or in such a manner as to obstruct the crosswalks
in any city street.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-14)
   (D)   (1)   No cars or trucks shall be parked at the place within the city
where the curb is painted red, or within 25 feet of any fire hydrant which is
painted red.
      (2)   No cars or trucks shall be parked at any place within the city
where they might tend to obstruct any intersection between any of the streets
and alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-16)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle that is parked either at the side or in the
middle of any city street shall, in leaving its place of parking, give the
right-of-way to the ordinary traffic upon such streets.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-11)
   (B)   The drivers of vehicles parked in the center of the street where such
parking is permitted shall give the right-of-way to vehicles parked at the curb
when such vehicles are in the act of leaving their place of parking.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-12)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.19 ANGLED PARKING.
   All cars parked within the business district of the city shall be parked at
the proper angle between the lines drawn on the pavement for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.20 DOUBLE PARKING.
   Double parking upon any of the streets of the city shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-8) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.21 SNOW ALERTS.
   (A)   Defined. A snow alert will be issued by the Street Department, Mayor,
or the Police Department anytime two or more inches of snow is predicted. The
public will be notified by Alert Sense, social media, or local media outlets.
   (B)   Prohibited. Parking on any street within the city limits of Burke
until the street has been plowed from curb to curb or until the pavement is
cleared if no curb is present.
   (C)   Notice of removal. If a snow alert is issued, all vehicles and
trailers must be removed or ticketing will begin once the snow removal
operations have started. Any vehicle or trailer will be towed to the city’s
designated area if it isn’t removed by the time snow removal operations have
started on the same street. Whenever a vehicle or trailer is removed from a
street, the person authorizing such removal, shall immediately give or cause to
be given the owner of such vehicle or trailer, written or verbal notice of the
fact of such removal, the reasons thereof and the place to which such vehicle
or trailer has been removed.
   (D)   Recovery of removed vehicles/trailers. The owner of a removed vehicle
or trailer, or his or her authorized agent, may not recover such vehicle or
trailer from the place where it has been placed or impounded until he or she
presents to a law enforcement officer evidence of his or her identity and right
to possession of the vehicle or trailer, signs a receipt for its return, pays
the cost of its removal, and pays any storage fees. Until paid, charges
constitute a lien on the vehicle, which may be enforced in the same manner as a
garage keeper's lien in accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the
State of South Dakota.
   (E)   Record of removals. Law enforcement officers shall keep a record of
each vehicle removed pursuant to this section. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
removal, where it was removed from, its storage location, the name and address
of its owner and last operator (if known), its final disposition, and the
parking violation involved.
(Ord. 90.03.1, passed 12-11-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
72.02 and/or
72.15 through
72.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Upon Main Street
   
II.   School zone and traffic control
   
III.   Turning
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
SCHEDULE I. UPON MAIN STREET.
   (A)   All vehicles entering upon Main Street shall come to a full stop.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-12)
   (B)   Every driver of a motor vehicle approaching the intersection of a
street shall grant the right-of- way at such intersection to any vehicle
approaching such intersection from his or her right-hand side; however, Main
Street is designated as a through street. Vehicles traveling on Main Street
have the right- of-way.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-17)
   (C)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this schedule, or failing to comply with any of the provisions
thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-33)
SCHEDULE II. SCHOOL ZONE AND TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The following street and alley is closed to traffic during the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days set by the school calendar, during
such times as the barricades are placed across the street and alley:
      (1)   All of that part of the street lying between Block 59 and Block 64;
and
      (2)   The alley abutting Block 64 of the original city.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-26)
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this schedule, or failing to comply with any of the provisions
thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-33)
SCHEDULE III. TURNING.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall govern turning:
 
Street/Location             Type of Turn Prohibited Method of Turning
All the streets and alleys
within the city, except at
intersections; further
prohibited at the           U-turns                 -
intersection of Main Street
with Fourth, Fifth,
Seventh, Eight, Ninth, and
Eleventh Streets
All streets of the city,    Cross-lane turns (upon
except those where center   making proper signals)  -
parking is permitted
All streets and alleys of                           Turn the corner as near to
the city; when turning into -                       the right-hand boundary of
another street or alley to                          the road as possible
the right
All streets and alleys of                           Before turning, pass to the
the city; when any driver                           right and beyond the center
is turning into another     -                       of the intersection of the
street or alley to the left                         streets or alleys
of him or her
Between Seventh Street and
Tenth Street on Main        Cross-lane turns        -
Street, except at
intersections
 
(Prior Code, § 13-2-3)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this schedule shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-2-4)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Unlimited parking
   
II.   Parking trucks
   
III.   Center parking
   
IV.   Continuous parking
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
SCHEDULE I. UNLIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   Motor vehicles may be parked for any length of time upon the Court
House Square and residence streets not in conflict with other provisions of
this title; except that parking on the north side of Eighth Avenue opposite the
Court House, except on Sundays and holidays, shall be made by parking vehicles
parallel to the curb.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-3)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-19)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or cause to be parked,
any truck on Main Street between intersections Fifth and Main and Tenth and
Main, except while loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-7)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-19)
SCHEDULE III. CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Center parking upon any of the city streets shall be unlawful, except
on Main Street, on which parking parallel to the curb shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-9)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-19)
SCHEDULE IV. CONTINUOUS PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle continuously
parked upon the streets of what has been defined as the business district of
the city for more than 96 hours.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-13)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS
      
92.   PUBLIC WALKS AND GROUNDS
      
93.   FIRE SAFETY
      
94.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping of livestock
   
90.03   Livestock running at large
   
90.04   Hunting
Dog Licensing and Vaccinations
   
90.15   License required
   
90.16   Conditions for license
   
90.17   Rabies vaccination
   
90.18   Out-of-state vaccinations
   
90.19   Certifications and tags
   
90.20   Quarantine; rabies
Dogs; Dangers and Nuisances
   
90.35   Excessive noise
   
90.36   Female dogs in heat
   
90.37   Running at large
   
90.38   Vicious dogs
   
90.39   Impoundment
   
90.40   Enforcement officers; right of entry
Cats
   
90.55   Authority to impound
   
90.56   Unclaimed cats; impoundment
   
90.57   Identified cats; impoundment
   
90.58   Control of diseased cats
   
90.59   Release from shelter
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off or outside of the premises belonging to the owner or keeper of
such dog and not under the control of such owner, possessor, or keeper, or the
agent, servant, or member of his or her immediate family by means of a leash,
cord, or chain not to exceed ten feet in length; provided that an unleashed dog
off the owner’s premises shall not be deemed AT LARGE if he or she is under the
immediate control of the owner or his or her agent.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, both male and female.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than ten feet in length by which a
dog is controlled by the person accompanying it. A dog in an automobile is
considered to be on the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10)
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal which is raised for normal agricultural purpose; does
not include rabbits, but does include, although not exclusively: hogs; cattle;
sheep; horses; chickens; and the like.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
   OWNER. A person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog; the occupant of any
premises to which a dog customarily returns is presumed to be the owner.
   PREMISES. The dwelling house and outbuildings and the lot or tract of land
on which the same are situated, and shall include an automobile or other
vehicle in which the owner of the dog shall be an occupant, or of which he or
she shall have control, or in which any dog shall be situated with the consent
of the owner of the vehicle.
   QUALIFIED PERSON. Any person granted a permit by the governing body of the
city to vaccinate animals against rabies.
   VACCINATION. The injection by a veterinarian or other qualified person of
vaccine approved by, and administered in accordance with, the provisions of
this chapter and the resolutions of the governing body of the city.
   VETERINARIAN. Any licensed practitioner of veterinary medicine licensed to
practice such profession in the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 2-14-4, 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13, Chapter
40-28
§ 90.02 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to keep livestock of any kind within city
limits, except temporarily or in connection with the buying or selling of the
same.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
   (B)   No person shall be permitted to keep rooster chickens within city
limits. The maximum number of non-rooster chickens in city limits at any time
is 20.
   (C)   Under the exception which is laid out in division (A) above, if a
person does keep livestock within city limits, he or she shall maintain the
premises in a healthful manner, keeping the area sanitary by controlling
noxious odors, flies, and other pests therein.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
(Ord. 2-4-2(a), passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1, Chapter 40-28, § 40-28-3, Chapter 43-
23, Chapter 43-24
§ 90.03 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Anyone having livestock under §
90.02(A) must keep the same from running at large.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
   (B)   No person, company, or corporation shall allow any horse, mule, ass,
cattle, swine, sheep, goat, or other animal to run at large within the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-32-1, 40-28-2, 40-28-3,
40-28-4, Chapter 43-23, Chapter 43-24
§ 90.04 HUNTING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to hunt on city property, except the
Missouri River Archers’ annual archery rabbit hunt, on that tract that the club
leases from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
   (B)   Animal depredation problems shall be appropriately handled, with
hunting allowable upon obtaining written authorization from the City Council or
the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
Penalty, see §
90.99
DOG LICENSING AND VACCINATIONS
§ 90.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   There is hereby imposed upon each dog more than six months old kept within
city limits a yearly license fee in a sum to be determined by the City Council,
depending upon how many animals a particular individual owns. The amount shall
increase with the number of dogs a person has in his or her possession. The
purpose of this statute is to prevent the nuisance of multiple dog ownership.
The fees shall be paid on or before May 1 of each year, in amounts set by City
Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12, Chapter 40-34
§ 90.16 CONDITIONS FOR LICENSE.
   As a condition to the issuance of a dog license, the person making such
application shall furnish a certificate from a licensed veterinarian that the
dog sought to be licensed has been vaccinated for and made immune to rabies
within the previous year.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12, Chapter 40-34
§ 90.17 RABIES VACCINATION.
   On or before May 1 of each year, every owner shall have his or her dog
vaccinated against rabies, except that in all cases where an animal shall have
been properly vaccinated with the type of vaccine known as the modified live
virus of chick embryo origin, or other type vaccination having a longer
immunization period and approved by resolution of the governing body of the
city, the vaccination required by this section need not be repeated during the
time for which the dog is effectively immunized, as determined by the
veterinarian or other qualified person granting a permit under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, Chapter 40-34
§ 90.18 OUT-OF-STATE VACCINATIONS.
   Any owner who has had his or her dog vaccinated against rabies in another
state or municipality by the proper authority therein shall not be required to
have such dog re-vaccinated during the current year when brought into this
municipality; provided that the requirements of such state or municipality
under which the vaccination was made were of a standard which is equal to or
greater than those required by this subchapter; and further provided that such
dog wears a tag affixed to his or her collar or harness bearing the date of
such vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, Chapter 40-34
§ 90.19 CERTIFICATIONS AND TAGS.
   (A)   A veterinarian or qualified person who vaccinates the dog shall issue
to the owner thereof a vaccination certificate. The vaccination certificate
shall be prepared and issued in triplicate; one copy is to be retained by the
issuing veterinarian or other qualified person, a second shall be given to the
City Finance Office, the third may be kept by the dog’s owner.
   (B)   Each certificate shall bear the name and address of the veterinarian
or other qualified person who issued it, and a statement containing the
description and the kind and name of the dog immunized, the type of vaccine
used, the date of the vaccination, the date on which the period of effective
immunization will expire, and the serial number.
   (C)   The veterinarian or qualified person shall also furnish each owner
with a metal tag bearing the certificate number and the year of vaccination.
Said tag shall be affixed by the owner of the dog to the collar or harness of
the said dog for which the certificate was issued. No one except the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent shall remove the collar with the attached tag
from the dog.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, Chapter 40-34
§ 90.20 QUARANTINE; RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of the city, or the Health Officer
thereof, has reason to believe that there is danger that rabies may spread
within the municipality, the Board of Health shall publish a notice requiring
owners of dogs, and other specified animals in the area designated, to confine
the animals for such period as may be necessary to prevent the spread of
rabies.
   (B)   The Board of Health, Health Officer appointed by the governing body of
the city, or the governing body shall have the authority to quarantine, for a
period not to exceed 90 days, any animal bitten by another animal known or
suspected to have rabies, and to quarantine, for a period not to exceed 15
days, any animal which has bitten a human being or which exhibits symptoms of
rabies.
   (C)   Whenever a dog dies with rabies, or is destroyed because of its having
been suspected of being rabid, the owner thereof, whether the dog has been
previously quarantined or not, shall, at his or her own expense, send the head
of such dog to a proper laboratory for examination. Any confinement imposed
shall be by means of a chain, and not a rope, of sufficient strength to hold
such an animal. Under the circumstances described in divisions (A) and (B)
above, and this division (C), any animal not confined is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-12, 9-29-13
DOGS; DANGERS AND NUISANCES
§ 90.35 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
    Dogs which bark and/or howl excessively, whether during daylight or night-
time hours, within city limits are hereby declared a nuisance, and such a
disturbance may be prevented after a written warning has been issued to the
owners of the dog(s). The owner has ten days after the warning to rectify the
barking dog(s) complaint. If the owner does not rectify the barking dog(s)
complaint after ten days, they may be issued a citation with penalties set
forth in §
90.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 90.35, passed 6-10-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   All female dogs kept within the city during periods of heat shall be
confined to the premises of the owner, or, if taken from such premises, shall
be kept upon a leash.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 90.37 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to allow any dog
owned, controlled, or harbored by said persons, firm, or corporation to run at
large on the streets, alleys, or property of any other person within the city
limits. Such a dog shall be declared a nuisance, and in abatement, may be
destroyed. Any person having a dog within the city limits shall have it tied,
leashed, or otherwise controlled upon his, her, or their property; the dog
cannot run at large off the property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow a dog off the premises without the animal being held on a leash.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 40-34-4
§ 90.38 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)    Any dog who has bitten a person or who has the propensity to attack
or bite human beings is hereby defined to be fierce, dangerous, and vicious. No
dog with the above mentioned propensities shall be allowed to run at large upon
the premises of any person other than the owner. If such an animal is found to
be running at large, it shall be impounded, and shall not be released except
upon the approval of the Chief of Police, after the payment of fees set forth
to cover the costs of impounding.
   (B)   No dog may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is sustained to
any person or animal who was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or
who was trespassing on the property by committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (C)   When the animal control officer or police officer declares an animal
to be vicious; the officer shall notify the owner of such declaration in
writing that such animal must be registered as a vicious animal. Said notice
shall be served either in person or by mailing such notice by certified mail.
   (D)   The owner of an animal that has been declared vicious shall make
application to the animal control officer or Police Department to register said
vicious animal and shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The owner of the animal shall notify the animal control officer or
Police Department of any changes in the following:
         (a)   Ownership of the animal;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of a new owner;
         (c)   Address change of the owner or any change in where the animal is
housed; and
         (d)   Any change in the health status of the animal or death of the
animal.
      (2)   If the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than six feet and under the control of a person
over 18 years of age.
      (3)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in an escape-proof kennel approved by the animal control officer or Police
Department. Minimum standards shall include the following:
         (a)   Fencing material shall not have openings with a diameter of more
than two inches;
         (b)   Any gates with such pen or structure shall be lockable and of
such design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal;
         (c)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and top. If the pen
or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded in
the ground or concrete;
         (d)   The pen or structure shall protect the animal from the elements;
and
         (e)   The pen or structure maybe required to have a double exterior
wall to prevent the insertion of fingers or other objects.
      (4)   A universal sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed on
the pen or structure visible from the sidewalk/street and adjacent to the
property where the dog is kept.
      (5)   The owner shall carry $100,000 liability insurance covering the
medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from the vicious animal's actions or
any other damage the animal may do. Proof of insurance shall be filed with the
Burke Police Department annually.
   (E)   The vicious animal shall be impounded by the Police Department, at the
owner's expense until such time as the provisions in division (D) are complied
with.
   (F)   If the conditions in division (D) are not met within a period of 30
days, the animal shall be euthanized. All costs associated with impoundment,
compliance with division (D) herein, and euthanasia shall be paid by the owner.
   (G)   The owner or caretaker of a vicious animal shall immediately notify
the animal control officer or Police Department if the animal should become
loose or attacks a human or animal.
   (H)   If the vicious animal is owned by a minor, the parent/guardian of the
minor shall be responsible for the compliance of all the regulations imposed
and liable for all injuries or damages sustained by any person caused by an
attack by the animal.
   (I)   Any dog with the above mentioned propensities which cannot be
impounded safely may be immediately destroyed by any police officer acting in
the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11) (Ord. 90.38, passed 12-11-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13
§ 90.39 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog found in the city in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be impounded by any police officer of the city, or by any
person appointed by the governing body of the city as its agent and employee
for that purpose, and placed in the city animal pound or other suitable place
provided by the city for that purpose. The Chief of Police, any officer of the
Police Department, or the animal control officer appointed by the governing
body shall, within 24 hours following the impounding of such dogs, notify the
owner of the animal having been impounded and of its confinement in the custody
of the city. If the owner of the animal is unknown, such police officer shall
post written notice in the City Finance Office describing the animal and
stating the time and place where the animal was apprehended, and how the same
may be recovered by the owner.
   (B)   Unless the dog is recovered and all charges paid for its upkeep by the
owner or person having charge thereof, and unless such dog is registered and
licensed as provided by this code, it shall be sold or destroyed in the most
humane manner possible after the expiration of four days from the time when
notice was posted stating that the dog was apprehended and impounded; provided,
however, that any dog which has been diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian to be
suffering from rabies or any dangerous contagious disease shall be immediately
destroyed.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or any animal control officer appointed by the
governing body, shall collect a sum to be determined by the City Council for
each dog impounded and the additional sum per day for keeping any dog which has
been apprehended or impounded, and such officer shall not release any dog until
such charges have been paid, and until said dog has been duly registered and
licensed, if need be, as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12
§ 90.40 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any animal control officer appointed by the Chief of Police shall be
defined as an agent of the city, or as an enforcing officer, both of which
shall have power under this chapter. The Chief of Police may choose himself or
herself when filling this post.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14)
   (B)   When in immediate pursuit of any dog found to be at large in the city,
a city police officer, or other person designated by the governing body to
apprehend offending dogs, may enter upon the premises of the owner of such
offending dog for the purpose of apprehending such dog; provided that, for
purposes of this section, the word premises shall not be construed to include
the inside of any dwelling or any other building.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 2-14-4, 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13
CATS
§ 90.55 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   The city police officer, or an animal control officer of the city, is hereby
authorized, upon complaint of a resident of said city, to catch upon the
property of the complainant such cats as may be causing a nuisance thereon and
impound such cats in a suitable place for the care of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.56 UNCLAIMED CATS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Upon impoundment of a cat without identification, the animal control
officer shall post a written notice at the City Finance Office describing the
cat and stating the approximate time and place where such cat was apprehended,
and how the same may be recovered by the owner.
   (B)   Unless recovered by the owner, said cat may be sold or destroyed in
the most humane manner possible after the expiration of four days from the time
when notice of apprehension and impoundment was given or posted.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.57 IDENTIFIED CATS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Upon impoundment of a cat with identification, the animal control officer
shall, within 24 hours of such impoundment, notify the owner of the cat’s
impoundment, how the cat may be recovered, and that it must be picked up within
four days, or the cat will be sold or destroyed in the most humane way
possible.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.58 CONTROL OF DISEASED CATS.
   Any cat which has been diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian to be suffering
from rabies or a dangerous contagious disease shall not be released, but may be
destroyed forthwith, or otherwise held or disposed of according to the
recommendation of the veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 90.59 RELEASE FROM SHELTER.
   No person shall unlawfully release, or assist in releasing, any dog, cat, or
other animal from the city impoundment facility.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.04 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 for the first violation,
and not to exceed $200 for the second violation and for each offense
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
   (C)   If the problem described in §
90.35 has not been taken care of, a fine not to exceed $100, plus court costs,
will be assessed to the owner per violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
   (D)   A violation §
90.59 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 91: PARKS
Section
   
91.01   Supervisors and protection of property
   
91.02   Authority of police
   
91.03   Protection of trees and shrubs
   
91.04   Disposal of rubbish
   
91.05   Driving on plots and planting spaces
§ 91.01 SUPERVISORS AND PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Mayor and the City Council members shall be, and are hereby
constituted as, the Board of Park Supervisors.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
   (B)   Any person who shall deface, mar, injure, break into, or in any way
interfere with any house, building, or other property situated in any park
belonging to the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-38, § 42-2-10
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The authority of the Chief of Police and other police officers of the city
shall extend to and cover the property described as a public park in §
91.03 below, and the said police officers shall have the same jurisdiction to
enforce the ordinances of the city within the said park, or within one mile of
the outer boundary of said park, for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the community, and of enforcing the
ordinances and resolutions of the city relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-38, § 42-2-10
§ 91.03 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Any person who shall climb any tree, or cut, break, pluck, root up, or
in any way disturb any trees, flowers, shrubs, plants, or bulbs planted or
growing in any public park or other public ground of said city shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The following described land located outside the city is hereby
established as a public park, to wit:
      (1)   The southeast quarter of the northeast quarter and the northeast
quarter of the southeast quarter of section 32, township 97 north range, 71
west of the fifth PM, except a piece or parcel of land described as follows:
beginning at the southwest corner of the northeast quarter of the southeast
quarter of section 32, township 97 range, 71 west of the fifth PM, and running
east 815.5 feet; thence north 52 degrees, 30 minutes, west 596 feet, thence
north 89 degrees, 48 minutes, west 342 feet, thence south 367 feet to the point
of beginning, embracing 4.88 acres;
      (2)   And including the following described parcel of land: beginning
210.5 feet south of the northeast coner of the northwest quarter of the
southeast quarter of section 32, township 97 north, range 71 west of the fifth
PM running thence north 90 degrees, west 210 feet, thence south 47 degrees, 10
minutes, west 240 feet, thence south 594 feet, thence south 89 degrees, 48
minutes, east 384 feet thence north 757 feet to the point of beginning,
embracing 6.34 acres, more or less; and
      (3)   Also the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter and the
northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 33 all in township 97
north, range 71 west of the fifth PM.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-38, § 42-2-10
§ 91.04 DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit, or cause to be
thrown or deposited, any paper, tin cans, rubbish, or offal of any kind in any
such park or in or about any place set apart for swimming, or body of water or
stream within or adjoining any park under the control of the Board of Park
Supervisors of said city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-38, § 42-2-10
§ 91.05 DRIVING ON PLOTS AND PLANTING SPACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lead or drive any horses, other
animals, any vehicle, or motor vehicle over or upon any of the grass plots or
planting space of any public park, except at such places as may be provided for
the parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-38, § 42-2-10
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WALKS AND GROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Duty of owners
   
92.02   Cleaning public walks
   
92.03   Snow removal
   
92.04   Bicycles
   
92.05   Awning posts and eave pipes
   
92.06   Trimming trees
   
92.07   Other obstructions
Construction and Repair of Public Grounds
   
92.20   Mandatory grades
   
92.21   Materials
   
92.22   Curb lines on residential streets
   
92.23   Sidewalk widths
   
92.24   Rebuilding and repair
   
92.25   Hindering Street Commissioner in making improvements
   
92.26   Naming streets and avenues
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of all non-resident owners to have all lots, or parts
of lots owned by them, and all sidewalks, streets, and alleys abutting on said
lots kept free from all rubbish, and in case of failure or refusal upon their
part so to do, upon notice as aforesaid, then, and in that case, the City
Council may order the Chief of Police to remove said rubbish, and have the cost
of such removal assessed to the owner of said lot or lots as other taxes, or
recovered by a civil action against said owner or owners prosecuted on behalf
and in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-2
§ 92.02 CLEANING PUBLIC WALKS.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of any lot or parcel of land in the
city, abutting on any alley, street, or sidewalk, to keep such sidewalk, and
also to keep such street and alley to the center thereof, free from all filth,
unwholesome matter, manure, straw, paper, or rubbish of any kind whatsoever. A
24 hours’ notice, given by the Marshal or Board of Health, which is either
written or oral, shall be deemed sufficient notice for the purpose of this
section. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section within said time
limit shall subject said occupant or owner to the penalties hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-2
§ 92.03 SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the occupants of any property to remove all snow
from any public sidewalk abutting the property in question, within a 24-hour
period. In the event the property is unoccupied, this duty is transferred to
the owner, who shall be responsible for removing snow within said time period.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30, § 9-30-5
§ 92.04 BICYCLES.
   No person shall ride any bicycle on any sidewalk of this city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.05 AWNING POSTS AND EAVE PIPES.
   (A)   No person shall set any awning post so as to obstruct any street or
alley of this city, nor shall any person drop any awning of any material, or
suffer the same to approach nearer to the surface of the sidewalk than seven
feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4)
   (B)   No person shall on any streets or place maintain any pipe leading from
the eaves of any building in such a manner that the water therefrom shall be
discharged upon or over any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.06 TRIMMING TREES.
   The occupant or owner of any private premises abutting any public street or
alley shall keep all trees standing upon such premises, or between the same and
the center of the adjoining street or alley, so trimmed that no bough or branch
thereof shall be lower than eight feet above the sidewalk level.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-2
§ 92.07 OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place any goods or merchandise for sale or exhibition
upon any sidewalk, or suspend any goods over the same, or show, cause, or
suffer to be deposited thereon any cask, barrel, case, box, or package, except
as provided for in division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-9)
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any person to place on three-feet width of the
outer edge of the sidewalk in front of his or her premises, for a period not
exceeding ten hours, any foods or merchandise which he or she may be in the act
of receiving or delivering. It shall also be lawful for any person to display
on or over the sidewalk in front of his or her premises, and within two feet of
the building by him or her, used as a place of business, any goods, wares, or
merchandise not of any unsafe or nauseous nature.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-10)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF PUBLIC GROUNDS
§ 92.20 MANDATORY GRADES.
   No sidewalk shall be laid, nor curbs built, that shall not conform to the
grades established within the city without obtaining a variance from the City
Council or its authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.21 MATERIALS.
   No materials, except concrete, shall be used in the building of sidewalks or
curbs, and that all sidewalks and curbs shall be built at the expense of the
abutting property owners, of a width of not less  than four feet, nor less than
four inches in thickness; that the outer line of the sidewalks along such
property shall be not more than five feet and six inches from the property
line.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.22 CURB LINES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   The curb line along residential streets, and especially properties used
exclusively for residence purposes, shall be 18 feet from the property line;
except Main Street, and that part of Seventh Street lying between Block 37, 38,
43, and 44, and that part of Eighth Street lying between Block 43, 44, 51, and
52, and that part of Ninth Street lying between Block 51, 52, 57, and 58, and
that part of Washington Street abutting lots one to six inclusive, in Block 44,
all being in the original city site, shall be 16 feet from the property line;
that the space between the outer sidewalk line and the curb line along
residence streets shall be known as parking, and trees, when planted in any
parking, shall be placed at least four feet from the outer line of the
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.23 SIDEWALK WIDTHS.
   The sidewalk abutting properties used for business purposes on Main Street
shall be 12 feet wide, and along properties used for business purposes on any
streets, shall be eight feet wide; provided, however, that when sidewalks are
constructed along the west side of the lots in Blocks 58, 65, and four of the
Waterman’s additions to the city, that the same shall be ten feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-6)
§ 92.24 REBUILDING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary to construct,
rebuild, or repair, except as hereinafter provided, any sidewalks in said city,
it shall notify all owners and occupants of any lots adjoining such sidewalks
requiring the construction and repair, within a time limit at the said owner’s
expense. The notice shall contain what work is to be done and the character,
and it may be general as to the owner or occupants, but must be specific as to
the descriptions of the lots or parcels of land in front of which sidewalks are
to be built, rebuilt, or repaired. The time specified in such notice shall be
not less than 15 days from the time of first publication.
   (B)   (1)   If such work is not done and the sidewalks not built, repaired,
or rebuilt in the manner and within the time prescribed above in said notice,
the City Council may order the same to be done by any such person it contracts
with and under the direction of the Chief of Police. The said expenses shall be
assessed upon the lots or parcels of land chargeable by the Chief of Police
Marshal, and the bill delivered by him or her to the City Council.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall then publish the amount, together with a
notice of time and place where the City Council will meet to approve. The
publication in each newspaper shall occur at least ten days prior to the
meeting of the City Council. Said assessments, if so made and approved, shall
be a lien upon said lots and parcel of land, on and after such approval is
given.
   (C)   Within the days after such assessments shall have been approved, the
Finance Officer shall file a certified copy of the same in the City Finance
Office, and thereupon said assessment shall be payable to the said city. If
they are not paid within 30 days, a penalty, often 10%, shall be added.
   (D)   The City Council may provide, by ordinance, provisions for the
repairing of sidewalks.
   (E)   Any owner of real property who shall fail to keep in repair his, her,
or their sidewalks when notified shall be held liable to the city for any
damage caused by such neglect.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.25 HINDERING STREET COMMISSIONER IN MAKING IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall hinder or obstruct the Street Commissioner or any employee
of the city in lawfully making any improvement in any public street, alley, or
public ground in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 92.26 NAMING STREETS AND AVENUES.
   (A)   All thoroughfares of the city running south and north, except alleys,
shall be called streets; and all thoroughfares running east and west shall be
called avenues.
   (B)   The principal business street of the city, being the only street that
is 100 feet in width, shall be known as Main Street; the first street east of
Main street shall be known as Washington Street; the second street east of Main
Street shall be known as Lincoln Street; the third street east of Main Street
shall be known as Franklin Street; the first street west of Main Street shall
be known as Jackson Street; and the second street west of Main Street shall be
known as Jefferson Street.
   (C)   The avenues of the city shall be numbered consecutively, beginning
with the one farthest north, which shall be known as First Avenue, and from
that the avenues shall be numbered consecutively toward the south: third;
fourth; and so on.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
CHAPTER 93: FIRE SAFETY
Section
Refuse Burning
   
93.01   Air pollution control
   
93.02   Burning restrictions
Portable Outdoor Fireplace
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Conditions for use
Fireworks
   
93.30   Firework sales
   
93.31   Discharging fireworks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
REFUSE BURNING
§ 93.01 AIR POLLUTION CONTROL.
   The Air Pollution control regulations for the state adopted by the state’s
Air Pollution Control Commission on January 17, 1992, being ARSD Article 74:36
and amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by the city, and copies of said
regulation are in place in the office of the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
§ 93.02 BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of refuse and/or other combustible material,
and no person shall conduct, or cause or permit the conducting of, a salvage
operation by open burning within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
   (B)   No person shall burn garbage, refuse, or combustible material within
the city limits, excluding indoor wood stoves.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3)
Penalty, see §
93.99
PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any matter that is designated as hazardous or dangerous
by any local, state, or federal law.
   OPEN BURNING. 
      (1)   The burning of materials wherein products of combustion are emitted
directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from
an enclosed chamber.
      (2)   OPEN BURNING does not include road flares, smudgepots, and similar
devices associated with safety, or occupational uses typically considered open
flames, recreational fires, or use of portable outdoor fireplaces.
      (3)   For the purpose of this definition, a chamber shall be regarded as
enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, any apertures, ducts, stacks,
flues, or chimney necessary to provide combustion air and permit the escape of
exhaust gas are open.
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE (FIRE PITS). A portable, outdoor, solid fuel-
burning appliance that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay, or other
noncombustible material. A PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE may be open in design, or
may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney
opening in the top.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill, or barbeque pit, and has
a total fuel area of three feet or less in diameter, and two feet or less in
height, for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth, or similar
purposes.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground or attached by something having a fixed location on the ground,
including, without limitation: buildings; walls; fences; billboards; and poster
panels.
(Ord. 6-5-1.1, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.16 CONDITIONS FOR USE.
   Open burning which takes place in a portable outdoor fireplace is allowed,
provided the following conditions are met.
   (A)   Instructions. The portable outdoor fireplace shall be used in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (B)   Distance. The fire must be in an approved container located not less
than 15 feet from any structure.
   (C)   Adult supervision. The fire must be attended by an adult at all times.
Fires must be extinguished before the adult attending the fire leaves the area.
   (D)   Approved devices. All recreational fires must be confined within an
approved container, or other listed appliance approved for the purpose of
burning materials.
   (E)   Suppression. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher with a
minimum 4-A rating, or other approved on-site extinguishing equipment (such as
dirt, sand, water barrels, garden hoses, or water trucks) shall be available
for immediate use.
   (F)   Approved fuel.
      (1)   Except for such kindling or igniting materials as are necessary to
ignite the fire, the fire shall be fueled only by clean, dry, seasoned
firewood, commercially-available firewood substitutes, or other commercially-
available solid fuels designed to be used in outdoor fireplaces without
producing excessive smoke.
      (2)   All fuel must be approved for use by the manufacturer of the
portable outdoor fireplace.
   (G)   Prohibited fuel. The following materials may not be used as kindling,
fuel for fires, or otherwise burned: tires; rubber; oil; plastic; chemicals;
landscape waste; green wood; leaves; grass; flammables; or hazardous
substances.
   (H)   Prohibited locations. No fire may occur upon any right-of-way,
highway, or street.
   (I)   Nuisance fires. Nothing herein authorizes any person to maintain a
fire which constitutes a nuisance under these provisions.
(Ord. 6-5-1.1, passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.30 FIREWORK SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, or
offer for sale or gift, within the city limits or property of the city, without
a city and state license and fee for the city license set by the city, any
fireworks, firecrackers, torpedoes, roman candles, skyrockets, or any other
form or manner of fireworks before the days set by SDCL § 34-37-16.1 .
   (B)   The applicant must disclose and the city approve of the location where
the person, firm, or corporation will be selling the fireworks, and have
liability insurance satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-37-4, 34-37-16.1
§ 93.31 DISCHARGING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to discharge
within the city limits, or property of the city, any fireworks, firecrackers,
torpedoes, roman candles, skyrockets, or any other form or manner of fireworks,
except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. during the periods of time
set forth in SDCL § 34-37-16.1 .
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 34-37-16.1
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
93.01 and/or
93.02 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 for the first violation,
and not to exceed $200 for the second violation and for each offense
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
93.30 and/or
93.31 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Filing a nuisance complaint
Snow Removal
   
94.15   Snow on sidewalks
   
94.16   Snow must be broken up
   
94.17   Snow removal by police
   
94.18   Snow removal by city
   
94.19   Failure to clear snow
Weeds and Noxious Vegetation
   
94.30   Definition
   
94.31   Duty of occupants
   
94.32   Neglect of property owners
   
94.33   Duty to mow lawn
Nuisances Dangerous to Public Health
   
94.45   List of prohibited acts
   
94.46   Police inspections
   
94.47   Abatement without notice
   
94.48   Animal impoundment
   
94.49   Violations
Public Health; Food Safety
   
94.60   Inspection of food
   
94.61   Persons handling food
   
94.62   Cleaning of utensils
   
94.63   Protection against contamination
   
94.64   Disposal of hazardous foodstuffs
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FILING A NUISANCE COMPLAINT.
   (A)   All complaints are kept completely confidential. When a complaint
comes into the office, the following steps will be followed:
      (1)   Document the complaint; what it is, where it is, where it is
located, whose property it is located upon, and the date;
      (2)   Request photographs be taken of the nuisance identified in the
complaint;
      (3)   Document that pictures were taken (including the date and person
who took the pictures);
      (4)   Review, print, date, and save the pictures:
         (a)   If no violations are identified, document the findings on the
complaint form and file it away; or
         (b)   If a violation is identified, document the findings and identify
the specific ordinance(s) that the property is in violation of. Attach a copy
of the pictures to the complaint form.
      (5)   Send a copy of the complaint form and pictures to the Nuisance
Committee for its review and recommendation. Once it advises that the complaint
needs to be addressed, proceed to the next step;
      (6)   Send a courtesy notice to the property owner requesting the
violation be removed by a certain day. The length of time allowed to correct
the nuisance depends on what the Nuisance Committee suggests. The notice must
inform the property owner of his, her, or their right to appeal the Nuisance
Committee’s findings;
      (7)   Following the deadline established in the courtesy notice, request
new photographs of the property in violation. Then, follow division (A)(3)
above again;
      (8)   Review, print, date, and save the pictures:
         (a)   If the violation(s) has been corrected, document the findings on
the complaint form, send a thank you letter, and file it away; or
         (b)   If the violation(s) still exists and/or there are no
identifiable improvements being made to correct the nuisance, document the
findings and note that the violations still exist. Attach a copy of the
pictures to the complaint form and follow division (A)(5) above again.
      (9)   Send a notice of violation via certified mail with return receipt
to the property owner, requesting the violation be removed by a certain day.
The length of time allowed to correct the nuisance depends on what the Nuisance
Committee suggests;
      (10)   Following the deadline established in the notice of violation,
request new photographs of the property in violation. Then, follow division (A)
(3) above again;
      (11)   Review, print, date, and save the pictures:
         (a)   If the violation(s) has been corrected, document the findings on
the complaint form, send a thank you letter, and file it away; or
         (b)   If the violations still exist and/or there are no identifiable
improvements being made to correct the nuisance, document your findings, and
note that the violations still exist. Attach a copy of the pictures to the
complaint form and follow division (A)(5) above again.
      (12)   Send a notice of abatement via certified mail with return receipt
to the property owner requesting the violation be removed by a certain day. The
length of time allowed to correct the nuisance depends on what the Nuisance
Committee suggests;
      (13)   After sending the notice of abatement, determine what will be
needed in order to abate the nuisance (i.e., equipment, personnel, towing
company, and the like). Contact those individuals that will need to be present
so that everything is in order when the deadline arrives;
      (14)   Following the deadline established in the notice of abatement,
request new photographs of the property in violation. Then, follow division (A)
(3) above again;
      (15)   Review, print, date, and save the pictures:
         (a)   If the violation(s) has been corrected, document your findings
on the complaint form, send a thank you letter, and file it away; or
         (b)   If the violation(s) still exist and/or there are no identifiable
improvements being made to correct the nuisance, document the findings and note
that the violations still exist. Attach a copy of the pictures to the complaint
form. Proceed to next step.
      (16)   Contact the City Attorney and the Nuisance Committee to confirm
and schedule the abatement. Contact those individuals and/or equipment to
advise them of the date, time, and place of the abatement;
      (17)   Abate the nuisance and document everything that was removed or
corrected to ensure compliance with code enforcement ordinances. Make sure to
have a law enforcement officer on site to ensure safety of all those involved
in the abatement process. Keep record of all expenses, as they will be billed
to the property owner or assessed against the taxes;
      (18)   Contact the property owner(s) following the abatement:
         (a)   For nuisance abatements not involving the removal of an
abandoned/junk vehicle, compile the costs and send the property owner a bill
for the expenses incurred in the abatement; or
         (b)   For nuisance abatements including the removal of an abandoned/
junk vehicle, send a notice of removal via certified mail with return receipt
to the title and lien holder of the vehicle. This is to advise him or her of
his or her right to reclaim the vehicle, upon payment in full of all costs of
the removal.
      (19)   Other costs associated by hiring an individual to assist with the
abatement process will be paid by the city and billed back to the property
owner.
   (B)   In the event that the property owner fails to collect his or her
certified mail, the County Sheriff or City Police Department may serve the
papers. This service shall be documented and signed by whoever delivers the
papers.
   (C)   Include the City Attorney and Nuisance Committee members on all
correspondence to property owners.
(Ord. 17-1-1, passed - -)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 94.15 SNOW ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the lessee or occupant of the first or
ground floor or person having charge, or if there be no lessee, occupant, or
person having charge, then the owner, of each and every parcel of real estate
in the city abutting or bordering upon any street, avenue, highway, or other
public place, to remove, or cause to be removed, all snow and ice from the
sidewalk in front of, or adjacent to, such premises to the full paved width of
such sidewalk, within 12 hours of daylight after such snow or ice shall have
fallen or accumulated thereon, unless because of excessive accumulation, the
time for removal is extended by the proper authority.
      (2)   Snow accumulation upon sidewalks within city limits is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
   (B)   In case the snow and ice on the sidewalk shall be frozen so hard that
it cannot be removed without injury to the pavement, the lessee, occupant,
person having charge, or owner of every parcel of real estate shall, within the
time specified in the preceding statute, cause the sidewalk abutting or
adjacent to such premises to be strewn and to be kept strewn with ashes, sand,
salt, sawdust, or some other suitable material, and shall, as soon thereafter
as the weather shall permit, thoroughly clean such sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.16 SNOW MUST BE BROKEN UP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or put, or cause to be thrown
or put, any snow or ice into any street, avenue, or other public place in the
city, unless the same shall be broken up and spread evenly over the surface of
such street, avenue, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.17 SNOW REMOVAL BY POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer in case he or she finds that the
snow and ice have not been removed from the sidewalks, or in case of neglect of
the person charged with such duty by this subchapter, to spread sand or other
substance upon ice or snow when the same cannot be removed within the time
required by this subchapter, and immediately to notify the Chief of Police
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.18 SNOW REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   Whenever any owner, lessee, occupant, or person having charge of any
parcel of real estate shall fail or neglect to remove snow and ice from any
such sidewalk, as provided in this subchapter, the Chief of Police, without
notice, shall have the ice and snow removed therefrom.
      (1)   A bill for the expense incurred thereby shall be presented by the
Chief of Police to the owner, personally, by leaving the same at his or her
residence, or place of business, or if he or she is a non-resident, by mailing
the same to his or her last known address, or, if the name of such owner or his
or her place of residence cannot be determined or ascertained after due
diligence, by posting the same in a conspicuous place on his or her premises.
      (2)   If he or she shall fail to pay the same within 30 days thereafter,
the Chief of Police shall file each year immediately proceeding the time for
the making of the annual assessment roll, his or her certificate of the actual
cost of such work, together with a statement as to the property in front of or
on which the cleaning was done, with the City Assessor who shall, in the
preparation of the assessment roll of general city taxes, assess such amount
upon such property, and the same shall be levied, corrected, enforced and
collected in the same manner, by the same proceedings, at the same time, under
the same penalties, and having the same lien upon the property assessed as the
general city tax and as a part thereof.
   (C)   The imposition and collection of any fine or penalty prescribed by
this subchapter shall not be a bar to the right of the city to collect the cost
of removing and cleaning of snow and ice from the sidewalks, as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.19 FAILURE TO CLEAR SNOW.
   Any snow which is not removed within the time frame set forth in this
subchapter is hereby specifically declared to be a nuisance, and the
municipality shall have the authority to prevent, abate, and remove the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION
§ 94.30 DEFINITION.
   The following weeds and plants are hereby declared to be noxious weeds and
are hereby declared to be nuisances, to wit: rag weed; thistles of any kind;
wild sunflower; goldenrod; cocklebur; sandbur; wild oats; wild mustard; wild
lettuce; wild salsify; pig weed; wild fire bush; and all other useless weeds
suffered or allowed to grow during the growing season.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-5
§ 94.31 DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the occupant, person in charge, or the owner
of any lot or parcel of land in the city to keep such lot or parcel free from
any noxious vegetation, particularly as to the weeds and plants mentioned in §
94.30 above, and to cut such noxious vegetation at such time or times as may be
necessary to prohibit growth and the bearing of seed.
   (B)   Occupants are hereby required to cut or otherwise destroy the weeds
growing between June 1 and June 15 of each year, and again between July 1 and
July 15 of each year; and in case of failure, the City Council may order the
same to be done by any person or person with whom it contracts, and in such
case the City Council shall assess a special tax against the lot for the amount
expended in the destruction of such weeds. This tax shall become due as soon as
said work is completed.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-2)
   (B)   The owners of all city lots or outlets within the corporate city
limits shall keep all streets and alleys bordering upon such lots or out lots
free from weeds to the center line of such streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-5
§ 94.32 NEGLECT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   When the owner of any such city lot or outlot shall refuse or neglect
to destroy any weeds growing in any street or alley bordering thereon on his or
her side of the center line, the City Council may order the same to be done by
any person or persons with whom said City Council may contract; and in such
case, the City Council shall assess a special tax against said city lot or out
lot for the amount necessary in the destruction of such weeds.
   (B)   Such a tax shall become due as soon as the work is completed; provided
that if the owner of such city lot or out lot can be found, he or she is to be
given five days’ notice to destroy such weeds before any other person shall be
employed to do so.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-5
§ 94.33 DUTY TO MOW LAWN.
   (A)   The maximum height of grass allowed will be eight inches; if grass
height exceeds the allowed height, the city will then send one notice of mowing
to the property owner and/or renter of the property to have the property mowed
and trimmed within ten days of the date of the letter.
   (B)   If the property is not mowed by the date stated in notice, the city
will mow the property at the rate of $250 per hour, with the minimum charge of
one hour.
   (C)   The city will not send additional notices if this section continues to
be violated, and the property will be mowed and the charges will be assessed.
(Ord. 4-2-G, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
NUISANCES DANGEROUS TO PUBLIC HEALTH
§ 94.45 LIST OF PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The commission of each and every one of the acts prohibited in this section
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (A)   Privies and cess pools. No person shall erect a privy or cesspool
within 20 feet of any street or dwelling within the corporate limits of the
city, nor maintain within said city limits any privy or cess pool that emits
any foul or offensive odor.
   (B)   Manure. No person shall deposit, or permit to be deposited or thrown,
in or upon any alley or lot within said city any manure, except for garden use.
Any manure for gardens use must be tilled in within ten days.
   (C)   Rat control. No person shall permit his or her premises or property to
get into a condition whereby it becomes a natural harbor or inducement for rats
or other rodents. When such condition is found to exist, such person shall be
notified and given a reasonable time to abate such condition; and in the event
he or she shall refuse or fail to do so, the same may be abated by the city at
the expense of such person.
   (D)   Offensive substances in public places. No person shall throw, drop,
deposit, or leave any dead carcass, or portion thereof, of any chicken, animal,
or other offensive or unwholesome substance upon any public street, alley, or
other public grounds of the city.
   (E)   Removal of dead chickens, animals, and the like. No occupant of any
building or lot in said city shall permit any dead chickens, animals, or other
offensive or unwholesome substances whatever to remain in such building or upon
such lot for a period exceeding 24 hours, nor shall any person permit any such
dead chickens, animals, or other unwholesome substances to remain in or upon
any lot or tenement, or between the same and the center of the street or alley
adjoining.
   (F)   Swill and house offal. All keepers of hotels, restaurants, and others
accumulating garbage are hereby required to keep and maintain a proper covered
receptacle for such garbage and to cause the contents thereof to be regularly
removed at least once each week.
   (G)   Weeds. No owner of any premises within the corporate limits of the
city shall knowingly permit any of his or her premises therein to go unkept to
the extent that unhealthy growths of weeds or other herbage shall develop
there, or that stagnant water should develop into a breeding habitat for
mosquitoes.
   (H)   Corrections. Should an owner of premises within the city permit such
unhealthy and unsightly nuisances to develop thereon, either the Board of
Health, City Council, or the Mayor may, after giving the owner of such premises
due notice of his or her obligation to keep such premises in a clean and
healthy condition, and allowing him or her a reasonable time to remedy the
condition, cause city employees to enter upon such premises and, at the expense
of the owner, correct the same.
   (I)   Outdoor privies. No person living within the corporate limits city
shall permit any outdoor toilet facilities or outhouses of that nature to be
erected on his or her premises.
   (J)   Accumulation of garbage. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit
any offal, garbage, or other such offensive matter to be deposited or to
accumulate to unhealthy proportions upon any of his or her premises within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (K)   Trash bins. The occupants of every dwelling house or apartment shall
provide a suitable and sanitary receptacle in which such occupants shall cause
to be deposited all garbage accumulating upon the premises. The immediate
vicinity of such garbage cans shall be kept free of garbage and other matter
which may become putrid and attract flies.
   (L)   Depositing garbage on streets. No person shall throw or deposit any
ashes, offal, dirt, garbage, junk, or other such offensive matter into the
streets, alleys, avenues, or public grounds within the city.
   (M)   Depositing garbage in sewers. No person shall throw or deposit any
feathers, offal, dirt, garbage, or other substance which might tend to clog or
obstruct the sewage, into any sewage, pipe, drain, or manhole in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.46 POLICE INSPECTIONS.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police, either on personal
knowledge or upon receipt of notice of the existence of any nuisance within the
city, as mentioned in this chapter, to forthwith give notice, in writing, to
the person or persons keeping, maintaining, or permitting such nuisances, or to
the person or persons owning, occupying, or having control or possession of the
premises where such nuisance is kept, maintained, or permitted, to at once
abate the same; and if such nuisance is not abated within 24 hours after the
service of such notice, it shall be the duty of said officer to forthwith abate
and remove the same at the expense of the city and for the expenses so
incurred, the city may recover, either by special tax assessment against any
property owned by any such person, the same to be collected at the time and in
the manner as provided for collection of other taxes or such expenses may be
recovered by a civil action for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.47 ABATEMENT WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Whenever any of the premises, lots, lands, buildings, or places mentioned or
referred to in this subchapter shall be unoccupied, and the owner thereof is a
non-resident of the city or cannot, after due diligence, be found, the said
Chief of Police may proceed to abate the nuisance, as described in §
94.48 below; provided, without giving the notice required under this subchapter
and recovery of expenses and costs therefor may be had as in other cases of
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 94.48 ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find it necessary to remove from any
place any hogs, cattle, mules, horses, or other animals in the performance of
his or her duties under this chapter, he or she may impound the same as in the
case of impounded animals, and the owner or person in charge shall not be
entitled to the possession thereof until he or she shall pay to the said Chief
of Police all costs, expenses, and charges for taking and caring for said
animals, together with the fees allowed in case of impounded animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 94.49 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or persons violating any of the foregoing provisions of this
subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine or
imprisonment, as hereinafter provided, and each and every day such person or
persons shall neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions aforesaid
after being served with written notice, as hereinbefore provided, shall be
deemed a separate violation for which, upon conviction, he or she shall be
subject to a like penalty.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
PUBLIC HEALTH; FOOD SAFETY
§ 94.60 INSPECTION OF FOOD.
   The city’s Board of Health, either by its Superintendent or other duly
authorized representative, shall have the right to inspect all articles of food
offered or intended for sale by stores, bakeries, meat markets, dealers in milk
and cream, vegetables, and other food or foods relative to the condition of
such foods, and the place or places where the same are kept.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-3
§ 94.61 PERSONS HANDLING FOOD.
   No person who is effected with any communicable disease in transmittable
stage shall be employed as a handler of food in any restaurant, hotel, lunch
counter, ice cream parlor, tea room, soda fountain, or other place where food
or drink is served, or in any dairy, milk, or cream station in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-4
§ 94.62 CLEANING OF UTENSILS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, proprietor, or person in charge of any
restaurant, hotel, tea room, lunch counter, ice cream parlor, soda fountain, or
any other place where food or drink is sold or served, to thoroughly cleanse
all dishes, cups, drinking glasses, and eating utensils immediately after being
used by washing them in a strong solution of washing soda or soap in hot water
and rinsing in clear hot water, or by thorough sterilization by some other
equally effective method approved by the Board of Health.  Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the use of paper cups, dishes, or other single-service
containers; provided that they be used once only and immediately destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
§ 94.63 PROTECTION AGAINST CONTAMINATION.
   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the sale of any of the food
stuffs enumerated in this subchapter shall cause the same to be properly
protected by screens, refrigeration, or otherwise against contamination by
flies, street dust, or any other agency.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-4
§ 94.64 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS FOODSTUFFS.
   Whenever any articles intended as food or drink for human use found being
offered or exposed for sale or in possession of any dealer with intent to sell
which is unfit for human use, the Department of Health and its Superintendent,
or other authorized agent, shall order its removal and disposal. In case the
owner or person in charge shall fail to immediately observe said order, the
Health Department shall proceed to enforce it at the expense of the owner or
person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-32
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner, lessee, occupant, or person in charge who shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to remove snow and ice or strew the same with sand or other
substances as directed in §
94.15, or who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
94.15 through
94.19, and/or who shall resist or obstruct the Chief of Police or his or her
employees in the removal of snow and ice shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine not to exceed $100 for each on which such violation
continues. Each day constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-13, 9-29-13
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose and definitions
   
95.02   Authority of city; public safety
   
95.03   Minimum tree clearance
   
95.04   Intentional harm to trees
   
95.05   Buildings near trees
   
95.06   Tree disease; public safety hazard
   
95.07   Cost of nuisance abatement
   
95.08   Interference of enforcement
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be used as the Municipal Tree
Regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
   (B)   The contents of this chapter shall be construed to mean any attention
or action necessary resulting from the removal of any tree, brush, wood, or
debris, or any part thereof, as deemed necessary by the City Council or its
designated representative, whomever he or she may be.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-11)
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARK TREES. Trees and all other wood vegetation in public parks,
playgrounds, cemeteries, and all other areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park, playground, or cemetery.
      STREET TREES. Trees and all other wood vegetation on land lying between
the right-of-way lines of all streets, avenues, alleys, or other public rights-
of-way within the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 2-1-3.1, 9-38-2, 9-45-1, 50-10-1
§ 95.02 AUTHORITY OF CITY; PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   The city is to provide for the necessary attention or action insofar
as trees, brush, wood, shrubbery, or debris infected with Dutch elm disease, as
well as any other infestations or infectious diseases are concerned.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-3)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council, through its Superintendent of Parks,
will hereafter have authority to administer the provisions of this chapter,
unless otherwise specified; provided that they will have the authority to study
the problems and determine the needs of the city, also referred to hereinafter
as the municipality.
      (2)   (a)   They shall have the authority to determine the type and kind
of trees to be placed upon all municipal public streets, parts of public
streets, or in parks. They may assist in the dissemination of news and
information regarding the selection, planting, and maintenance of trees,
shrubs, and bushes within the corporate limits, or within the area over which
the municipal officials have jurisdiction, whether the same be on private or
public property.
         (b)   The City Council and Superintendent of Parks shall have the
authority and jurisdiction of regulating planting, maintenance, and removal of
trees on streets and other publicly-owned property to ensure safety or preserve
the aesthetics of such public sites.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-45-1
§ 95.03 MINIMUM TREE CLEARANCE.
   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees, to
prune such trees in such manner that they will not obstruct or shade the street
lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct vision of
traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersection, except
where such services are provided for by utility firms.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-1
§ 95.04 INTENTIONAL HARM TO TREES.
   Unless otherwise specifically authorized by the City Council or Park
Superintendent, no person shall intentionally damage, cut, or carve any public
tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters, or other contrivances
to any tree; allow any gaseous liquid or solid substance which is harmful to
such trees to come in contact with them; or to set fire or permit any fire to
burn when such fire or the heat therefrom will injure any portion of any tree.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-1, 22-34-1
§ 95.05 BUILDINGS NEAR TREES.
   No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public place of
the municipality any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other materials which may
impede the free passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots of any tree
growing therein, except by written permit of the City Council or Park
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-1, 43-16-4
§ 95.06 TREE DISEASE; PUBLIC SAFETY HAZARD.
   (A)   (1)   No tree shall be allowed to harbor any safety hazard to the
general public, whether that tree be public or private, or to harbor any
insect, disease, or other pest that would be injurious or fatal to any tree in
the city. Such trees include those injurious to sewer, water, electrical,
telephone or gas lines, and those interfering with traffic and traffic control
devices and signs, those obstructing light from any street light, and those
that are dead or have broken or dead limbs that are unsafe.
      (2)   Any elm wood or elm tree, living or dead, within the city found to
have Dutch elm disease, fungus, Ceratocystic ulmi, or which would harbor the
European elm bark beetle, Scolytus multistratus, and or the native elm bark
beetle, Hylurgopinus rufipes, shall be declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
   (B)   (1)   Any hazard as described in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above
shall be declared a nuisance by the City Council, and within 15 days of written
notice of said nuisance, the same shall be corrected by the responsible owner
or person in possession of said tree.
      (2)   The Park Superintendent and City Council shall inspect, or cause to
be inspected, all premises and places within the city at least twice each year
to determine whether any public nuisance, as defined in this section, exists
thereon; and shall also inspect, or cause to be inspected, any elm tree
reported or suspected to be infected with the Dutch elm disease, or any elm
bark bearing material reported or suspected to be infested with either species
of the above named elm bark beetles. The Finance Officer shall notify owners as
to location of the Dutch elm infested trees. The Park Superintendent will make
inspection after 15 days to make certain of compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-8)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1, 9-45-1, 34-16-20
§ 95.07 COST OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The entire cost of any abatement of a public nuisance, as defined in
this section, on trees on any public street, alley, park, or other public
place, except boulevards, shall be borne by the city. The cost of removing elm
trees infected with the Dutch elm disease fungus on private property and on
boulevards shall be borne by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-9)
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall keep a strict account of all costs of tree
removals and other nuisances abated under this chapter in the event assessments
are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 21-10
§ 95.08 INTERFERENCE OF ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere
with the City Council or any member thereof, the Park Superintendent, or any
other representative of said City Council, whomsoever that might be, while
engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this chapter; provided,
however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the
pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court of competent
jurisdiction serving the municipality for the protection of property rights by
the owner of any property within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 22-11-4
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   JUNK YARDS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
      
114.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
115.   TATTOOS AND BODY PIERCINGS
      
116.   CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required
   
110.02   License application
   
110.03   Terms of license
   
110.04   License fees
   
110.05   Licenses to be posted
   
110.06   Licenses to temporary businesses
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful within the city to engage in, pursue, or transact in
any business, trade, calling, profession, occupation, or avocation, or to do
any act or carry on any business therefor, without complying with the
regulations herein after provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person required to obtain a license under and by virtue of this
chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall make application to the City
Council, in writing, by filing the same with the City Finance Officer and
tendering, with said application, the amount specified for such license; upon
receipt of the application and license fee, the City Finance Officer shall give
the applicant a receipt for the license fee and shall place the application
before the City Council at its next regular or special meeting.
   (B)   If such application is granted by the City Council, a record thereof
shall be made in its minutes, and thereafter, the City Finance Officer shall
issue the license applied for; however, the City Council shall use discretion
in the granting of licenses and may refuse to do so, in which case the license
fee received by the City Finance Officer shall be returned to the applicant
upon his or her return of the receipt issued therefor, and the fact that an
applicant may have the City Finance Officer’s receipt for the license fee shall
not be sufficient to authorize him or her to operate until a license is granted
and delivered to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.03 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, any license issued pursuant to this title shall
be for the terms specified within the document itself.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees are determined by the City Council according to an annual or
occupationally-based definition, which may cover either one payment or several,
depending upon the circumstances involved.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.05 LICENSES TO BE POSTED.
   All occupational licenses issued under this title shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at the business premises involved, or, if no such place
exists, they shall be kept upon the licensed person, available for inspection
by the proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.06 LICENSES TO TEMPORARY BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to pursue
the occupation of a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, as defined in §
114.01, without first having procured a license therefor.
   (B)   License for such purposes may be procured from the City Finance
Officer upon payment of the fees therefor as follows:
      (1)   For a peddler’s license, the fee shall be $25 per day;
      (2)   For a transient merchant’s license, the fee shall be $100 per
month; and
      (3)   For a solicitor’s license, the fee shall be $25 per day.
   (C)   A solicitor, in addition to procuring a license from the City Finance
Officer, upon payment of the fee specified herein, shall register with the City
Finance Officer his or her name and address, and file with said Finance Officer
a bond in the penal sum of $1,000, to be approved by the City Attorney for the
protection of residents of the city when advancing money for personal property
for future delivery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   City to regulate sale and use
   
111.03   Liquor sales
   
111.04   Liquor sale limitations
   
111.05   Unobstructed view
Violations
   
111.20   Intoxicated persons
   
111.21   Off-sale drinking on premises
   
111.22   Unsealed beverages
   
111.23   Gambling, dances, and the like
Licensing
   
111.35   License required
   
111.36   License application
   
111.37   Special on-sale event license
Municipal Liquor Store
   
111.50   Operation
   
111.51   Hours of operation
   
111.52   Acquisition of liquor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR, LIQUOR, INTOXICATING BEVERAGES, and ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
are synonymous and interchangeable; distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous,
and malt beverages.
   PERSON Includes persons, associations of persons, firms, co-partnerships, or
corporations.
   SALE and SELL. The transfer of title of any intoxicating liquor or high
point beer, as defined above, for a consideration or by trade, exchange, or
gift.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34
§ 111.02 CITY TO REGULATE SALE AND USE.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to engage in retailing alcoholic
beverages. It shall have the power to regulate the transaction of business in
alcoholic beverages; the use and consumption thereof; to establish the number
of on-sale and off-sale licenses which may be issued, and the fees to be
charged therefor; provide for reasonable classification of on-sale and off-sale
licenses; and for the issuance of malt beverage licenses.
   (B)   The fees to be charged for the various classifications shall be
uniform within each class, consistent with the provisions of SDCL Title 35.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7, Title 35
§ 111.03 LIQUOR SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any off-sale or on-sale licensee to sell any
intoxicating liquors, as defined in this chapter, between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day on week days. In the case of off-sale,
the same hours apply to both Saturday and Sunday; for on-sale, those hours only
apply to Saturday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any such licensee to sell any intoxicating
liquors on Memorial Day, or any day on which a general or special election is
held, until after the close of the polls of such election, unless authorized by
state law and the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 111.04 LIQUOR SALE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall not approve any on-sale or off-sale
applications unless said applicant’s place of business is situated within the
then-existing business district of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any on-sale dealers to sell liquor to any
person who is not in complete view of every other person in the licensed
premises and also observable from any and all points thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any on-sale dealer to sell any intoxicating
liquor except by the drink, and he or she shall not sell any original package,
whether the same be sealed or unsealed, or whether the same be full or partly
full.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-7
§ 111.05 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   The place of business of an on-sale liquor dealer shall be a room situated
upon the street level, and the windows of said room shall be unobstructed so
that a clear view of the interior thereof may be had; and it shall not have any
exit therefrom except from the front and rear of said building, and the rear
entrance shall not enter into any other room or building.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
VIOLATIONS
§ 111.20 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any on-sale or off-sale licensee to permit any
intoxicated person to enter or remain on his or her said premises, and it shall
be unlawful for any on-sale licensee to permit any person to become intoxicated
on his or her licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-7
§ 111.21 OFF-SALE DRINKING ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any off-sale dealer, as defined by this chapter, to
permit any intoxicating liquor to be drank in or about said licensed premises,
and said off-sale dealer shall not be permitted to make any deliveries of
intoxicating liquors outside of his or her licensed place of business.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 111.22 UNSEALED BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession in a
public place within the city any intoxicating liquor or high point beer, except
that contained in a sealed, original package with the United States government
and state liquor stamp tax seal unbroken; provided, however, that this section
shall not be applied to on-sale dealers, hospitals, or to the city auditorium;
provided, the use thereof is authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 111.23 GAMBLING, DANCES, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any on-sale liquor dealer to permit, or allow to be
played, in his or her licensed premises any games of chance not authorized by
the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3, Chapter 22-25
LICENSING
§ 111.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, exchange, barter, distribute, or keep for sale any
intoxicating liquor, as defined in §
111.01, without having obtained a license therefor, pursuant to the provisions
of SDCL Chapter 9-34 and of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-34
§ 111.36 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to enter into the liquor business within the city shall
make application for a license, as provided in the SDCL Title 35 . Such
application shall be presented to the City Finance Officer, and should the
license applied for be granted, such licensee shall furnish a surety bond if
the same be required for the purpose provided for, and in the amounts
specified.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-7, Title 35, 35-2-1.2, 35-2-3, 35-2-
5.2, 35-3-6 to 35-3-11
§ 111.37 SPECIAL ON-SALE EVENT LICENSE.
   (A)   The city requires any business that currently holds an on-sale liquor
license, or any non-profit club or group that is wanting to sell alcoholic
beverages in a public location, to apply for a special on-sale event license.
The fee for the special on-sale event license is $25. Said application can be
picked up at the City Finance office, and must be turned in to said office at
least one month before the event.
   (B)   If a special City Council meeting has to be held to approve any
special event license, the applicant will have to pay for the city holding such
meeting, which is $350. A public hearing will need to be held if a non-profit
group or club is applying for a special event license. Such hearing notice will
need to be published two consecutive weeks prior to the date of the City
Council meeting in which said application will be approved or declined.
(Ord. 7-3-3.1, passed 6-10-2019)
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORE
§ 111.50 OPERATION.
   (A)   The municipal liquor store shall be operated by an operator, pursuant
to an operating agreement approved by the City Council and the operator.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
   (B)   The city may enter into operating agreements with other operators as
provided by law and as approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 35-3
§ 111.51 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Municipally-licensed establishments may be open from 7:00 a.m. until 2:00
a.m., excluding Sundays, unless specifically authorized in a separate agreement
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 35-3
§ 111.52 ACQUISITION OF LIQUOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of establishments operating under
the municipal license to pay for the liquor in the manner prescribed in the
operating agreements.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
   (B)   The operators shall only buy liquor from suppliers approved by the
City Council and shall account for these purchases monthly. Purchase from an
unapproved vendor is grounds for immediate termination of the operating
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-7, Chapter 35-3, 35-3-7, 35-4-11
CHAPTER 112: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Duty of owners
   
112.03   Licensing
   
112.04   Fences
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who shall be engaged in the business of buying,
selling, receiving, storing, collecting, or dealing in scrap metals, secondhand
parts of motor vehicles or machinery, machinery which is being kept for the
purpose of being dismantled or discarded, bottles, scrap rubber, rags, paper,
bones, or junk in general. In reference to used cars and secondhand parts of
cars, this shall not be deemed to apply to bona fide secondhand automobile
dealers, but the mere fact that the owner or operator of said establishment
reconditions or sells some secondhand cars shall not eliminate his or her
establishment from the effects of this.
   JUNK YARDS. Any area wherein junk is piled, stored, or kept; includes the
areas within a person’s yard, field, or place of business.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Includes all those areas of the city which are used
principally for personal living quarters and residences of persons and
families.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 2-14-4, 9-29-13
§ 112.02 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   Owners of property where junk yards are located shall ensure that such areas
do not become vermin- infested.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1, Chapter 11-4
§ 112.03 LICENSING.
   No junk dealer shall establish or engage in the business without first
acquiring a license granted by the City Council. The City Council may add
stipulations after the license is approved and it may revoke said license at
any time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 112.04 FENCES.
   (A)   Junk yards within the city shall be suitably fenced in by a sufficient
wall of board, metal, or masonry which is at least five feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
   (B)   Junk yards which are not properly fenced in, as stipulated within
division (A) above, are hereby declared to be a nuisance, which the city may
abate accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-29-14, Chapter 43-23
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Purpose
   
113.03   Area involved
   
113.04   Rates
Grantee Regulations
   
113.15   Grant of non-exclusive authority
   
113.16   Legal compliance
   
113.17   Liability and indemnification
   
113.18   Modification of obligations
   
113.19   Limitation of rights granted
   
113.20   Facility ownership
   
113.21   Assignment of contract
   
113.22   Poles and other structures
System Specifications and Service
   
113.35   General system specifications
   
113.36   Operation and maintenance
   
113.37   Service to schools and city
   
113.38   Safety requirements
   
113.39   Emergency use
   
113.40   Complaints regarding services
   
113.41   Unauthorized cable tapping
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. The service tier which includes the retransmission of
local broadcast signals.
   CABLE TELEVISION RECEPTION. The delivery by the grantee to television
receivers or any other suitable type of electronic terminal or receiver of the
electronic signals and other communications services carried over said system.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A system utilizing certain electronics and other
components which deliver to subscribing members of the public various
communications services.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GRANTEE. Anyone who is employed as the cable television company for the
city.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind and any other legally recognized entity.
   SUBSCRIBERS. Persons contracting to receive cable television reception
services furnished under this chapter by the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to codify the provisions of those franchises
which are of applicability to the general public. Nothing set forth in this
chapter shall be construed as altering, in any way, the terms of the individual
franchises granted individual grantees, as embodied in prior city ordinances of
the city. In the event of a conflict between this chapter and the cable
television franchise as granted by the city, the franchise, as embodied in the
aforementioned ordinances, shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.03 AREA INVOLVED.
   (A)   This chapter is related to the present territorial limits of the city
and to any area annexed thereto during the term stated.
   (B)   The grantee shall not be required to service residents of newly
annexed areas of the city that are beyond 400 feet from existing distribution
lines, except upon payment by such residents of the capital costs incurred by
the grantee in bringing service to such residents. The grantee may, but shall
not be required to, serve areas or individual homes adjoining, but outside the
city limits that may be served from its existing facilities. The grantee may
negotiate directly with such customers the amount to be charged for the
bringing of the service to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.04 RATES.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at all times, maintain on file with the City
Finance Officer a schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to
subscribers for basic CATV service, including installation charges. During the
term hereof, the city may regulate rates only if authorized to do so by Federal
Communications Commission regulations, and then such regulation shall only be
in accordance with the provisions of such regulations.
   (B)   In the event that the city has authority to regulate rates, the
following procedures shall be used.
      (1)   Before making any changes in the rates and charges to subscribers
for basic CATV service, the grantee shall file in writing with the City Finance
Officer a new proposed rate change at least 30 days in advance of the proposed
effective date for such rate change. If the city takes no action to set the
proposed rate change for hearing, said proposed rate changes shall become
effective upon the expiration of the 30 days’ notice period.
      (2)   If the City Council wishes to hold a hearing on the proposed rate
increase, the hearing shall be held within 45 days of the filing of the
proposed rate increase by the grantee. Following the hearing, the City Council
shall take final action on the proposed increase within 30 days.
      (3)   Any rate subject to regulation under the above provisions may be
increased without the approval of the city at the discretion of the grantee, by
an amount not to exceed 5% per calendar year. In addition, the grantee shall
have the right to pass along state taxes, programming cost increases, and
copyright fee increases to subscribers.
      (4)   The monthly rate set forth in division (B)(1) above shall be
payable in advance.
      (5)   The grantee shall not discriminate in rates between customers of
the same category, except to the extent permitted by the Cable Communication
Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., and Federal Communication
Commission regulation.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
GRANTEE REGULATIONS
§ 113.15 GRANT OF NON-EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the city to the grantee, and to its
successors, assigns, or designers, the non-exclusive right to erect, maintain,
and operate in, under, over, along, across, and upon the present and future
streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges, highways, easements
dedicated for compatible uses, and other public places in the city and
subsequent additions thereto, towers, poles, lines, cables, wires, manholes,
and all other fixtures and equipment necessary for the maintenance and
operation in the city of a cable television system, for the purpose of
transmission and distribution of audio, visual, electronics, and electric
impulses in order to furnish television and radio programs and various other
communication services to the public by what is commonly called a Community
Antenna Television (CATV) System for a period of years to be specified within
any given contract.
   (B)   The right to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways, and
places for the purposes herein set forth shall not be exclusive.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.16 LEGAL COMPLIANCE.
   The grantee shall, during the term hereof, except in those areas which have
been preempted by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1968, being 47 U.S.C.
§§ 521 et seq., to which are regulated by the Federal Communications
Commission, be subject to all lawful exercise of the regulating and police
powers of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.17 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at all times, keep in effect the following types of
insurance coverage:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation upon its employees engaged in the
installation or servicing of its plant and equipment within the city; and
      (2)   Property damage liability insurance to the extent of $250,000
aggregate; personal injury liability insurance to the extent of $500,000
aggregate; excess bodily injury and property damage of $1,000,000 aggregate;
and automobile bodily injury and property damage liability combined of
$1,000,000 per each occurrence.
   (B)   (1)   The grantee shall indemnify, protect, and save harmless the city
from and against losses and physical damage to property and bodily injury or
death to persons, including payments made under any worker’s compensation law
which may arise out of the erection, maintenance, presence, use, or removal of
said attachments or poles within the city, or by any of the grantee, its
agents, or employees.
      (2)   The grantee shall carry insurance in the amounts described in
division (A)(2) above to protect the parties herein from and against all
claims, demands, actions, judgments, cost, expenses, and liabilities which may
arise or result, directly or indirectly, from, or by reason of, such loss,
injury, or damage. The grantee shall also carry such insurance, as it deems
necessary, to protect it from all claims under the worker’s compensation laws
in effect that may be applicable to the grantee. All insurance required shall
be and remain in full force and effect for the entire life of the rights
granted hereunder. Insurance certificates evidencing such insurance coverage
shall be deposited with and kept on file by the city.
   (C)   These damages or penalties shall include, but shall not be limited to:
damages arising out of copyright infringements; and all other damages arising
out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the cable television
system authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.18 MODIFICATION OF OBLIGATIONS.
   In addition to any other remedies provided by law or regulation, the
grantee’s obligation under this chapter may be modified at its request, in
accordance with § 625 of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1968, being 47
U.S.C. §§ 545, as it now exists, or as hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.19 LIMITATION OF RIGHTS GRANTED.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the grantee within the city shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys, or
other public ways and places; and said poles and towers shall be removed by the
grantee whenever the city’s Public Works Superintendent or Engineer reasonably
finds that the same restrict or obstruct the operation or location of any
future streets or public places in the city.
   (B)   Construction and maintenance of the transmission distribution system
shall be in accordance with the provision of the National Electrical Safety
Code, prepared by the National Bureau of Standards, the National Electrical
Code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, and such applicable rules and
regulations of the city affecting electrical installation, which may be
presently in effect, or changed by future ordinances.
   (C)   In case of disturbance of any street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or
paved area, the grantee shall, at its own cost, expense, and in manner approved
by the City Public Works Superintendent or Engineer, replace and restore such
street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or paved areas in as good of condition as
it was before the work involving such disturbance was done. The grantee shall
not be required to pay a fee for street openings.
   (D)   If the city lawfully elects to alter or change the grade of any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, the grantee, upon reasonable
notice by the city, shall remove, relay, and relocate its poles, wires, cables,
underground conduits, manholes, and other fixtures at its own expense.
   (E)   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a permit
issued by the city, or any person who wishes to remove trees or structures from
his or her property, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving
of buildings or tree removal. The expense of such temporary removal or raising
or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the
grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours’ advance notice to arrange for
such temporary wire changes.
   (F)   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees that are
overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public ways and places of the
city so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with
the wires and cables of the grantee, except that at the option of the city,
such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and direction at the
expense of the grantee.
   (G)   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate on the same street, alley, or public place, remove from
the street, alley, or public place any property of grantee when required by the
city by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation, freeway,
and street construction, change or establishments of street grade, installation
of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines and tracks, or any
other types of structures or improvements by governmental agencies when acting
in a governmental or proprietary capacity, or other structure of public
improvement; provided, however, that grantee shall, in all cases, have the
privileges and be subject to the obligations to abandon any property of grantee
in places as hereinafter provided.
   (H)   In all sections of the city where the city designates an area where
all presently aboveground services are to be placed underground, the grantee
shall place its wires underground on the same time schedule and on the same
conditions that are applicable to the providers of other aboveground services
in the designated areas.
      (1)   Where the city has not made such a designation, if a subscriber
requests that his or her cable television service drop be placed underground,
the cost of placing the service underground and the surface restoration costs
shall be paid by the subscriber. The subscriber shall also be responsible for
the payment of the difference between the cost of a repair, and in addition,
the cost of the surface restoration.
      (2)   If a grantee places the service underground for their convenience
rather than at the subscriber’s request, or does so pursuant to a city
designation as provided herein, then the cost of doing so, as well as the cost
of restoration and repairs, shall be the sole obligation of the grantee.
   (I)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirement of this chapter, or the rights granted hereunder
have been terminated, cancelled, or have expired, the grantee shall promptly
remove from the street or public places all such property and poles of such
system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In
the event of such removal, the grantee shall promptly restore the street or
other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the city.
   (J)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent
abandonment of the property of the grantee in place, it shall submit to the
city any instruments to be approved by the city, transferring to the city the
ownership of such property.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.20 FACILITY OWNERSHIP.
   All cable and passive equipment for cable television reception service
installed by the grantee at a subscriber’s location shall remain the property
of the grantee and the grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and
equipment. Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its aboveground facilities and equipment from the premises
of such subscriber upon his or her request.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.21 ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT.
   The grantee shall never assign a contract to another person without prior
approval of the City Council, whose approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.22 POLES AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by
the grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the City
Council; with regard to location, height, type, or other pertinent aspects,
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      (2)   However, no location of any pole or wire-holding structure of the
grantee shall be of a vested interest, and such poles or structures shall be
removed or modified by the grantee at its own expense whenever the City
Council, or its designated representative, determines that the public
convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (B)   When poles or other wire-holding structures already existing are used
in servicing the city and are available for use by the grantee, and if no such
arrangements are made, the City Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby, and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just
and reasonable.
   (C)   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make
use of poles or other wire- holding structures of the grantee by agreement
therefor with the grantee, the City Council may require the grantee to permit
such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable, and upon such terms
as the City Council determines, would enhance the public convenience without
unduly interfering with the grantee’s operation.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-14(2))
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS AND SERVICE
§ 113.35 GENERAL SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The facilities used by the grantee shall have a minimum capacity of 12
channels. The facilities shall also be capable of distributing color television
signals, and when the signals the grantee distributes are received in color,
they shall be distributed in color where technically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-6)
   (B)   The grantee shall be governed by technical standards established by
the FCC.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.36 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest possible time. Such
interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system. All service requests and
complaints shall be responded to within 24 hours of receipt.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.37 SERVICE TO SCHOOLS AND CITY.
   (A)   The grantee shall, subject to the line extension provisions, provide
basic cable service at no cost to either public or parochial elementary and
secondary schools within the city at one terminal junction for educational
purposes upon request of the school system. The grantee shall allocate one
channel to the city as a public, educational, or governmental access channel.
   (B)   Until such time as the city files a written request with the grantee
for full-time use of the channel, grantee shall have the right to use that
portion of the channel capacity that is not being used by the city. The grantee
shall have a reasonable period of time after notification to vacate its use of
the channel. The grantee shall assist the city in obtaining the necessary
licenses and frequency clearance to enable the city to use said channel.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.38 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall use and
maintain commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and
accidents which are likely to cause damages, injuries, or nuisances to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.39 EMERGENCY USE.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of
the City Council, make available its facilities to the city for emergency use
during the emergency or disaster. If the city wishes to operate a civil
emergency alert system on a plan that is mutually acceptable to the city and
the grantee and provides the grantee with the necessary equipment for such
system, the grantee will permit the system to be used on the cable system.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.40 COMPLAINTS REGARDING SERVICES.
   Complaints regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunction, and
similar matters shall first be directed to the grantee’s office. Should the
grantee fail to satisfy a complaint, it may then be directed to the Finance
Officer for investigation. The complaining party and the grantee shall be
afforded a reasonable opportunity to present written statements of their
position. The Finance Officer shall attempt to resolve the complaint, or
specify corrective steps to be taken by the grantee. Appeal from the City
Council’s action may be made to the appropriate judicial or administrative
forum.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
§ 113.41 UNAUTHORIZED CABLE TAPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to obtain any cable
television services from any cable television company, firm, or private person
by installing, rearranging, or tampering with any facilities or equipment of
said cable television company, unless the same is done with the knowledge of
and permission of the cable television company. Any person found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-16 to 9-35-23
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Licensing
   
114.03   Exemptions to licensing
   
114.04   Violations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person engaged in the selling of personal property by going about
from place to place or house to house to sell the same, and who carries such
property with him or her for delivery at the time of sale.
   SOLICITOR. A person engaged in going about from place to place or house to
house to solicit orders for, or to offer to sell, personal property for future
delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm, corporation, or association, and
agents of any of them, transacting a temporary business where goods and
merchandise are exposed for sale where such business is established for
temporary operation only.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 2-14-4, 9-34-1
§ 114.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to pursue
the occupation of a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, as defined in §
114.01 above, without first having procured a license therefor.
   (B)   License for such purposes may be procured from the City Finance
Officer upon payment of the fees therefor, as follows:
      (1)   For a peddler’s license, the fee shall be $25 per day;
      (2)   For a transient merchant’s license, the fee shall be $100 per
month; and
      (3)   For a solicitor’s license, the fee shall be $25 per day.
   (C)   (1)   A solicitor, in addition to procuring a license from the City
Finance Officer, upon payment of the fee specified herein, shall register with
the City Finance Officer his or her name and address, and file with said
Finance Officer a bond in the penal sum of $1,000, to be approved by the City
Attorney for the protection of residents of the city when advancing money for
personal property for future delivery.
      (2)   No personal property may be sold with accumulative retail value
which exceeds the amount of bond posted.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-8
§ 114.03 EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSING.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to traveling salespersons
doing business exclusively with retail merchants, nor to persons who market
their own fruits, garden, or agricultural products.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34
§ 114.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Any and all violations of the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared
to be a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police, or his or her assistants, are
hereby directed and required to prevent such nuisance, or to arrest persons
engaged in committing the same, and to take them before the city’s justice of
the peace for prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person guilty of violating the provisions of §§
114.02 through
114.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one $100, together with the costs of
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 115: TATTOOS AND BODY PIERCINGS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   License application
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   Right to revoke license
   
115.06   Annual fee
   
115.07   Other requirements; minors
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY PIERCING. To place a permanent or temporary foreign object in a
person’s body, such as ears, nose, lips, genitals, nipples, or parts thereof,
for a decorative or other non-medical purpose by a person not directly under
the supervision of a licensed physician, as defined by SDCL § 36-4-11 .
   TATTOO. To make permanent marks or designs on the skin by puncturing it and
inserting indelible colors.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in a business as a tattoo artist within the city, or
within one mile thereof, as defined in this chapter, without first having
secured a license therefor, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license to operate as a tattoo artist shall make
application, in writing, to the City Council, and said application shall state:
   (A)   Applicant’s name;
   (B)   Applicant’s post office address;
   (C)   Length of time applicant has resided in the city;
   (D)   The premises where the business is or will be located or conducted,
and description shall be given by lot and block number or by legal description;
and
   (E)   Any other information the City Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing of the application together with the necessary license fee, the
City Council, if it deems such applicant a fit and proper person to engage in
such business, shall direct the Finance Officer to issue a license in the
manner provided for issuance of licenses.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 115.05 RIGHT TO REVOKE LICENSE.
   The City Council shall have the right to revoke any license granted under
this chapter if it determines, upon investigation and after hearing, that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, and providing that
a notice of the hearing shall be served upon the licensee named in the license
at least five days before the hearing, either by personal service of a copy of
the notice or by mailing a copy of the same to licensee at the address given in
the application. Should any license granted under this chapter be revoked, no
refund of the license fee shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 ANNUAL FEE.
   Every tattoo artist or parlor or business shall pay an annual fee of $25 for
each establishment or place of business.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 115.07 OTHER REQUIREMENTS; MINORS.
   (A)   No minor may be tattooed or pierced unless the minor’s parent or
guardian have signed a consent form authorizing the tattoo or piercing. Any
person who tattoos or pierces a minor without parental or guardian consent is
guilty of a class two misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)
   (B)   The city hereby adopts, as if fully set out herein, the minimum
sanitation requirements for tattooing and body piercing, including premises,
equipment, methods of operation, and freedom from communicable disease, as
provided for by the state’s Department of Health and as presently set out in
Article 44:12 of the Administrative Rules of South Dakota, being regulations of
the state’s Department of Health for tattooing and body piercing. Further, the
city shall adopt, as a portion of this chapter, any amendments to the existing
regulations that the state’s Department of Health has adopted regarding the
minimum sanitation standards for tattooing and body piercing.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License application
   
116.05   Issuance of license
   
116.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
116.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
116.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
116.09   Suspension
   
116.10   Revocation
   
116.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
116.12   Appeal
   
116.13   Licenses not transferrable
   
116.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
116.15   Liability for violations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council of the City of Burke enacts the following licensing chapter
in order to ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal boundaries
of the city operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations,
protects the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, prevents
potential conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes
certain safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of unauthorized
use or access of cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined
by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. Includes an altered state of marijuana
absorbed into the human body. Does not include fiber produced from the mature
stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant. The
term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that plant,
including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1%
on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses, cultivates,
delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis and related
supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, a
legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses, stores, delivers, transfers,
transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses cannabis, cannabis products,
paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis
products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. Includes edible cannabis products, beverages,
topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
a legally licensed entity legally authorized to analyze the safety and potency
of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operated in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is subject
to the general penalty provision in §
116.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operated in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL
Chapter 34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
116.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the South Dakota
Department of Health.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in
Chapter 152, as well as any location requirements pursuant to SDCL Chapter 34-
20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under
Chapter 152;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL Chapter 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the department as to the city’s preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensary shall be allowed to operate in the city
at any time.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
116.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter.
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment.
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
116.09 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
116.09 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis-
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (5)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officers, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL Chapter 34-20G;
      (7)   The license holder has its department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired; or
      (8)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand-
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand-delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor or Council President, Finance Officer, and the
City Attorney.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process an appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall, PO Box 250, Burke, South
Dakota, 57523. The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m. any day of the week, nor any hours on weekends nor state nor federal
holidays.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 2021-10A, passed 11-8-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC NATURE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC NATURE
Section
   
130.01   Public intoxication
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   Indecent conduct; profanity
   
130.05   Weapons
   
130.06   Offenses against police officers
   
130.07   Loitering
   
130.08   Waste in plain view
   
130.09   Gambling
   
130.10   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in a state of intoxication,
drunkenness, or under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics in any
public place in the city, which includes its public parks, streets, alleys, or
buildings open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, Chapter 22-10, 22-18-35
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of
causing public danger, alarm, disorder, or nuisance, or if his or her conduct
is likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder, or nuisance, he or she
willfully does any of the following acts in a public place:
      (1)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner towards another
whereby the other person is placed in danger of limb or health;
      (2)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner towards another
whereby the property of another is placed in danger of being damaged or
destroyed; or
      (3)   Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous
conduct so as to endanger the life, health, or property of another.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons to assemble together
within the city limits for the purpose of doing, or conspiring to do, any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
or against the peace and dignity of the city, or, in any manner, for the
purpose of terrorizing any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
   (C)   Any person or persons who shall fail or refuse to leave any unlawful
assemblage, as described in division (B) above, or any assemblage calculated
to, or which might, disturb the peace or excite the public after having been
ordered to leave by a police officer, or any person lawfully assisting such
officer, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, Chapter 22-10, 22-18-35, Chapter 22-
23
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb the peace
and order of the city, or any part thereof, by making any loud or unusual noise
or disturbance around or near any dwelling or other buildings to the annoyance
of the occupants. It shall be unlawful for any person to threaten any person
for the purpose of intimidation, to inspire fear, or, in any manner, disturb
the peace of any person, family, or neighborhood.
   (B)   No person shall use any profane, vulgar, or obscene language, which
tends to invite the person to whom it is directed to violence, upon any street
or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, Chapter 22-10, 22-18-35, Chapter 22-
23
§ 130.04 INDECENT CONDUCT; PROFANITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in a state
of nudity or to indulge in any indecent, lewd, or lascivious conduct or
behavior; or to commit any indecent, wanton, or filthy act in the presence or
hearing of any person; or to use vile, profane, or vulgar language in any
public place in the presence or hearing of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 130.05 WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person without a valid permit shall carry concealed about his or
her person any sling shot, brass knuckles, or knuckles of other material, or
any sand bag, dagger, Bowie knife, dirk knife, or other dangerous or deadly
weapons, or any instrument or device which when used is likely to produce death
or great bodily harm. However, any peace officer may wear or carry such weapons
as may be necessary and proper for the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or gun or
to shoot any bow and arrow within the city limits, except in designated areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 22-14-8
§ 130.06 OFFENSES AGAINST POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   No person shall resist or obstruct any police officer while he or she
is in the performance of any official duty, nor in any way aid or assist any
person to resist or escape from any such officer, nor assist any person to
escape from any lawful confinement. No person shall assault or strike any
police officer, nor in any way interfere with a police officer in the discharge
of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-8)
   (B)   No person who is unauthorized shall exercise the duties conferred by
law upon a police officer, wear a police officer’s badge, or represent himself
or herself as being a police officer or peace officer, or attempt to exercise
the duties of a police officer or peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-9)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-19, Chapter 22-14, 22-40-16
§ 130.07 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      (1)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstance makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct.
      (2)   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if
the police officer did not comply with the division (A)(1) above, or if it
appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if it
had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled the
alarm.
      (3)   Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a no- loitering sign, or signs, have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public, or quasi-public, sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in, or near, any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops, or attempts to stop,
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures.
      (2)   The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE shall mean an area
generally visible to public view, including streets, sidewalks, bridges,
alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles (whether moving or
not), and buildings open to the general public, including those which serve
food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to
buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-19, 22-40-16
§ 130.08 WASTE IN PLAIN VIEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or
deposit in any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds of the city
any offal, dead or decaying animals, fruit or vegetable matter, manure,
garbage, glass, nails, tacks, tin cans, or any matter or materials offensive to
the public or liable to cause injury to persons or vehicles in the lawful use
of such streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-11)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation having dead
chickens, dogs, cats, or animals of any description on or about his or her or
their premises to dispose of the same in any manner or other form than burning
or burial; it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to remove
any such dead chicken, dog, cat, or animal from the place where the same may be
found dead other than for the purpose of destruction by burning or burial.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-12)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-32-11, 9-45-4
§ 130.09 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Any person who shall in the city, or within one mile from the outer
limits thereof, or within any of the public parks of the city, or within the
outer limits thereof, keep or conduct a house or place resorted to for the
purpose of gambling, or permit to suffer within said limits any person in any
house, shop, or place under his or her control, roulette, or other games for
money, or other things representing money or property not authorized by state
law, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-13)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have on, in, or about his
or her premises any slot machine or other like device within the city, or
within one mile of the limits thereof, whether the same is played for money
chips, credit, or other representatives of value.
      (2)   Any gambling equipment, or tables, and any other thing used in
connection with gambling, except as authorized by state law, and all slot
machines used or operated in violation of the provision of this section, are
hereby declared to be public nuisance and, upon conviction of any person under
the provisions of this section, all such equipment seized in connection
therewith shall be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-14)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-5, Chapter 22-25
§ 130.10 CURFEW.
   (A)   Rules and regulation of child curfew. It shall be unlawful for any
minor under the age of 18 years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play, or ride
in any motor vehicle in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys,
parks, public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, or other
unsupervised place; or any person that operates a business within the city
shall not allow minors subject to the curfew to remain on the business premises
after the curfew hours that are defined below:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., official city time,
on nights before regular school days; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., official city time,
on nights when school is not in session on the following day.
   (B)   Exceptions to the curfew. The curfew hours do not apply to a minor who
is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without detour or stop; or
      (5)   Involved in an emergency.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   First offense: The violator will receive a warning.
      (2)   Second offense: The violator will receive a warning, and a parent
or guardian will be called to pick up the child.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-15.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
130.05(B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
   (C)   Upon a third offense violating the provisions of §
130.10, the violator will be punished by a fine not to exceed $50, plus court
costs, and the parent or guardian will be called to pick up the child.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-15.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Willful injury to property
   
131.02   Signs; injury and unlawful placement
   
131.03   Interference with electrical utilities
   
131.04   Unauthorized connection to utilities
   
131.05   Interference with city property
   
131.06   Larceny
   
131.07   Fences
   
131.08   Obstruction of streets
§ 131.01 WILLFUL INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry away, remove, or to willfully,
maliciously or negligently break, deface, destroy, or otherwise injure any
article or thing belonging to the city or belonging on any private person
therein.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.02 SIGNS; INJURY AND UNLAWFUL PLACEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall deface, remove, change, mar, in any way interfere
with, or obliterate, either wholly or in part, any sign, signboard, or card
placed, posted, extended, or erected by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
   (B)   No person shall deface, injure, move, obstruct, or interfere with any
official sign, signal, street sign, or parking meter. No person shall place,
maintain, or display upon, or in view of, any street an unofficial sign,
signal, or device which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an
official traffic sign or signs, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic. Every such prohibited sign, signal, or device is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the
same, or cause the same to be removed, without notice.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.03 INTERFERENCE WITH ELECTRICAL UTILITIES.
   No person shall interfere with, injure, break, or mar any electric light,
telephone, telegraph, or fire alarm system post, pole, or apparatus in any
manner; or climb any telegraph, telephone, electric light, or fire alarm pole
without being properly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.04 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION TO UTILITIES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, connect, or cause to be
connected, with any main service pipe, wire, or other conductor of any gas,
water, or electrical energy, or any pipe, wire, or other device for the purpose
of obtaining gas, water, or electrical current therefrom; nor shall he, she, or
they, with intent to defraud, connect, or cause to be connected, with any meter
installed for the purpose of registering the amount of gas, water, or
electricity supplied to any customer, or any pipe, wire, or other device, or
disconnect, change, or, in any manner, so interfere with any such meter or any
pipe, wire, or appliance connected therewith that such meter will not measure
or register the full amount of gas, water, or electricity supplied to any
customer.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.05 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall climb on or, in any manner, interfere with any building,
water tower, bridge, or structure belonging to the city without being
authorized to do so by the city; and no person shall, in any manner, injure or
deface any such structure.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.06 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, or attempt to take, from any
other place within the city, by fraud, stealth, or any manner, any money,
property, or anything of tangible value, with the intent to deprive the owner
of such property.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.07 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter construct, erect, or maintain, or cause to
be constructed, erected, or maintained, in the city any fence of any character
or material exceeding seven feet in height above the sidewalk or the surface of
any lot or parcel of land. The fence so constructed, erected, or maintained
shall not exceed five feet in height when the same is within 40 feet of the
street line; and provided further, no fence or any part there of shall be
constructed of barbed wire.
   (B)   The five feet-height limitation only applies when the fence in
question is within 40 feet from the street line and the fence runs parallel to
the street.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 43-23, § 9-29-14
§ 131.08 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any public highway, street,
or alley, or to make, or cause to be made, any structure, enclosure, fence,
cellar, door, stairway, or building encroaching in, or in part on, any such
street, alley, or sidewalk within the city without having first obtained
written permission to do so from the City Council, and a record of such
permission must be recorded in the City Council’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.02   Variances for permits
   
150.03   Overcrowding
   
150.04   Building removal
   
150.05   Street extensions
   
150.06   Privacy fences; building permits
Fire Limits
   
150.20   Definition
   
150.21   New buildings; permits
   
150.22   Construction materials
   
150.23   Fire outside buildings
   
150.24   Explosives outside buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Finance Officer, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of
all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; proving for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this legislation.
   (B)   Parts removed.
      (1)   Chapter three: General requirements. Remove §§ 303, 304.8, 305,
306, 307, and 308.3.1;
      (2)   Chapter four: Light, ventilation, and occupancy limitations. Remove
this entire chapter four;
      (3)   Chapter five: Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements. Remove
this entire chapter five;
      (4)   Chapter six: Mechanical and electrical requirements. Remove this
entire chapter six; and
      (5)   Chapter seven: Fire safety requirements. Remove this entire chapter
seven.
   (C)   Deletions or additions added directly to code book. The following
sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1: Insert City of Burke;
      (2)   Section 102.3: Insert City of Burke and City of Burke’s Zoning
Code;
      (3)   Section 102.7: Insert adopted by the City of Burke;
      (4)   Section 103.5: Insert all prices based on a minimum of one hour or
one day. All prices include a city employee as operator:
Bobcat/skid loader           $80 per hour
Bucket truck                 $75 per hour
Car tires                    $10 each
Chain saw                    $50 per hour
Dump truck                   $90 per hour
Dumping fees for rubble site $100 per load
Equipment operator           $40 per hour
Laborer                      $30 per hour
Pay loader                   $125 per hour
Pickup truck                 $50 per hour
Rotary mower and tractor     $250 per hour
Tractor                      $100 each
Trailer                      $50 per hour
Truck tires                  $50 each
Weed eater                   $50 per hour
Z commercial mower           $250 per hour
Household garbage charged out per ton or dumpster at the going rate of
contractor.
The above prices are subject to change.
 
      (5)   Section 106.4: Insert $100 fine and add “The cost for violation of
any portion of this code and the cost of abating any public nuisance set forth
in this code shall be taxed by special assessment against the real estate on
which the nuisance occurred;”
      (6)   Section 112.4: Insert not less than $100;
      (7)   Section 302.4: Insert eight inches; and
      (8)   Section 303.7: Insert all buildings and houses must be kept in a
good and safe condition.
   (D)   Ordinance 2014-01, the International Property Maintenance Code, 2012
edition, shall be in effect, and all other ordinances or parts of laws in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
   (E)   This section is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, and safety, and for the support of the municipal government and
its existing public institutions, and took effect immediately upon its passage
and publication.
(Ord. 17, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 150.02 VARIANCES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person wanting to build, erect, or place a building, addition, or
privacy fence closer to his or her property lines than what is allowed by the
building permit application (20 feet minimum from front property line; 25 feet
minimum from the rear property line; or ten feet minimum from side property
line, with the exception of an accessory building allowed to be within five
feet from property line at an alley) must acquire a variance.
   (B)   If the structure does not fall within the property line restriction,
or if a commercial structure is to be placed in a residentially-zoned area, a
variance must be obtained from the City Council. The owner must provide
signatures of over 50% of the property owners that own property within 300 feet
of applicant(s) property lot lines before a variance can be considered.
      (1)   All requests for variances will include a public hearing held at
the same City Council meeting as the possible approval of the building permit.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given once at least ten
days in advance by publication in the city’s legal newspaper. Any interested
person shall be given a full, fair, and complete opportunity to be heard at the
hearing, and the governing body may refuse or adopt the ordinance, with or
without amendment.
      (2)   It will be the building permit applicant’s responsibility to turn
in his or her building permit in a timely manner to meet the public hearing
requirements, being received by the City Finance Officer no later than two
weeks prior to the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, which occurs
on or about the first Monday after the first Tuesday of each month.
(Ord. 16-8A-1.1, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 150.03 OVERCROWDING.
   The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit shall not create conditions
that, in the opinion of the Code Official or City Council, endanger the life,
health, safety, or welfare of the occupants.
(301.2.1, passed 3-14-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 BUILDING REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building upon or over
the streets or avenues of the city, the removal of which will necessitate the
interference with telephone or electric light wires, without first securing a
permit authorizing such moving. The permit must specify the methods to be used
to avoid all unnecessary public disturbances and nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (B)   (1)   Application for such permit shall be filed with the City Finance
Officer or the Superintendent of Public Utilities and shall describe: the
building desired to be moved; the lot and block of its present location, if
already within the city; the lot and block to which it is desired to be
removed, if within the city; and the route of travel proposed to be used for
such removal.
      (2)   Such application for permit shall contain an agreement of the party
desiring such removal that he or she will pay any and all damage to sidewalks
or streets incident of such removal, and that he or she will pay reasonable
compensation to the city for the removal of such electric wires, as may be
necessary. As a guarantee for the payment of such damage and such compensation
for such removal, the applicant shall deposit with the City Finance Officer a
sum as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
   (C)   In the event that a cash deposit is made for the purposes provided in
division (B)(2) above, any amount of such deposit in excess of the cost of
repairing such damage to sidewalks or streets, together with compensation for
removal of wires, shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-29, §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-13, 9-30-2
§ 150.05 STREET EXTENSIONS.
   All street extensions within the city limits are to be governed by the
following.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, location, and grade of all streets
shall be in accordance with good planning principles, and shall be considered
in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions to
public convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses
to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Where, at the determination of the City Council, it is desirable to
provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the City
Council deems it necessary, such dead end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turnaround having a radius of at least 50 feet.
   (C)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (D)   All extensions to municipal street system shall be made in accordance
with applicable state law, and the cost thereof shall be assessed as provided
by law and as set by City Council resolution against the property benefitted by
such extension.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 150.06 PRIVACY FENCES; BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No new privacy fence, or any type of fence, or other action which may
be regulated by the provisions of this section, shall occur without a privacy
fence building permit issued by an authorized official, or his or her designee,
of the city, and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   An application for privacy fence building permit, available from
the city’s finance office, shall be completed by the landowner requesting the
building permit. Completed applications shall be returned to the authorized
official of the city for review. All privacy fence building permits shall be
returned to the city’s finance office no later than one week before the regular
monthly City Council meeting. Any privacy fence building permits received less
than a week before the regular monthly City Council meeting will not be
approved until the next month’s meeting. No work can be started until the
building permit has been approved.
   (C)   To be considered complete, the application form shall be accompanied
by the following additional items:
      (1)   Any required attachments and fees;
      (2)   Two copies of plans drawn to scale, showing the dimensions and
shape of the lot to be built upon, exact sizes and locations on the lot of
buildings already existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the
proposed privacy fence; and
      (3)   Any additional information, as requested by the authorized official
of the city, as lawfully may be required to determine conformance with, and
provide for the enforcement of, this section.
   (D)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant, after the
authorized official of the city has marked such copy as either approved or
disapproved, and attested to the same by signing said copy of the plans. One
copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the authorized
official for city records.
   (E)   If the authorized official of the city determines the proposed action
would not be in compliance with the provisions of these regulations, a privacy
fence building permit may not be issued. Issuance of a privacy fence building
permit shall indicate that, in the opinion of the authorized official of the
city, the proposed use and/or alterations of the existing use are in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter. Issuance of a privacy fence building
permit shall not be construed as waiving any provision of these regulations.
Proposed uses and/or alternations of existing uses which are not in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter shall not be issued a privacy fence
building permit.
   (F)   The fees, expiration of the privacy fence building permit, time limit
for obtaining permits, and appeals will be the same as the Building Permit
Ordinances 16-8A-2, 16-8A-3, and 16-8A-4.
(Ord. 16-8A-1A, passed 3-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE LIMITS
§ 150.20 DEFINITION.
   The fire limits of the city shall embrace the west half of Block 37; the
east half of Block 38; all of Blocks 43 and 44; the west half of Block 51; the
east half of Block 52; the west half of Block 58; and the east half of Block 57
of the original town, exempt all residences within fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30
§ 150.21 NEW BUILDINGS; PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect any
new building or structure within the fire limits within the city, as designated
in §
150.20 above, without first having obtained a permit authorizing such
construction. No new building or structures of any character, or additions to
existing buildings, shall be erected or placed within said fire limits that is
not of approved fireproof construction, and it shall be unlawful to repair any
frame building now within the fire limits that may have been damaged by fire or
otherwise to the extent of 50% of its value.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
   (B)   (1)   Application for permits to erect buildings within the fire
limits of the city shall be in writing describing the lot and block where said
proposed improvement is contemplated and the character of material proposed to
be used in said construction, together with the dimensions of said proposed
structure or addition to existing buildings, and the character of the roof.
      (2)   Which application shall be filed with the City Finance Officer and
presented to the City Council at the next regular or special meeting; and if
the same is granted, a permit, in writing, shall be issued to the applicant
describing the character of the proposed structure or addition to existing
structures substantially, as set forth in the application.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33, Chapter 11-4
§ 150.22 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct chimneys on any building within the city
of anything other than durable and fireproof materials, and the construction of
the same shall be subject to the inspection and approval of city authorities.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 150.23 FIRE OUTSIDE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any
fire outside of the building owned or operated by him or her when the same may
endanger the property of others, or their safety, and the Fire Chief or Chief
of Police shall have the power to suppress the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit
or keep within the fire limits of the city outside of a proper building or
enclosure any paper, paper boxes or cases, packing cases, or other inflammable
materials.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-33
§ 150.24 EXPLOSIVES OUTSIDE BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to pile, stack, or
cause to be piled or stacked any hay, straw, or other inflammable material
within the fire limits of the city; or to keep gun powder, giant powder,
dynamite, or tither-high explosives, except for immediate use, and only then
when the same is to be used by persons experienced in the use of such
explosives, within the city; provided that nothing in this section shall
prohibit the keeping of reasonable supplies of gun powder or giant powder for
sale.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-33-1
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.21(B), 150.23, and/or 150.24, and failing to remove any such materials as
are described in said sections within 48 hours after being notified so to do by
the Chief of Police shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
Manufactured Homes
   
151.01   Modular homes
   
151.02   Types of modular homes
   
151.03   Installation standards; alterations
Transported Homes
   
151.15   Standards; single lots
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 151.01 MODULAR HOMES.
   Modular homes shall meet the following regulations:
   (A)   Modular homes shall meet or exceed International Building Code (IBC)
standards;
   (B)   Modular homes will include all off-site constructed homes, which may
be transported to the site in one or more sections;
   (C)   Modular homes shall have more than 1,000 square feet in ranch style
and 850 square feet split, and be placed on a permanent foundation. The
foundation shall be to a depth below the frost line;
   (D)   Modular homes shall not have attached running gear and a trailer
hitch, or the capacity to have attached running gear and trailer hitch;
   (E)   Modular homes shall have a minimum of three-twelfths’ roof pitch;
   (F)   Have vinyl or wood lap siding material of a type customarily used on
site-constructed residences; and
   (G)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences.
(Ord. 16-5-11.2, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.02 TYPES OF MODULAR HOMES.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, manufactured homes will be regulated by
type. Two types of homes are defined under these regulations.
   (A)   Type one manufactured homes shall:
      (1)   Have more than 1,200 square feet of occupied space in a double
section or larger multi- section unit;
      (2)   The running gear and hitch have been removed;
      (3)   Have been anchored to a foundation and permanent footing. The
foundation shall be an approved wood basement constructed of two-by-six
framework and treated with water-resistant materials; or, a foundation shall be
constructed with eight inches of poured concrete or concrete block. The footing
to be a minimum of eight inches thick by 16 inches wide poured concrete, with
top of footing to be six inches below grade;
      (4)   Prior to placement of a home on the foundation, it must be
inspected and approved by the City Council and/or Superintendent of Utilities;
      (5)   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least two-twelfths’ pitch;
      (6)   Have vinyl or wood lap siding material of a type customarily used
on site-constructed residences;
      (7)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences; and
      (8)   The age of the manufactured house may not exceed three years from
the date of manufacture; or, if the manufactured house is over three years old
from the date of manufacture, the house owner must first provide pictures of
the house and get approval from the City Council.
   (B)   Type two manufactured homes shall:
      (1)   Have more than 700 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expand, or multi-sectional unit;
      (2)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in division §
151.03(B) (skirted);
      (3)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications, or as prescribed by the TR-75, issued June 1972, by the United
States Department of Defense or by the ANTI/NFPA 501A standards;
      (4)   Have siding materials of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
      (5)   Have roofing materials of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
      (6)   The age of the manufactured house may not exceed ten years from the
date of manufacture; or, if the manufactured house is over ten years old from
the date of manufacture, the house owner must first provide pictures of the
house and get approval from the City Council; and
      (7)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in this section.
   (C)   A manufactured home placed and maintained on a tract of land and
deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the adoption of this subchapter
shall continue to be a legal nonconforming use. If the nonconforming use is
discontinued for a period of one year, the land thereafter must be used in
conformity with all provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-5-11.2, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.03 INSTALLATION STANDARDS; ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure as required for manufactured homes.
Those manufactured homes designated in this subchapter as requiring a permanent
perimeter enclosure must have footings and crawl space or basement walls. The
space between the floor joints of the home shall be completely enclosed with
the permanent perimeter enclosure, except for required openings.
   (B)   Foundation siding/skirting. All manufactured homes without a permanent
perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting enclosing
the entire perimeter of the home.
   (C)   Support system.
      (1)   All United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Code manufactured homes of the type one classification shall be installed with
load-bearing foundations in conformance with the manufacturer’s installation
specifications.
      (2)   Type two manufactured homes not placed on a permanent foundation
shall be installed on a support system in conformance with the manufacturer’s
installation specifications, or with the support systems regulations in the
ANTI/NFPA 501A 1977 installation standards.
   (D)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured home after it is placed on the
site must be approved by the City Council and/or Superintendent of Public
Utilities.
(Ord. 16-5-11.2, passed 7-10-2017)
TRANSPORTED HOMES
§ 151.15 STANDARDS; SINGLE LOTS.
   Transported homes on single lots may be permitted after a hearing for use on
review if they meet the following requirements (adjoining property owners will
be notified prior to hearing).
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to inspect or see photographs of
the transported home to be placed on a single lot to ensure the condition.
   (B)   The transported home shall be on a lot which meets the minimum size
requirements of the district in which the lot is located. All setbacks and yard
requirements shall be met. Only one transported home shall be allowed per lot.
   (C)   All transported homes shall meet local, state, and federal building
codes concerning their construction.
   (D)   All transported homes shall be connected to all utilities prior to
occupancy.
   (E)   The transported home shall be provided with skirting from the bottom
of the walls to the ground within 30 days of move on. This skirting must be
constructed of fire-retardant material.
   (F)   The transported home shall be supported on a concrete foundation;
concrete, masonry, or wood basement; concrete piers; masonry blocks, or other
durable material comparable to the exterior of the home.
   (G)   The transported home must be at least 20 feet wide.
   (H)   The transported home must have factory installed wood, hardboard, or
siding with a wood appearance.
   (I)   The transported home must have a factory-installed, peaked, non-
reflective roof.
(Ord. 16-5-11.3, passed 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose and intent
   
152.002   Definitions
Establishment of Zoning
   
152.010   Zoning districts
   
152.011   Uniform application
   
152.012   Use of buildings
   
152.013   Districts
   
152.014   Zoning map
   
152.015   Sewers
   
152.016   Extent of the requirements
   
152.017   Cannabis dispensaries
A Agricultural Land District
   
152.025   Permitted uses
   
152.026   Lot requirements
   
152.027   Structural heights
R-1 Single Family Residential District
   
152.040   Permitted uses
   
152.041   Height limits
   
152.042   Lot requirements
R-2 Residential District
   
152.055   Permitted uses
   
152.056   Height limits
   
152.057   Lot requirements
C Central Commercial District
   
152.070   Permitted and prohibited uses
   
152.071   Height limits
   
152.072   Lot requirements
   
152.073   Minimum yard requirements
   
152.074   Maximum lot coverage
C-1 Commercial Industrial District
   
152.085   Permitted and prohibited uses
   
152.086   Lot requirements
   
152.087   Height limits
Industrial District
   
152.100   Permitted uses
   
152.101   Height limits
   
152.102   Lot requirements
FP Flood Plain District
   
152.115   Permitted uses
   
152.116   Area, height, and parking regulations
General Requirements
   
152.125   Purpose
   
152.126   Visibility at intersections in residential districts
   
152.127   Fences, walls, and hedges
   
152.128   Refuse and mowing
   
152.129   Unlicensed vehicles
   
152.130   Parking areas
   
152.131   Non-conforming uses
   
152.132   Mobile homes
   
152.133   Buildings moved in; prerequisites for
   
152.134   Filling, grading, lagooning, and dredging
Administration
   
152.145   Zoning map change
   
152.146   Administration
   
152.147   Permits
   
152.148   Board of Adjustment
Subdivisions
   
152.160   Definitions
   
152.161   Purpose and applicability
   
152.162   Amendments
   
152.163   Variances
   
152.164   Enforcement
   
152.165   Interpretation and conflict
   
152.166   General procedures
   
152.167   Advisory meeting with City Council
   
152.168   Preliminary plats
   
152.169   Final plats
   
152.170   General requirements imposed
   
152.171   Suitability of land for subdivision development
   
152.172   Expenditure of public funds
   
152.173   Street extensions
   
152.174   Dedication of right-of-way and roadside widths
   
152.175   Intersections
   
152.176   Street grades and elevations
   
152.177   Dead end streets
   
152.178   Private streets, reserve strips, and alleys
   
152.179   Blocks
   
152.180   Lots
   
152.181   Easements
   
152.182   Prerequisites to final approval
Flood Hazard Areas
   
152.195   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, and purpose
   
152.196   Definitions
   
152.197   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.198   General provisions
   
152.199   Administration
   
152.200   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To promote the general welfare of the population through
sound policies of land development and land management, to preserve natural
beauty and ecological balance. To this end, this chapter will prevent
overcrowding of the land with population and structures, and provide for
adequate sanitation, transportation and other community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-1)
   (B)   Intent. To place the power and responsibility of the use of land in
the hands of the property owner contingent upon the compatibility of
surrounding uses and the general land use plan.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-6-11, 11-7-43, 11-8-29
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot, with and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or
structure.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A detached dwelling designed for, or occupied by, four or
more family units.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Building and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail. This definition does not include storage, body repair, or
auto salvage operations.
   BUILDING. Includes the word “structure” and is a structure which is entirely
separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no
communicating doors or windows or similar openings.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. Includes an altered state of marijuana
absorbed into the human body. Does not include fiber produced from the mature
stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant. Does
not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. (hemp) and any part of that plant,
including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1%
on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses, cultivates,
delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis and related
supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, a
legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses, stores, delivers, transfers,
transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses cannabis, cannabis products,
paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis
products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. Includes edible cannabis products, beverages,
topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
a legally licensed entity legally authorized to analyze the safety and potency
of cannabis.
   DISTRICT. A section of the municipality for which the regulations governing
the construction and location of buildings and occupancy of buildings and
premises are the same.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
mobile home, designed for and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied by two
families. The number of families in residence shall not exceed the number of
dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   FAMILY. One or more individuals living, sleeping, cooking or eating on the
premises as a single housekeeping unit, but it shall not include a group of
more than three individuals not related by blood or marriage.
   FARM UNIT. An area of ten acres or more on which is raised farm products of
a value of $1,000 or more each year. For purposes of this chapter, all land in
like ownership being operated as a single economic unit shall be considered to
be part of a single farm unit.
   FEED LOT. A parcel of land whereon there is contained an operation of
feeding or raising animals in excess of ten units per acre or in excess of 500
animal units per parcel of land.
   FRONT YARD.
      (1)   A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a lot
adjoining a public street. In case of through lots, unless the prevailing yard
pattern of adjoining lots indicates otherwise, the front yards shall be
provided on all frontages. Where one of the front yards that would normally be
required on a through lot is not in keeping with the prevailing yard pattern,
the administrative official may waive the requirements for the normal front
yard and substitute therefore a special yard requirement which shall not exceed
the average of the yards provided on adjacent lots.
      (2)   In the case of corner lots which do not have reversed frontage, a
front yard of the required depth shall be provided in accordance with the
prevailing yard pattern and a second front yard of half the depth required
generally for front yards in the district shall be provided on the other
frontage.
      (3)   In the case of reversed frontage corner lots, a front yard of the
required depth shall be provided on either frontage and a second front yard of
half the depth required generally for front yards in the district shall be
provided on the other frontage.
      (4)   In the case of corner lots with more than two frontages, the
administrative official shall determine the front yard requirements, subject to
the following limitations:
         (a)   At least one front yard shall be provided having the full depth
required generally in the districts;
         (b)   No other front yard on such lot shall have less than half the
full depth required generally. Depth of required front yards shall be measured
at right angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot
lines. The foremost points of the side lot lines, in the case of rounded
property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the point at
which the side and front lot lines would have met without such rounding. Front
and rear front yard lines shall be parallel.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade or street grade, or finished grade at the building lines,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 50 square feet of any land, building or
structure, whether for private or commercial purposes, or both, where waste
discarded or salvaged materials such as scrap metals, used-building materials,
used lumber, used glass, discarded vehicles, paper, rags, rubber, cordage,
barrels, machinery, etc., or parts thereof with or without the dismantling,
processing, salvage, sale or other use or disposition of the same.
   LOT. Any plot or parcel of ground under one ownership, occupied by one
principal building or unit group of buildings and the accessary buildings
customarily incidental to such principal building or buildings and including
all open spaces required by this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The land in square feet, within the lot line.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean distance from the street line of the lot to the rear
line, measured in the general direction of the side line of the lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean distance between side lot lines measured at a point 50
feet back from the street line thereof.
   MOBILE HOME. A portable unit originally designed and built to be towed on
its own chassis to point of use, and designed to be used without a permanent
foundation for continuous year round occupancy as a dwelling, or two or more
such units separately towable, but designed to be joined together at the point
of use to form a single dwelling, and which is designed for removal to, and
installation or creation on, other sites.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land in single ownership which has been
developed with all the necessary facilities and services in accordance with a
site development plan meeting all the requirements of this chapter and which is
intended for the express purpose of providing a satisfying living environment
for residents of at least four mobile homes on a long term occupancy basis.
   MOBILE HOME, PERMANENT.
      (1)   The running gear and hitch have been removed;
      (2)   Has been anchored to a permanent footing and foundation;
      (3)   The footing to be a minimum of eight inches thick by 16 inches wide
poured concrete with top of footing to be 16 inches below grade;
      (4)   The foundation shall be eight inches poured concrete or concrete
block;
      (5)   Prior to placement of home on the foundation, must be inspected and
approved by the city Zoning Officer.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURES. A building or structure, the use of
which, in whole or part, does not conform to the regulations of the district in
which the same is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of any building or structure which does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which the use exists.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET. A space adequate for parking an automobile with
room for opening doors on both sides, together with related access to a public
street or alley, and maneuvering room. For purpose of rough computation, an OFF
STREET PARKING SPACE may be estimated at 300 square feet.
   PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of
subdivision is legally recorded.
   REAR YARD. The yard across the whole width of the lot, extending from the
rear line of the building to the rear line of the lot.
   SET BACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line or
street line and the nearest edge of any building or any projection thereof,
except cornices and enclosed porches, and entrance vestibules and window bays
projecting not more than three and one-half feet from the building and not more
than 50 square feet in area, and which do not extend above the first story of
the building.
   SIDE YARD. A yard between the building and the adjacent side line of the lot
which separates it from another lot, extending from the front lot line to the
rear yard.
   STREET LINE. A right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include, but are not limited to buildings, mobile
homes, fences, billboards and power panels.
   WETLANDS. Any area where ground water is at or near the surface at least six
months of the year, the boundary of which shall be defined as that area where
the emergent aquatic vegetation ceases and the surrounding upland vegetation
begins.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings,
which open space lies between the building or group of buildings and the
nearest lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 16-2-1) (Ord. 2021-10B, passed 11-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING
§ 152.010 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the incorporated areas of the city are
hereby divided into the following zoning districts.
   (A)   A Agriculture Land District. The A Agricultural Land District is
primarily for the preservation of open space, land currently used for
agriculture and considered not to be yet ready for further development, and
land subject to periodic flooding or land used for single family farming units
of one or more acres.
   (B)   R-1 Single Family Residential District. The R-1 Single Family
Residential District of comparatively low concentration of development,
together with certain public facilities and customary home occupation and
professional offices.
   (C)   R-2 General Residential District. The R-2 General Residential District
of single family residences, mobile homes, and multiple family dwellings as
well as other uses permitted in R-2 zone.
   (D)   R-3 Mobile Home Park. The R-3 General Residential District for any
type of mobile home residence allowable in the defined areas.
   (E)   C Central Commercial District. The C Central Commercial District for
business establishments oriented to the pedestrian shopper.
   (F)   C-1 Commercial Industrial District. The C-1 Commercial Industrial
District to accommodate industrial uses able to meet performance standards and
commercial uses not compatible with the C Central Commercial District.
   (G)   I Industrial District. The I Industrial District for all types of
manufacturing which cannot meet performance standards for the C-1 Commercial
Industrial District.
   (H)   FP Flood Plain District. The intent of this district is to protect
from encroachment, watershed areas subject to flooding, backwater spreading,
and flood water or overflow of streams or rivers. Land use within the district
shall be those of a type not endangered by periodic or occasional inundation,
or shall not produce unsanitary or unsafe living conditions.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1
§ 152.011 UNIFORM APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth by this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1
§ 152.012 USE OF BUILDINGS.
   No building or any part shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
converted, altered, enlarged, extended, raised, moved, and no premises shall be
used for any purpose other than a purpose except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1
§ 152.013 DISTRICTS.
   There may be one or more districts of each class, and where more than one
district of a class exists, such districts may be entirely separate and distant
from other districts of the same class.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2
§ 152.014 ZONING MAP.
   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning map, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested
by the City Auditor and bearing the seal of the city together with the date of
the adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-5)
Statutory reference
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.015 SEWERS.
   All structures used for human habitation or commercial use must be connected
to a sewage disposal system approved by the Zoning Commission. Minimum
requirements include water tight septic tank connected to a drain field, drain
field to be not closer than 80 feet to the shoreline of lakes and rivers, and
no drain area to be deeper than five feet. If a public sewer is available
within 100 feet, all such structures must be connected.
(Prior Code, § 16-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-1, 11-4-3
§ 152.016 EXTENT OF THE REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements as set forth below for each of the use districts listed as
part of this chapter shall govern the development within the said districts as
outlined in the official zoning map for the incorporated areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-12, 11-4-1
§ 152.017 CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis dispensaries.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The City of Burke shall allow up to one cannabis dispensary
provided the time, place, and manner of said dispensary comply with this
section.
   (B)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public or private school existing before the date of the cannabis
dispensary application.
      (2)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 200 feet from
any churches, residences, public parks, libraries, or daycare facilities
existing before the date of the cannabis dispensary application.
      (3)   Exemption from separation requirements. Any separation distance
requirement, other than the state requirement from schools (1,000 feet), may be
waived, provided: The applicant provides documentation waiving the setback
requirement from the title holder of the land benefitting from the separation.
      (4)   Prescribed separation/setback distances from certain existing uses
are to be measured from the lot line of the property where the dispensary is
proposed.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary dispensaries are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary in a building which
contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and residential
uses.
   (D)   Controlled access. No cannabis establishment shall share premises with
or permit access directly from another medical cannabis establishment, business
that sells alcohol or tobacco, or, if allowed by law, other cannabis
establishment.
   (E)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
      (2)   Cannabis dispensaries shall not operate on weekends or state and
national holidays.
   (F)   Documentation of state licensure. No cannabis dispensary shall
acquire, possess, store, deliver transfer, transport, supply or dispense
cannabis, cannabis products, or paraphernalia without providing documentation
of licensure from the State of South Dakota.
   (G)   The zoning official is authorized to issue permits (building/use) for
cannabis dispensaries subject to following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the zoning
official to determine compliance with this section.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements.
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the 2016 Edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 2021-10B, passed 11-8-2021)
A AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTRICT
§ 152.025 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Animal husbandry services;
      (2)   Field crops and grasslands;
      (3)   Fisheries services;
      (4)   Game propagation areas;
      (5)   Government grain storage sites;
      (6)   Horticultural services;
      (7)   Institutional farms;
      (8)   Orchards and tree farms;
      (9)   Public parks and recreation areas;
      (10)   Truck gardening;
      (11)   Botanical gardens (nurseries and greenhouses);
      (12)   Residential farms and estates of two or more acres with a minimum
lot width of 165 feet;
      (13)   Veterinarians offices and animal hospitals;
      (14)   Schools and churches;
      (15)   Governmental services.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit.
      (1)   Airports and airstrips;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Commercial public entertainment enterprises not normally
accommodated in commercial areas;
      (4)   Livestock and poultry farms;
      (5)   Private clubs;
      (6)   Stables;
      (7)   Sewage treatment plants, but not within 80 rods of a residence;
      (8)   Uses which, in the opinion of the City Zoning Commission, are not
of a conflicting nature or will not be detrimental to the environment of the
district;
      (9)   Permanent mobile homes:
         (a)   Must have signatures by petition of all landowners within 300
feet;
         (b)   A permanent mobile home must contain a minimum of 600 square
feet;
         (c)   Must be placed on a lot with the minimum requirements the same
as outlined in §
152.132;
         (d)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of
public right-of-way;
         (e)   Front, side, and rear yard requirements shall be the same as
outlined in §
152.132;
         (f)   Must conform with the National Mobile Home Association Code and
must show evidence thereof (Plaque of Affidavit);
         (g)   Must be connected to sewer system approved by the Zoning
Officer. Minimum requirements include water tight septic tank connected to a
drain field, drain field not to be closer than 80 feet to the shoreline of
lakes or streams and no drain area to be deeper than five feet.
      (10)   Livestock auction facilities;
      (11)   Requests for permits covered under this section shall be
substantiated by architectural drawings of floor plans, elevations, plot plan
showing building locations, parking facilities, ingress and egress, and
internal site circulation.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
§ 152.026 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum lot requirements for the A Agricultural Land District are as
follows.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for permitted uses shall be one acre;
   (B)   The minimum lot width for permitted uses shall be 150 feet;
   (C)   Uses permitted by special exception shall have a minimum lot area and
width as determined by the City Zoning Commission;
   (D)   The location of any structure contained in the permitted uses must be
located 75 feet from any public road or street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-3, 11-4-32
§ 152.027 STRUCTURAL HEIGHTS.
   Maximum height of all structures shall not exceed 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
R-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.040 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   One family dwelling and their normal accessory building, but not to
include mobile homes;
      (2)    Offices of recognized professions providing such profession is
carried on in their respective residence, and there is no display carried on in
their respective residence, and there is no display nor advertising excepting a
small professional nameplate;
      (3)   Home occupations engaged in by the occupants of a dwelling provided
there is no display of goods visible from the streets, and no exterior
advertising other than a small announcement sign not lighted and not more than
432 square inches in area, and further provided that no more than 25% of the
total floor area, including basement area of the building, shall be used for
this purpose;
      (4)   A sign not more than 432 square inches in area, appertaining to the
lease, hire or sale of a building or premises. A renewable permit for one year
periods for the erection and maintenance of larger signs for real estate
purposes may be issued upon approval of the City Zoning Commission;
      (5)   Churches and parish houses providing they meet lot requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit. The City Board of Adjustment may
grant the following uses provided the written consent of more than 50% of the
property owners within 300 feet of any property line of the premises is
obtained:
      (1)   Accessory building other than private garages, except stables;
      (2)   Public libraries, museums, and schools;
      (3)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged. Any building
approved for such use shall be set back not less than 50 feet from the street
on which it fronts and shall have side and rear set backs of not less than 30
feet and shall meet other requirements of this subchapter;
      (4)   Duplexes.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.041 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   No dwelling shall exceed 35 feet or two and one-half stories in height,
within the R-1 Single Family Residential District.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.042 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following lot requirements are specified as mandatory.
   (A)   No dwelling together with its accessory buildings shall be hereafter
erected upon a lot of less than 6,000 square feet or width of not less than 50
feet and depth of not less than 120 feet;
   (B)   All lots shall have access to public right-of-way;
   (C)   Front yard. There shall be a set back of not less than 20 feet from
the front lot line as to all buildings, provided that when a greater or lesser
set back distance than 20 feet has been established in any block, then no
building shall approach nearer any street lot line than a general average of
this set back distance as determined by the Zoning Officer;
   (D)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet in
width on each side of every building from outer most edge of building;
   (E)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a minimum depth of 25
feet, however, accessory buildings may be within five feet of an alley;
   (F)   Lot coverage. Dwelling and accessory buildings on any lot shall not
cover more than 30% of the lot area. Lot coverage shall be computed to include
minimum area of 180 square feet of building area or lot area for automobile
storage;
   (G)   No two-family dwelling, together with its accessory buildings, shall
be hereafter erected upon a lot of less than 12,000 square feet and width of
not less than 100 feet and depth of not less than 120 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.055 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single family dwellings and their normal accessory buildings;
      (2)   Offices of recognized professions providing such profession is
carried on in their respective residence, and there is no display nor
advertising excepting a small professional nameplate;
      (3)   Home occupations engaged in by the occupation of a dwelling
provided there is no display of goods visible from the street, and no exterior
advertising other than a sign, not more than six square feet in area, and
further provided that no more than 25% of the total floor area, including
basement area, of the building shall be used for this purpose;
      (4)   A sign not more than six square feet in area, appertaining to the
lease, hire or sale of a building or premise. A renewable permit for one year
periods for the erection and maintenance of a larger sign for real estate
purposes may be issued upon approval of the City Zoning Commission;
      (5)   Churches and parish houses providing they meet lot requirements of
this subchapter;
      (6)   Permanent mobile homes.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit. The City Board of Adjustment may
grant the following uses provided the written consent of more than 50% of the
property owners within 300 feet of any property line of the premises is
obtained:
      (1)   Accessory building other than private garages, except stables;
      (2)   Public libraries, museums and schools;
      (3)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged. Any building
approved for such use shall be set back not less than 30 feet from the street
on which it fronts and shall have side and rear set backs of not less than 30
feet and shall meet other requirements of this subchapter;
      (4)   Mobile home parks;
      (5)   Two family dwellings;
      (6)   Multiple family homes.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
§ 152.056 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   No dwelling in the R-2 General Residential District shall exceed 35 feet or
two and one-half stories in height.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
§ 152.057 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The lot requirements of the R-2 General Residential District are as follows.
   (A)   No single family dwelling together with its accessory buildings, shall
be hereafter erected or placed upon a lot of less than 6,000 square feet and
width of not less than 50 feet and depth of not less than 120 feet;
   (B)   No two family dwelling, together with its accessory buildings, shall
hereafter be erected or placed upon a lot of less than 12,000 square feet and
width of 100 feet and depth of less than 120 feet;
   (C)   All lots shall have access to public right-of-way;
   (D)   Front yard. There shall be a set back of not less than 20 feet from
the front lot line as to all buildings, provided that when a greater or lesser
set back distance than 20 feet has been established in any block, then no
building shall approach nearer any street lot line than a general average of
this set back distance as determined by the Zoning Officer;
   (E)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet in
width on each side of every building;
   (F)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a minimum depth of 25
feet, however, accessory building may be within five feet of any alley;
   (G)   Lot coverage. All dwelling and accessory buildings on any lot shall
not cover more than 30% of the lot area. Lot coverage shall be computed to
include a minimum area of 180 square feet of building area or lot area for
automobile storage;
   (H)   Lot requirements for special permits shall be determined by the Zoning
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
C CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.070 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Retail establishments;
      (2)   Service establishments;
      (3)   Entertainment services;
      (4)   Financial institutions;
      (5)   Local, state and federal offices and services;
      (6)   Newspaper and printing firms;
      (7)   Offices;
      (8)   Parking lot and/or garages;
      (9)   Apartments using the upper floors of commercial buildings.
      (10)   Cannabis dispensary subject to
Chapter 116.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit. Other uses, which in the opinion of
the City Zoning Commission are of the same general character and not
detrimental to permitted uses in the C Central Commercial District as outlined,
except that no use listed in the following division shall be permitted.
   (C)   Uses not permitted.
      (1)   Blacksmith shops;
      (2)   Coal or lumber yards;
      (3)   Metal working shop, tinsmith or plumbing shop employing more than
five workers on the premises;
      (4)   Milk or soft bottling or distributing stations employing more than
ten workers;
      (5)   Poultry or livestock killing, dressing, or live storage;
      (6)   Manufacturing of any kind;
      (7)   Oil stations, auto cleaning establishments or automobile, truck, or
machinery sales when located within a radius of 150 feet of church edifice,
hospital, or public school.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-11) (Ord. 2021-10B, passed 11-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
§ 152.071 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The maximum height of all buildings and structures shall be 35 feet if
located within the C Central Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-1, 11-4-3
§ 152.072 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Permitted uses shall have a minimum lot area of 3,500 square feet and a
minimum lot width of 25 feet. Uses permitted by special exception shall have a
minimum lot area and width as determined by the City Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.073 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No yard shall be required in the C Central Commercial District, provided,
however, that all buildings located on lots adjacent to a residential district
shall observe a yard requirement equivalent to the minimum yard requirements of
the residential district on the side or sides adjacent. Uses permitted by
special exception shall have a minimum yard requirement as determined by the
City Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.074 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage for all permitted uses shall not exceed 90%. The
maximum lot coverage for all uses permitted by special exception shall be as
determined by the City Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
C-1 COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.085 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Horticulture and the raising of field crops;
      (2)   Automobile filling stations;
      (3)   On-site signs;
      (4)   Utility substations;
      (5)   Wholesale or retail sales of lumber and other building materials,
farm equipment, motor vehicles, marine crafts, mobile homes, trailers, farm and
garden supplies, fuel and ice, motor vehicles and automobile equipment, drugs,
chemicals, all allied products, dry goods and apparel, groceries and related
products, electrical goods, hardware, plumbing, heating equipment and supplies,
machinery equipment and supplies, beer, wine and distilled alcoholic beverages,
paper and paper products, furniture and home furnishings, lumber and
construction materials;
      (6)   General farm products, household goods, and refrigerated
warehousing and storage;
      (7)   Motor freight terminals, garaging and equipment maintenance;
      (8)   Mortuaries;
      (9)   Contract construction services;
      (10)   Off-site signs.
      (11)   Cannabis dispensary subject to
Chapter 116.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit.
      (1)   Food lockers, provided that any slaughtering, killing,
eviscerating, skinning, or plucking be done indoors;
      (2)   Other industrial or commercial uses determined by the City Zoning
Commission to be consistent with the intent of this district.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted or
not permitted by special exception shall be prohibited in the C-1 Commercial
Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-16) (Ord. 2021-10B, passed 11-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.086 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for permitted uses shall be 15,000 square feet.
The minimum lot width for permitted uses shall be 100 feet. The minimum lot
area and width for uses permitted by special exception shall be as determined
by the City Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Permitted uses shall have a minimum front yard of 20 feet, minimum
side yard of ten feet, and a minimum rear yard of 20 feet.
   (C)   The maximum lot coverage for all buildings and structures shall not
exceed 70% of the local lot area.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.087 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The maximum height of all buildings and structures shall not exceed 50 feet
within the C-1 Commercial Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.100 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted. All uses permitted in the C-1 Commercial Industrial
District, and which, upon application to the City Zoning Commission, are
granted by special permit, except that the following uses shall be approved by
the City Zoning Commission after public notice and hearing.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special permit.
      (1)   Slaughterhouses;
      (2)   Crematory;
      (3)   Explosive manufacture or storage;
      (4)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (5)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, fat or refuse;
      (6)   Junk yards, including the storage of or baling of scrap paper,
iron, bottles, rags or junk;
      (7)   Soap manufacture;
      (8)   Tanning of leather, rawhide or skins;
      (9)   In general, those uses which have been declared a nuisance in any
court of record, or which may be noxious or offensive by reason or odor, dust,
gas, smoke or noise;
      (10)   Livestock sales or auction barns and yards.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3, 11-4-4
§ 152.101 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The maximum height of all buildings and structures within the I Industrial
District shall be 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
§ 152.102 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot requirements for the I Industrial District shall be the same as
outlined in §
152.086. In addition, all storage within 500 feet of a residential district
must be completely enclosed in a building or by a solid walled fence at least
two feet above the highest point of the stock pile which fence shall be
maintained in safe and good repair.
   (B)   Storage yards for junk shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from
any adjoining line and 30 feet from any other property lines, and shall be
screened by a solid wall at least two feet above the highest stock pile and
maintained in a state of good repair. Further provided that no storage yard for
junk shall be allowed on any lot in an I Industrial zone which is within 500
feet of a residential zone.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, § 9-12-13
FP FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT
§ 152.115 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Open spaces shall be permitted within the FP Flood Plain District
provided they do not require structures, landfill or storage of materials or
equipment. In addition, no use shall adversely affect the efficiency or unduly
restrict the capacity of the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main
stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system;
      (2)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry,
sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
      (3)   Industrial commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas,
and airport landing strips;
      (4)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails.
   (B)   Uses permitted on review. No permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure including railroads, streets,
buildings and utility lines or for any use within the FP Flood Plain District
until plans for construction have been submitted to the Planning Commission and
approval is given in writing after the other provisions of this subchapter have
been fulfilled. In its review of plans submitted, the Zoning Commission shall
be guided by the following standards, keeping in mind that the purpose of the
district is to prevent encroachment into the floodway which will unduly
increase flood levels and endanger life and property:
      (1)   Any structures or filling of land permitted shall be of a type not
appreciably damaged by floodwaters;
      (2)   Any use permitted shall be in harmony with and not detrimental to
the uses permitted in the adjoining district;
      (3)   Any permitted structures or the filling of land shall be designed,
constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to and
effect upon the flow of water;
      (4)   Any structure, equipment or material permitted shall be firmly
anchored to prevent it from floating away and thus damaging other structures
and threatening to restrict bridge openings and other restricted sections of
the streams;
      (5)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flood,
buoyant, flammable, explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited;
      (6)   Any structure shall be constructed on fill so that the first floor
is above the regulatory flood protection elevation. The fill, which shall
include the access to the structure from a public street, shall have an
elevation no less than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation
for the particular area, and the fill shall extend no less than ten feet beyond
the limits of any structure or building erected thereon. Where existing streets
or utilities are at elevations which make compliance with this provision
impractical, or in other special circumstances, the Zoning Commission may
authorize other techniques for elevation;
      (7)   Any structure may, in special circumstance, be protected by other
flood proofing measures to a point at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation;
      (8)   Where in the opinion of the Zoning Commission topographic data,
engineering and other studies are needed to determine the effects of flooding
on a proposed structure or fill and/or the effect of the structure or fill on
the flow of water, the Zoning Commission may require the applicant to submit
such data;
      (9)   The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not
constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the Zoning
Commission or by any officer or employee thereof, or the practicality or safety
of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or cause
action against such public body, officer or employee for any damage that may
result pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, § 9-12-13
§ 152.116 AREA, HEIGHT, AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Any structure or use permitted shall comply with the minimum area, height
and parking regulations established for such structure, and height and parking
regulations established for each structure and use in the most restrictive of
the adjacent zoning district and with other parts of the chapter which regulate
the use of its normal accessory uses.
(Prior Code, § 16-4-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-12, 11-4-1, 11-4-2, 11-4-3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.125 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the purposes of this chapter are certain general requirements
that are not provided for under the district requirements set forth in §§
152.025-
152.116. These requirements are set forth under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.126 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing shall be erected,
placed or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision
between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades
of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such
corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 50 feet from the
point of the intersection, which is the center of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, § 9-12-12
§ 152.127 FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls, and hedges
may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of any yard, provided
that no fence, wall, or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard
shall be over two and one-half feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, § 9-12-13
§ 152.128 REFUSE AND MOWING.
   In all zoning districts, refuse (rubbish, garbage, trash, waste or debris)
shall be kept within a complete enclosed building or specially designed closed
container made for such purpose. Owners of vacant lots shall be responsible for
keeping their property mowed and free of trash.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.129 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles not in use and without a current license may not be kept in any
uncovered area other than designated junk or salvage yard.
(Prior Code, 16-5-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.130 PARKING AREAS.
   Except in the C Central Commercial District, off-street motor vehicle
parking and loading spaces shall hereafter be provided on the same lot as, and
in the number stated for, each use set forth in the schedule of minimum off-
street parking and loading requirements below. In the event the minimum number
of spaces specified cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot as the
principal use for which the spaces are required, the Zoning Commission may
permit such spaces to be provided on other off-street property within 400 feet
of the entrance to such principal use.
Use or structure Minimum off-street parking Minimum off-street loading
                 requirements               requirements
Use or structure          Minimum off-street parking Minimum off-street loading
                          requirements               requirements
Bowling alleys            4 spaces per alley         1 space per establishment
                          1 space for each four
Churches                  seats in the main seating  None
                          area
Eating and drinking       1 space for each three     1 space per establishment
places                    customer seating spaces
Hospitals                 1 space for each two beds  3 spaces per establishment
                          1 space for each two
Industrial uses           employees on the maximum   2 spaces per establishment
                          working shift
Libraries                 1 space for each 500       1 space per establishment
                          square feet of floor area
Lodging and boarding      1 space for each rental    None
houses                    unit
                          1 space for each exam or
Medical or dental clinics operating room plus one    None
                          space for each doctor and
                          employee
Mobile home parks         1 space for each mobile    None
                          home
Motels                    1 space for each room      None
Mortuaries and funeral    5 spaces for each reposing 2 spaces per establishment
homes                     room
Nursing, convalescent,    1 space for each five beds 1 space per establishment
and rest homes
                          1 space for each 100
Private clubs, lodges,    square feet, or 1 space
social or fraternal       for each three seats at    1 space per establishment
organizations             bars or dining tables,
                          whichever is greater
Residential uses          1 space for each dwelling  None
                          used
Retail sales              1 space for each 300       1 space per establishment
establishments            square feet of floor area
Schools                   1 space for each 25        1 space per establishment
                          students
Service establishments    1 space for each 300       1 space per establishment
                          square feet of floor area
Theater, auditoriums, and 1 space for each four      1 space per establishment
places of public assembly seats of design capacity
Wholesale and             1 space for each two
distribution              employees on the maximum   2 spaces per establishment
establishments            work staff
(Prior Code, § 16-5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.131 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   All prior and existing non-conforming uses shall be governed by the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any non-conforming building or land use existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter may be continued even though such building, structure
or land use does not conform with the provisions of this chapter for the
district in which it is located. Any such existing non-conforming use may
hereafter be extended throughout any part or parts of a building which were
manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of the passage of this
chapter. Any such existing non-conforming land use may be expanded throughout
any contiguous land area under the same ownership at the time of the adoption
of this chapter except when such non-conforming land use by its expansion
enters into an area with a different zoning classification.
   (B)   No non-conforming use, building, structure or premises, if once
changed to conform to the requirements of this chapter for the district in
which it is located, shall never be changed back so as to be non-conforming. No
non-conforming use which shall have been discontinued for a period exceeding 12
months, shall be resumed or replaced by any other non-conforming use.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the restoration of any wall or
other portion of a building declared unsafe by an authorized public official.
   (D)   Whenever any building existing in any of the districts as a non-
conformity is condemned by an authorized public official, it cannot be rebuilt
for a non-conforming use. If any non-conforming building is destroyed or
damaged by any casualty, such building may be repaired or replaced and use
continued, providing said reconstruction shall not add to the non-conformity or
add to the cubic contents of said building as the same existed at the time of
such casualty; and provided further that such repair or reconstruction of such
building shall begin within six months after such casualty and completed within
a reasonable time thereafter; however, if the damage caused by such casualty is
such as to cause a loss in value exceeding 80% of the value immediately prior
to such casualty then it cannot be rebuilt for a non-conforming use. The loss
in value shall be computed as the difference between the actual cash value of
the structure immediately before and after the casualty. Cash value shall be
the same as that used for insurance purposes as approved by the State of South
Dakota Insurance Code.
   (E)   The foregoing provision of this section shall apply to buildings,
structures, land, or uses, except those buildings, land, or uses which are
agricultural in nature which may hereafter become non-conforming by reason of
the rezoning of the area in which the same may be situated.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this statute shall be so construed as to abridge
or curtail the powers of the City Zoning Commission as set forth elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section or elsewhere in this chapter shall
restrict or prevent remodeling, replacing, or rebuilding a dwelling heretofore
erected upon a lot area of less than 6,000 square feet, upon conditions that
such remodeling, replacing or rebuilding each dwelling shall be done in such a
manner as to not conflict with provisions of this section relating to matters
other than lot area any farther than the dwelling now upon said premises so
conflicts.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.132 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Mobile home district defined. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place any trailer house or mobile home used for human habitation, or to use any
trailer house or mobile home for living, sleeping, or business purposes on any
premises except in an authorized mobile home court. Said mobile home court may
be located in the R-3 Mobile Home Park District as outlined on the official
zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-8)
   (B)   Mobile home court defined. No mobile home court shall be constructed
or maintained with less than four mobile home spaces provided that the land
area used or occupied by one trailer or other housing unit as a mobile home
court shall be no less than 35 feet by 100 feet and the same shall be defined
by markers at each corner. No trailer or other living unit together with any
appendages such as covered entrances or rooms or porches shall be placed within
ten feet of its individual lot line, 15 feet of one another side to side, and
not less than 30 feet end to end, nor within 30 feet of any street or exterior
boundary line of the court.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-9)
   (C)   Mobile home parking space. One off-street automobile parking space
shall be provided for each individual mobile home lot. Such off-street parking
spaces shall be set aside on a location convenient to the occupants of the
mobile home unit and shall have ingress and egress by means of a public way.
Where parking areas are provided adjacent to a public street, ingress and
egress thereto shall be made accessible only through driveways or openings on
the curb line of said street.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-10)
   (D)   Mobile home court facilities. Each mobile home court shall provide the
following minimum facilities on the site for the common use of all trailer
occupants:
      (1)   One refuse collection station shall be provided for each 12 mobile
homes or fractions thereof, conveniently located to serve tenants not more than
150 feet from any trailer unit served, and be conveniently located for
collection. Said refuse collection station shall be provided with one 20 gallon
can or more capacity for each family unit and provided that each refuse
collection station shall have a concrete floor and be screened from public
view;
      (2)   Each trailer or camping facility shall be connected with an
approved sanitary sewage and water system. Laundry facilities shall be
connected to an approved water supply and sanitary sewage system;
      (3)   Site lighting shall be provided and used to supplement street
lighting, and shall be effectively related to toilet and laundry facilities,
plantings, walks, steps, or ramps. Illumination should be of conservative
intensity but sufficiently distributed to eliminate dark areas, especially at
steps. Lights may be attached to toilet and laundry facilities;
      (4)   Each mobile home court shall provide onsite management by the owner
or his or her representative at all times to supervise the management, repairs,
maintenance and janitorial work connected therewith and to see that all
provisions of this section are complied with.
(Prior Code, 16-5-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.133 BUILDINGS MOVED IN; PREREQUISITES FOR.
   Rules and regulations for buildings being transported are as follows.
   (A)   Any building, except those covered under §
152.147, moved into any use district must secure a special permit from the City
Council.
   (B)   Any residence moved into any use district must have signatures by
petition of 75% of the landowners within 300 feet.
   (C)   Exception. A new residence to be used for first occupancy, constructed
off the property and moved to location shall not require adjoining landowners
approval.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.134 FILLING, GRADING, LAGOONING, AND DREDGING.
   (A)   Filling, grading, lagooning or dredging which would result in
substantial detriment to natural waters by reason of erosion, sedimentation, or
impairment of fish and aquatic life is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-13)
   (B)   A permit shall be required for any filling or grading of any area
which is within 300 feet horizontal distance of a natural body of water and
which has surface drainage toward the water, and in which there is:
      (1)   Filling of more than 500 square feet of any wetland which is
contiguous to the water;
      (2)   Filling or grading on all slopes of 20% or more. This does not
apply to soil conservation practices such as terraces, runoff diversions, and
grassed waterways which are used for sediment retardation.
      (3)   Where more than 10,000 square feet of the bank of a natural body of
water is exposed by grading.
      (4)   A permit shall be required before constructing, dredging, or
commencing work on an artificial waterway, canal, ditch, lagoon, pond, lake, or
similar waterway which is within 300 feet of the high water mark of a natural
body of water or where the purpose is the ultimate connection with such body of
water. This requirement does not apply to soil conservation practices such as
terraces, runoff diversions and grassed waterways which are used for sediment
retardation.
(Prior Code, § 16-5-14)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.145 ZONING MAP CHANGE.
   (A)   Requirements for change. Whenever the public necessity, safety and
general welfare or good zoning practices justifies such action, and after
consideration and recommendation by the City Zoning Commission as provided
herein, the City Council may change zone district boundaries, use groups, or
the regulations established under this chapter; provided that such modification
or repeal in each instance is presented to the City Council in the same manner
and upon the same notice as required for the adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-1)
   (B)   Initiation of change. A proposed change of zone district boundaries or
regulations may be initiated by the City Council, City Zoning Commission, or by
application of one or more of the owners of property within the area requested
to be changed.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-2)
   (C)   Public hearing. Every three months or at the discretion of the City
Zoning Commission, the Commission will set an informal hearing to consider
requested changes or amendments to the zoning ordinance or zoning map. The
hearing shall be held not less than 15 days after the proposed amendment has
been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-3)
   (D)   Recommendations. The Zoning Commission may recommend approval or
disapproval of a requested change, either in whole or in part. Recommendations
for changes shall be presented to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-4)
   (E)   Adoption. The City Council shall thereafter by resolution either adopt
or reject the proposed amendment, which if adopted shall take effect upon the
twentieth day after its publication by the City Council in the official city
newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-5)
   (F)   Site plan and schedule. All requests for change in the zoning map
shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Intention. A complete statement giving reason and intention for the
planned future use of the area proposed for amendment;
      (2)   Site plan. A site plan, drawn to scale, showing existing and
proposed structures, uses, open space and facilities for parking and loading,
and arrangements for pedestrian and vehicular circulation of the area proposed
for amendment and all abutting properties with their use and zoning district
defined. Water and sewer facilities must also be shown on site plan;
      (3)   A proposed time schedule for beginning and completion of
development.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-6)
   (G)   Fees and expenses. All requests for changes in the zoning ordinance or
map, except those initiated by the City Council or City Zoning Commission,
shall be accompanied by deposit of $20 which shall be used to defray expenses
for the administrative preparation for consideration of the request. Five
dollars is the fee for submitting a request for a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 16-6-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, §§ 11-4-8, 11-4-9
§ 152.146 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement. The City Council shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter. It shall be their duties to examine all applications for permits,
issue permits only for construction and uses which are in accordance with the
requirements for this chapter, record and file all applications for permits
with an accompanying plan and documents. Permits for construction or use which
are a special exception or variance to requirements of this chapter shall be
issued only upon order by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-7-1)
   (B)   Construction underway. Nothing herein contained shall require any
change in plans or construction or lawful use, the construction of which is
started before the effective date of this chapter and which is completed within
one year of the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-7-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 152.147 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits. A building permit shall be obtained from the City
Council for any of the following.
      (1)   Occupancy and use of a building hereinafter constructed, enlarged,
relocated, reconstructed, or structurally altered;
      (2)   Any change in the use of an existing building;
      (3)   Occupancy and use of vacant land, or change in the use of the land
except for any use consisting primarily of tilling the soil;
      (4)   No such occupancy, use, or change of use shall take place until a
building permit therefore has been issued by the City Council. No building
permit shall be issued unless the proposed occupancy is in full conformity with
all the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   A building permit shall be deemed to authorize and is required for
both initial and continued occupancy and use of the building or land to which
it applies, and shall continue in effect, so long as such buildings and the use
thereof, or the use of such land is in full conformity with the provisions of
this chapter and any requirements made pursuant thereto. However, on the
serving of a written notice by the City Council of any violation of any of the
said provisions or requirements with respect to any building or the use thereof
or of land, the building permit for such use shall thereupon without further
action be null and void, and a new building permit shall be required for any
further use of such building or land.
(Prior Code, § 16-8-1)
   (B)   Application for permits. Applications for building permits shall be
made to the City Council in writing upon forms approved by the City Council and
such forms shall be filled in by the owner or authorized agent, and shall be
accompanied by plans and other requirements of this chapter. Such plans and
data shall be final and conclusive and a deviation therefrom shall require a
new building permit.
(Prior Code, § 16-8-2)
   (C)   Appeals. Appeals from the decisions of the City Council may be made to
any court of law.
(Prior Code, § 16-8-3)
   (D)   Permits posted. Building permits shall be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the premises, visible from a public right-of-way, at all times from
the beginning until the completion of such construction, alteration, repair or
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 16-8-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, §§ 11-4-25, 11-4-26
§ 152.148 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Board of Adjustment. The City Council shall act as the Board of
Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 16-9-1)
   (B)   Powers of the Board of Adjustment. The City Council, acting as the
Board of Adjustment shall be governed by these statutory regulations and/or
have the authority to do the following:
      (1)   The concurring vote of four members shall be necessary for approval
of any action by the Board of Adjustment;
      (2)   Special exceptions. The City Council shall have the authority to
hear and decide applications for special exceptions as specified in this
chapter and to pass decisions on any special questions upon which this Board of
Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass;
      (3)   Variance. The City Council shall have the authority to hear and
decide applications for variance based upon circumstances involving unnecessary
hardship under the terms of this chapter. Before any variance is granted the
following conditions must be shown as presented:
         (a)   The conditions and circumstances are peculiar to the land,
structure, or building and do not apply to neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district;
         (b)   Strict application of the provisions of this chapter would not
deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the land, structure or building
equivalent to the use made of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the
same district and permitted under the terms of the chapter;
         (c)   The peculiar conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of this chapter.
      (4)   Financial disadvantage of the property owner shall not constitute
conclusive proof of unnecessary hardship within the purposes of zoning;
      (5)   The Board does not possess the powers to permit a use which is not
permitted in the district involved;
      (6)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto any conditions
and safeguards it deems necessary or desirable in furthering the purposes of
this chapter. Violation of any of these conditions or safeguards shall be
deemed a violation of the chapter itself.
(Prior Code, § 16-9-2)
   (C)   Appeals. Decisions of the Board in respect to the aforementioned shall
be subject to appeal to
the court of proper jurisdiction within the same prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 16-9-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4, §§ 11-4-13, 11-4-24, 11-4-25, 11-
4-26
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.160 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor public way having a narrow right-of-way and affording a
secondary means of access to abutting properties.
   AUDITOR. The duly appointed Auditor of the city.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected City Council of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE/DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the
comprehensive/development plan of the city. This plan may include, but is not
limited to, zoning ordinances, subdivision chapters, community facility plans,
major street plans, capital improvement programs and land use plans.
   EASEMENT. A right to land generally established in a real estate deed or on
a recorded plat to permit the use of land by the public, a corporation, or
particular persons for specified uses.
   ENGINEER. The duly designated engineer acting on behalf of the City Council.
   FINAL PLAT. A plat of a tract of land which meets the requirements of these
regulations and is in form for recording in the office of the Register of
Deeds.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or for building
development.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The major street plan adopted as an element of the
comprehensive/development plan.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or maps of a proposed subdivision and specified
supporting materials, drawn and submitted in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter, to permit the evaluation of the proposal prior to detailed
engineering and design.
   REGISTER OF DEEDS. The duly designated Register of Deeds of the county.
   SKETCH PLAN. The sketch map or maps of a proposed subdivision, drawn and
submitted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter to evaluate
feasibility and design characteristics at an early state in the planning.
   STREET. A tract of land, dedicated to public use, which affords the primary
means of access to the abutting property, but excluding private driveways
serving only one parcel of land.
   SUBDIVIDER. The person(s), firm(s), or corporation(s) owning land in the
process of creating a subdivision of said land.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
sale or building development and includes re-subdivision. This definition shall
not apply to the conveyance of a portion of any previously platted tract,
parcel, lot or site; provided however, that such conveyance does not cause the
tract, parcel, lot or site from which the portion is severed to be in violation
of any existing zoning ordinances or subdivision regulation applying to such
tract, parcel, lot or site.
   UTILITIES. Municipal and franchised utilities.
   ZONING OFFICER. The duly designated Zoning Officer of the city.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.161 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter has been adopted to provide for the
harmonious development of the city and its environs; for the coordination of
streets within subdivisions with other existing or planned streets or with
other features of the comprehensive plan; for adequate open spaces for traffic,
recreation, light and air; and for a distribution of population and traffic
which will tend to create conditions favorable to health, safety, and
convenience through the provisions for an adequate scale of street, sanitary,
water, utility, and other improvements as land is subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-2)
   (B)   Applicability. All subdivision regulations shall apply to all
subdivisions of land, as defined herein, located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.162 AMENDMENTS.
   Any provisions in this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the City Council according to
statutory law.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.163 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The City Council may grant variances from the provisions of
these regulations, but only after determining that:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to adjacent property;
      (4)   The variance will not permit or encourage uses contrary to the
zoning regulations.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the City Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgement, secure substantially the objectives of
the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the City Council. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.164 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the City Council any violations or
lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the City Council, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations, and filed with the appropriate County Register
of Deeds.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations, and no excavation of land or
construction of any public or private improvements shall take place or be
commenced except in conformity with the regulations.
   (D)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land, by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer, or lease with intent
of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in these
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.165 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 1-19, Chapter 9-12
§ 152.166 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   The procedure for review and approval of a subdivision plat shall consist of
three separate steps, in sequence: an informal discussion meeting with the City
Council, preparation and submission of a preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision, and preparation and submission of a final plat of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.167 ADVISORY MEETING WITH CITY COUNCIL.
   Before filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall consult with the City
Council for advice regarding general requirements, minimum standards of design
and required improvement as set forth in this chapter. A sketch of the proposal
shall be submitted. The subdivider shall also submit a location map showing the
relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing or platted streets and
existing community facilities. This informal review should prevent unnecessary
costly revisions in the layout and development of the subdivision. The informal
advisory meeting does not require formal applications, fees, or filing of plats
with the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.168 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Approval. After meeting informally with the City Council, the
subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat prior to the making of any street
improvements or prior to the installation of any utilities. Generally:
      (1)   Two copies of the preliminary plats and the required supplemental
material shall be filed with the Auditor who shall transmit them to the City
Council. Such filing shall take place at least ten days prior to the meeting of
the City Council when it is to be considered;
      (2)   Following a hearing and due consideration of the preliminary plat,
the City Council shall approve, disapprove, or modify the plat and shall impose
those requirements or grant those variances in conformance with this chapter
deemed necessary and appropriate by the City Council for final approval. The
action of the Council, together with all modifications, requirements, variances
and reasons thereof, shall be noted on all copies of the preliminary plat
application. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and one copy retained
by the Auditor;
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council shall not
constitute acceptance of the final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat
shall lapse unless a final plat, based thereon, is submitted within two years
from the date of such approval. An extension of time may be applied for by the
subdivider and granted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-11)
   (B)   Preliminary plat information. The preliminary plat shall meet the
standards of design as set forth in later statutes, and shall show the
following information.
      (1)   Names of subdivision, names and addresses of the owners, and
engineer or surveyor, and the owners of adjacent property;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale. Scale shall not be less than one inch
equals 100 feet;
      (3)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines, and other underground installations;
      (4)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;
      (5)   Proposed utility system;
      (6)   Contours at an interval of not greater than five feet; also, the
locations of water courses, bridges, wooded areas, and such other topographic
features as may be pertinent to the subdivision;
      (7)   Lot lines, lot numbers and minimum building setback lines;
      (8)   Location of proposed culverts and other drainage provisions;
      (9)   Proposed improvements and grading;
      (10)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land to be
considered for sale or dedication to public use;
      (11)   Names of new streets.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-12)
   (C)   Copies of proposed deed restrictions, if any, shall be attached to the
preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-12)
   (D)   Plat review fee. A fee shall be levied for the examination and
approval or disapproval of every plat reviewed by the Council. At the time
preliminary plats are filed with the Auditor, the subdivider shall pay to the
Auditor the amount of $10 for each plat and $1 for each lot shown on each plat.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.169 FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Approval. The final plat shall conform substantially to the
preliminary plat as approved; provided however that it may constitute only a
portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and
develop.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-14)
   (B)   Procedure for approval. Approval of the final plat shall be governed
by the following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Three copies of the final plat and required supplemental material
shall be filed with the Auditor, who shall transmit them to the City Council.
Such filing shall take place at least ten days prior to the meeting of the
Council at which it is to be considered;
      (2)   The City Council shall study the said final plat to see if it is
consistent with the minimum standards set forth in this chapter. Following a
hearing, the Council shall approve, disapprove, or suggest modifications and
give reasons thereof;
      (3)   When the final plat has been approved by the Council, one copy
shall be returned to the subdivider with the approval of the Council certified
thereon, for filing with the appropriate county Register of Deeds as an
official plat of record within 90 days. Another copy certified by the Council
will be transmitted to the appropriate Director of Equalization for his
records.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-15)
   (C)   Final plat information. The following is required for final plats of
subdivisions.
      (1)   The original or reproducible final plat shall be drawn in black ink
upon tracing cloth or tracing vellum and shall be of uniform size, 15 inches by
26 inches, or eight and one-half inches by 14 inches. The scale shall be one
inch equals 100 feet or larger;
      (2)   The final plat shall show the following information:
         (a)   Date, title, name, and location of subdivision, graphic scale,
and true north line;
         (b)   All dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat
shall be tied to primary control points. Locations and descriptions of said
control points shall be given. Except where deemed clearly unreasonable or
infeasible by the City Council, these control points shall be the located
section corners of the coordinates system of the state;
         (c)   Name and right-of-way width of each street, easement or other
right-of-way;
         (d)   Lot numbers, lot lines and frontage dimensions;
         (e)   Location and description of monuments;
         (f)   Names of adjoining properties;
         (g)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved.
      (3)   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Form 1. Certification on the plat of the title showing that the
applicant is the owner, that the making of the plat received his or her consent
and is in accordance with his or her desires, and a statement by such owner
dedicating streets, right-of-way and other sites for public use;
         (b)   Form 2. Certification on plat by registered engineer as to the
accuracy of survey and plat;
         (c)   Certification that the subdivider has complied with one of the
following alternatives:
            1.   All improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
            2.   Form 3. A security bond or certified check has been posted
with the Auditor in sufficient amount to assure such completion of all required
improvements.
         (d)   Protective covenants shall either be placed directly on the
final plat or attached thereto in form for recording;
         (e)   Form 4. Certification on plat by the City Council that the plat
has been approved for recording in the office of the county Register of Deeds;
         (f)   Form 5. A copy of the certificate of the County Director of
Equalization that he or she has received a copy of such plat;
         (g)   Form 6. Endorsed on plat or attached to it the certificate of
the County Treasurer stating that all taxes which are liens upon any land are
included.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-16)
   (D)   Guarantees in lieu of completed improvement. No final subdivision plat
shall be approved by the City Council or accepted for record by the Register of
Deeds until the required improvements have been installed in accordance with
the preliminary plat and approved by the City Council; or in lieu of such prior
construction, the City Council may accept a security bond in an amount equal to
the estimated cost of installation of the required improvements, whereby
improvements may be made and utilities installed without cost to the city in
the event of default of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 11-3, Chapter 11-4, §§ 9-12-13, 9-33-
6, 11-3-1
§ 152.170 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED.
   The City Council shall impose all the necessary general requirements of a
comprehensive plan and compel all subdividers to comply with the principles of
design in the layout of all subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.171 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   If the City Council finds that land proposed to be subdivided is unsuitable
for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage, steep slopes, rock
formations, and other such conditions as may increase the danger of health,
life, or property or aggravate erosion or flood hazards, and, if from adequate
investigations, conducted by all public agencies concerned, it has been
determined that in the best interest of the public, the City Council shall not
approve the land for subdivision unless adequate methods are formulated by the
subdividers for meeting the problems that will be created by the subdivision
and development of the land.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-4-1
§ 152.172 EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   The City Council may refuse to approve what it considers to be scattered or
premature subdivision of land which would necessitate an excessive expenditure
of public funds for the supply of such services such as undue maintenance costs
for adequate roads.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-43, § 11-4-1
§ 152.173 STREET EXTENSIONS.
   All street extensions within the city limits are to be governed by the
following.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, location, and grade of all streets
shall be in accordance with good planning principles and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Where, at the determination of the City Council, it is desirable to
provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the City
Council deems it necessary, such dead end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turnaround having a radius of at least 50 feet.
   (C)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (D)   All extensions of municipal street systems shall be made in accordance
with applicable state law, and the cost thereof shall be assessed as provided
by law and as set by City Council resolution against the property benefitted by
such extension.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-30, § 11-3-12.1
§ 152.174 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADSIDE WIDTHS.
   The following conditions shall govern the designation and minimum street
right-of-way and roadway width.
   (A)   A minimum width of highways, arterial streets, residential collector
streets, local residential streets and marginal access to be dedicated to the
city shall be indicated on the major street plan, and where not shown thereon
shall not be less than as follows:
 
Street types    Minimum dedicated right-of-way width
Arterial        100 feet
Collector       80 feet
Minor           66 feet
Marginal access 52 feet
Alleys          20 feet
 
   (B)   In underdeveloped or vacant areas, the City Council shall have the
discretion to identify or classify a street as a collector street.
   (C)   Subdivisions which abut, or included within the proposed are to be
subdivided, any highway or arterial street, shall provide:
      (a)   A marginal access street;
      (b)   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property lines;
      (c)   Deep lots with rear service drives; or
      (d)   Other treatment as may be necessary to adequately protect
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   (D)   Minimum roadway width:
 
Street type     Pavement width (measured from curb faces)
Arterial        60 feet
Collector       44 feet
Minor           32 feet
Marginal access 26 feet
(Prior Code, § 16-10-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4
§ 152.175 INTERSECTIONS.
   The following conditions shall govern all intersections found within the
city limits.
   (A)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no
intersection shall be at an angle of less than 70 degrees.
   (B)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a radius of at least 20
feet. When the smallest angle of the street intersection is less than 20
degrees, the Council may require a curb radius of greater length.
   (C)   No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to either
a collector or a minor street shall have a service drive, curb cut, or other
means of access to an arterial street within 75 feet of the right-of-way of any
street which intersects such arterial street on the side on which such lot or
parcel is located.
   (D)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet are
declared illegal.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-23)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.176 STREET GRADES AND ELEVATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall govern street grades and
elevations within the city limits.
   (A)   Street grades shall conform to the following:
 
Street type Maximum percent grade
Arterial    7
Collector   8
Minor       10
 
   (B)   Minimum grades of any roadway shall not be less than 0.05% unless
otherwise approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.177 DEAD END STREETS.
   Minor terminal or dead end streets or courts which are designed so as to
have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall be
provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a diameter at the outside
of the pavement of at least 75 feet and a diameter at the outside of the right-
of-way of at least 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.178 PRIVATE STREETS, RESERVE STRIPS, AND ALLEYS.
   The following regulations shall govern private streets, reserve strips, and
alleys.
   (A)   There shall be no private streets platted within the subdivision.
   (B)   There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision except where their
control is definitely vested in the city under conditions approved by the City
Council as authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   Alleys shall not be provided in residential blocks except in cases
where the subdivider produces evidence of the need for alleys which is
satisfactory to the City Council. Alleys may be required in commercial and
industrial districts, except that the City Council may waive this requirement
where other definite and assured provisions are made for service access. Such
alleys shall be dedicated to the public.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.179 BLOCKS.
   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 300 feet, except
as the City Council considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or
desired features of street layouts. These blocks shall be wide enough to allow
two tiers of lots of minimum depth. However, where this would require lots to
front on an arterial street or highway, or where topographical conditions or
the size of the property prevents two tiers of lots, the City Council may
approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.180 LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern city lots.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape orientation and minimum setback
lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type
of development and use contemplated.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the zoning
chapter.
   (C)   Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to meet the building
setback lines established on both the front street and side streets.
   (D)   Each lot shall be provided with access to a street.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to streets
except on curves where they shall be radial.
   (F)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-43-12
§ 152.181 EASEMENTS.
   Except where alleys are permitted for the purpose, the City Council shall
require easements at least 15 feet in width centered along all rear lot lines.
Where necessary or advisable in the opinion of the City Council, similar
easements shall be provided alongside lot lines or across lots. If the City
Council deems it necessary for proper drainage within or through a subdivision,
it shall require that a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way also be
provided.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, § 9-45-1
§ 152.182 PREREQUISITES TO FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Prerequisites to final approval. The subdivider is required to install
or construct the improvements hereinafter described prior to receiving approval
of his final plat or prior to having released the bonds or other securities
which guarantee such required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-31)
   (B)   Water mains and sewers. All public and private water mains, sanitary
sewers, laterals, and storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent
the future cutting of pavement of any street, sidewalk or other required
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-32)
   (C)   Property markers. The curves of all lots and the beginning and ending
of all curves on property lines shall be accurately marked on the ground with
three-fourth inch diameter iron rods or pipes at least 24 inches long prior to
final approval of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-33)
   (D)   Streets and alleys. The subdivider shall provide street pavements
which shall be designed to carry the expected traffic and which shall be
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-34)
   (E)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters shall be placed on both sides of
all streets in all non-residential subdivisions and all residential
subdivisions having more than three lots per gross acre, unless they are waived
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-35)
   (F)   Sidewalks. Portland cement concrete sidewalks, no less than four feet
wide and four inches thick shall be constructed on both sides of all streets
within a subdivision having more than three lots per gross acre, unless waived
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-36)
   (G)   Street signs. The subdivider shall install durable street name signs
at all intersections which meet specifications of the City Council. One street
sign is required for each intersection unless waived by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-37)
   (H)   Water supply system. The subdivider shall construct a complete water
distribution system which shall adequately serve all lots and which shall
include appropriately spaced fire hydrants, and this system shall be properly
connected with the public water supply.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-38)
   (I)   Sanitary sewers. The subdivider shall construct a subdivision sewer
system to adequately serve all lots and connect the subdivision system to the
public system after the City Council has approved the size of the lines.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-39)
   (J)   Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system including necessary open
ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges etc., for
the proper drainage of all surface water shall be provided. Cross drains shall
be provided to accommodate all natural water flow, and they shall be of
sufficient length to permit full width roadways and required slopes.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-40)
   (K)   Oversize facilities. The City Council may participate in the cost of
oversize improvements within a subdivision if it is adjudged that such oversize
improvements are necessary to serve large areas of land not in the subdivision
and if the cost of such oversize improvements is an unreasonable burden on the
subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-41)
   (L)   Inspection. Each facility constructed in the subdivision shall be
installed under inspection of the
engineer.
(Prior Code, § 16-10-42)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 9-43, Chapter 9-47, Chapter 9-48,
Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-4, Chapter 11-7, §§ 9-30-3, 9-45-1, 9-45-3, 9-46-1,
11-3-12.1
§ 152.195 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in SDCL §
11-4-1 delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of the city does ordain as
follows:
(Prior Code, § 16.1.1)
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately flood proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.2)
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.3)
§ 152.196 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a recreational vehicle.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
(Prior Code, § 16.2.0)
§ 152.197 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for.
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increase in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.4)
§ 152.198 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.3.1)
   (B)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 16.3.2)
   (C)   Abrogration and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 16.3.3)
   (D)   Interpretation. All provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 16.3.4)
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This subchapter shall not create
liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 16.3.5)
§ 152.199 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
obtained before construction or development begins within the community.
Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
City Finance Officer and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill storage of materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
(Prior Code, § 16.4.1)
   (B)   Designation of the City Finance Officer. The City Finance Officer is
hereby appointed to administer and implement this subchapter by granting or
denying development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 16.4.2)
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the City Finance Officer. Duties of the
City Finance Officer shall include but not be limited to:
(Prior Code, § 16.4.3)
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to determine that the
permit requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied and to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding; and
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that permits have been
obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.
(Prior Code, § 16.4.3-1)
§ 152.200 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   General standards. If a proposed building site is located in a flood-prone
area, all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of manufactured homes) shall conform to the following standards.
(Prior Code, § 16.5.1)
   (A)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure,
and be capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
(Prior Code, § 16.5.1-1)
   (B)   Construction materials and method.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Prior Code, § 16.5.1-2)
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration or flood waters into the system;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
of them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 16.5.1-3)
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 16.5.1-4)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with or violates any of
the regulations in §§
152.145-
152.148 or §§
152.160-
152.182 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for each lot sold or otherwise
disposed of, leased, or offered for sale or lease. In addition to the penalties
described above, the City Council may institute an appropriate action or
proceedings to seek an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violation or threatened violation.
(Prior Code, §§ 16-7-3, 16-10-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3, Chapter 11-5, § 9-19-3
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REZONING
TABLE I: REZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Redefining the boundaries of the class central
                          commercial district; removing lots 15, 16, 17, and 18
16-3-4.1      2-13-2017   of Block 52 from class R-1, the single-family
                          residential district, and adding said area to the
                          class central commercial district.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cite Code Section
SDCL Cite          Code Section
Chapter 1-19    152.165
2-1-3.1            95.01
                   90.01;
2-14-4             90.40;
                   112.01;
                   114.01
3-5-5              33.01
3-6-17             32.20
9-1-1              10.15
9-1-4              10.16
9-8-1              30.02
9-8-3              30.02
                   30.01;
Chapter 9-8        30.03;
                   30.04
Chapter 9-12       152.165
9-12-1             52.40
                   31.07;
9-12-2             33.30;
                   33.31
9-12-3             31.07
                   152.016;
9-12-12            152.116;
                   152.126
                   152.001;
                   152.002;
                   152.010 -
                   152.014;
                   152.025 -
                   152.027;
                   152.040 -
                   152.042;
                   152.055 -
9-12-13            152.057;
                   152.070;
                   152.072 -
                   152.074;
                   152.085;
                   152.086;
                   152.102;
                   152.115;
                   152.127;
                   152.169
Chapter 9-13       10.15
9-13-13            10.15
                   31.02;
Chapter 9-14       31.03;
                   31.05
                   31.01;
9-14-3             50.01 -
                   50.03;
                   50.17
Chapter 9-18       53.001;
                   53.003
Chapter 9-19       52.01
9-19-1             10.15
                   10.99;
                   32.99;
                   51.03;
                   51.16;
                   51.17;
                   51.99;
                   70.99;
                   71.01;
                   71.99;
9-19-3             72.99;
                   Ch. 74, Schd. IV;
                   90.59;
                   90.99;
                   93.99;
                   94.49;
                   114.99;
                   130.99;
                   150.99,
                   152.999
9-19-13            94.99
9-22-6             52.01
Chapter 9-25       33.01
Chapter 9-26       33.01
Chapter 9-29       150.04
                   51.15;
                   90.01;
                   90.03;
                   90.17 -
                   90.19;
                   90.36;
                   90.38 -
                   90.40;
                   111.04;
9-29-3             111.05;
                   111.20;
                   111.23;
                   114.04;
                   130.01-
                   130.04;
                   130.06 -
                   130.08;
                   131.01 -
                   131.06;
                   150.04
9-29-5             130.09
                   111.02 -
                   111.04;
9-29-7             111.20 -
                   111.22;
                   111.36;
                   111.52
                   90.01;
                   90.03;
                   90.15 -
                   90.20;
9-29-12            90.38 -
                   90.40;
                   94.48;
                   90.55 -
                   90.57
                   90.01;
                   90.20;
                   90.37;
                   90.38;
                   90.40;
                   94.15 -
9-29-13            94.19;
                   94.45 -
                   94.47;
                   94.99;
                   95.06;
                   112.01;
                   112.04;
                   150.04
9-29-14            112.04;
                   131.07
9-29-19            130.06;
                   130.07
                   92.03 -
                   92.05;
                   92.07;
                   92.20 -
9-30               92.22;
                   92.24 -
                   92.26;
                   150.05;
                   150.20;
                   152.173
                   52.22;
                   92.01;
9-30-2             92.02;
                   92.06;
                   95.02;
                   150.04
9-30-3             152.182
                   92.03;
9-30-5             94.30;
                   94.31;
                   94.32
                   70.02;
                   70.04;
                   71.01;
                   71.03 -
Chapter 9-31       71.06;
                   71.20;
                   71.21;
                   71.25;
                   71.26;
                   71.40
                   70.03;
                   70.05;
                   71.05;
                   71.22;
                   71.23;
                   71.24;
                   71.41;
9-31-1             71.99;
                   72.01;
                   72.02;
                   72.15 -
                   72.20; Ch. 73, Schd.
                   I -
                   III; Ch. 74, Schd.
                   I -
                   IV
                   32.02 -
Chapter 9-32       32.06;
                   94.62;
                   94.64
                   90.02;
                   90.03;
9-32-1             90.58;
                   95.06;
                   112.02
9-32-2             32.01;
                   32.03
9-32-3             94.60
9-32-4             94.61;
                   94.63
9-32-6             53.070
9-32-8             53.053
                   53.001 -
                   53.004;
                   53.015 -
                   53.022;
                   53.035;
9-32-9             53.036;
                   53.050 -
                   53.052;
                   53.054;
                   53.055;
                   53.071 -
                   53.073
9-32-11            130.08
                   32.20;
                   32.22 -
                   32.28;
Chapter 9-33       32.40 -
                   32.43;
                   32.99;
                   150.21 -
                   150.23
9-33-1             93.31;
                   150.24
9-33-6             152.169
9-33-11            32.27
9-33-13            32.20
                   111.01;
Chapter 9-34       111.35;
                   114.03
                   110.01 -
                   110.06;
9-34-1             112.03;
                   114.01;
                   114.02
                   50.01;
9-35-1             50.15;
                   52.06
                   113.01 -
                   113.04;
9-35-16 to 9-35-23 113.15 -
                   113.22;
                   113.35 -
                   113.41
Chapter 9-38       91.01 -
                   91.05
9-38-2             95.01
                   51.01;
                   51.03;
Chapter 9-39       51.16;
                   51.17;
                   51.99
Chapter 9-43       152.172;
                   152.182
9-43-12            152.180
                   95.01 -
                   95.06;
9-45-1             152.175 -
                   152.179;
                   152.181;
                   152.182
9-45-3             152.182
9-45-4             130.08
9-46-1             152.182
                   52.22;
Chapter 9-47       52.58;
                   52.62; 
                   152.182
                   52.05;
9-47               52.24;
                   52.44
                   52.01 -
                   52.04;
                   52.06;
                   52.20;
9-47-1             52.22;
                   52.23;
                   52.40;
                   52.41;
                   52.55;
                   52.57
9-47-6             52.56;
                   52.59
                   53.002 -
                   53.004;
                   53.015 -
                   53.022;
                   53.035;
                   53.036;
Chapter 9-48       53.050 -
                   53.052;
                   53.054;
                   53.055;
                   53.070 -
                   53.073; 
                   152.182
9-48-2             53.037;
                   53.038
Chapter 10-6       33.31
10-6-101           33.31
10-6-119           33.31
10-9-7             33.31
10-44-15           32.20
                   33.16;
Chapter 10-45      33.19;
                   33.99
Chapter 10-46      33.17
Chapter 10-52      33.15;
                   33.18
                   152.160 -
                   152.164;
                   152.166 -
Chapter 11-3       152.170;
                   152.174 -
                   152.182;
                   152.999
11-3-1             152.169
11-3-12.1          152.173;
                   152.182
                   112.02;
                   150.21;
                   152.102;
                   152.115;
                   152.125 -
                   152.134;
Chapter 11-4       152.145 -
                   152.148;
                   152.160 -
                   152.164;
                   152.166 -
                   152.170;
                   152.174 -
                   152.182
                   152.001;
                   152.002;
                   152.010 -
                   152.016;
                   152.025 -
                   152.027;
                   152.040 -
                   152.042;
                   152.055 -
11-4-1             152.057;
                   152.070 -
                   152.074;
                   152.085 -
                   152.087;
                   152.100;
                   152.101;
                   152.116;
                   152.171;
                   152.172;
                   152.195
                   152.013;
                   152.014;
                   152.025;
                   152.027;
                   152.040 -
                   152.042;
                   152.055 -
11-4-2             152.057;
                   152.070;
                   152.072 -
                   152.074;
                   152.085 -
                   152.087;
                   152.100;
                   152.101;
                   152.116
                   152.014;
                   152.015;
                   152.025 -
                   152.027;
                   152.040 -
                   152.042;
                   152.055 -
11-4-3             152.057;
                   152.070 -
                   152.074;
                   152.085 -
                   152.087;
                   152.100;
                   152.101;
                   152.116
                   152.025;
                   152.055 -
11-4-4          152.057;
                   152.070;
                   152.100
11-4-8             152.145
11-4-9             152.145
11-4-13            152.148
11-4-24            152.148
11-4-25            152.147;
                   152.148
11-4-26            152.147;
                   152.148
11-4-32            152.026
Chapter 11-5       152.999
11-6-11            152.001
Chapter 11-7       152.182
11-7-43            152.001
11-8-29            152.001
16-2-34            10.99
18-3-1             50.01
Chapter 21-10      95.07
21-8-2             10.99
Chapter 22-10      130.01 -
                   130.03
22-11-4            95.08
                   32.41;
22-11-6            32.43;
                   32.99;
                   52.03
Chapter 22-14      130.06
22-14-8            130.05
22-18-35           130.01 -
                   130.03
Chapter 22-23      130.02;
                   130.03
Chapter 22-25      111.23;
                   130.09
22-34-1            95.04
22-40-16           130.06;
                   130.07
Chapter 32-30      70.01
34-16-20           95.06
                   116.03 -
Chapter 34-20G     116.05;
                   116.10
34-20G-1           116.02;
                   152.002
Chapter 34-31      32.20;
                   32.21
34-37-4            93.30
34-37-16.1         93.30;
                   93.31
Title 35           111.02;
                   111.36
35-2-1.2           111.36
35-2-3             111.36
35-2-5.2           111.36
Chapter 35-3       111.50 -
                   111.52
35-3-7             111.52
35-3-6 to 35-3-11  111.36
35-4-11            111.52
36-4-11            115.01
36-25-10           53.022
Chapter 40-28      90.01;
                   90.02
40-28-2            90.03
40-28-3            90.02;
                   90.03
40-28-4            90.03
Chapter 40-34      90.15 -
                   90.19
40-34-4            90.37
42-2-10            91.01 -
                   91.05
43-16-4            95.05
                   90.02;
Chapter 43-23      90.03;
                   112.04;
                   131.07
Chapter 43-24      90.02;
                   90.03
50-10-1            95.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
1-1-1      31.01
1-1-2      31.02
1-1-3      31.03
1-1-4      31.05
1-1-5      31.06
1-2-1      10.15
1-2-2      10.15
1-3-1      30.02
1-3-2      30.02
1-3-3      30.03
1-4-1      31.07
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      10.16
1-6-1      30.04
2-1-1      90.01
2-2-3      90.17
2-2-1      90.15
2-2-2      90.16
2-2-4      90.18
2-2-5      90.19
2-2-6      90.20
2-2-7      90.35;
           90.99
2-2-8      90.36
2-2-9      90.37
2-2-10     90.01
2-2-11     90.38
2-2-12     90.39
2-2-13     90.40
2-2-14     90.40
2-3-1      90.55
2-3-2      90.57
2-3-3      90.56
2-3-4      90.58
2-3-5      90.59
2-3-5      90.99
2-4-1      90.01
2-4-2      90.02
2-4-3      90.02
2-4-4      90.03
3-1-1      31.04
3-2-1      111.50
3-2-2      111.50
3-2-3      111.51
3-2-4      111.52
3-2-5      111.52
4-1-1      32.01
4-1-2      32.01
4-1-3      32.03
4-1-4      32.04
4-1-5      32.03
4-1-6      32.04
4-1-7      32.06
4-1-8      32.05
4-1-9      32.05
4-1-10     32.02
4-1-11     32.06
4-1-12     32.99
4-2-1      94.45
4-2-2      94.46
4-2-3      94.49
4-2-4      94.48
4-2-5      94.47
4-3-1      94.60
4-3-2      94.61
4-3-3      94.62
4-3-4      94.63
4-3-5      94.64
5-1-1      10.04
6-1-1      32.20
6-1-2      32.20
6-1-3      32.21
6-1-4      32.21
6-1-5      32.21
6-1-6      32.21
6-1-7      32.24
6-1-8      32.24
6-1-9      32.24
6-1-10     32.25
6-1-11     32.21
6-1-12     32.42
6-1-13     32.43
6-1-14     32.21
6-1-15     32.26
6-1-16     32.27
6-1-17     32.23
6-1-18     32.22
6-1-19     32.43
6-1-20     32.27
6-1-21     32.43;
           32.99
6-1-22     32.43
6-1-23     32.23
6-1-24     32.28
6-1-25     32.41
6-1-26     32.40
6-1-27     32.40
6-2-1      150.20
6-2-2      150.21
6-2-3      150.23
6-2-4      150.22
6-2-5      150.21
6-2-6      150.24
6-2-7      150.23
6-2-8      150.99
6-3-1      93.30
6-3-2      93.31
6-3-3      130.05
6-3-4      93.99;
           130.99
6-4-1      32.21
6-5-1      93.01
6-5-2      93.02
6-5-3      93.02
6-5-4      93.99
6-6-1      90.04
6-6-2      90.04
6-6-3      90.99
7-1-1      110.01
7-1-2      110.02
7-1-3      110.03
7-1-4      110.04
7-1-5      110.05
7-1-6      110.06
7-2-1      114.01
7-2-2      114.02
7-2-3      114.03
7-2-4      114.04
7-2-5      114.99
7-3-1      111.35
7-3-2      111.01
7-3-3      111.36
7-3-4      111.02
7-3-5      111.04
7-3-6      111.05
7-3-7      111.04
7-3-8      111.23
7-3-9      111.20
7-3-10     111.04
7-3-11     111.21
7-3-12     111.22
7-4-13     111.03
7-5-1      115.02
7-5-2      115.03
7-5-3      115.06
7-5-4      115.04
7-5-5      115.05
7-5-6      115.01
7-5-7      115.07
7-5-8      115.07
8-1-1      33.15
8-1-2      33.16
8-1-3      33.17
8-1-4      33.18
8-1-5      33.19
8-1-6      33.99
8-2-1      33.30
8-2-2      33.31
9-1-1      94.15
9-1-2      94.15
9-1-3      94.16
9-1-4      94.17
9-1-5      94.18
9-1-6      94.19
9-1-7      94.99
9-2-1      112.01
9-2-2      112.04
9-2-3      112.04
9-2-4      112.02
9-2-5      112.03
9-3-1      150.04
9-3-2      150.04
9-3-3      150.04
9-4-1      33.01
9-5-1      10.99
9-5-2      10.99
9-5-3      10.99
10-1-1     91.01
10-1-2     91.01
10-1-3     91.03
10-1-4     91.02
10-1-5     91.04
10-1-6     91.05
11-1-1     130.01
11-1-2     130.02
11-1-3     130.02
11-1-4     130.02
11-1-5     130.03
11-1-6     130.04
11-1-7     130.05
11-1-8     130.06
11-1-9     130.06
11-1-10    130.07
11-1-11    130.08
11-1-12    130.08
11-1-13    130.09
11-1-14    130.09
11-1-15.1  130.10;
           130.99
11-2-1     131.01
11-2-2     131.02
11-2-3     131.02
11-2-4     131.03
11-2-5     131.04
11-2-6     131.05
11-2-7     131.06
11-2-8     131.07
11-2-9     131.08
12-1-1     90.03
12-1-2     92.02
12-1-3     92.01
12-1-6     70.02
12-1-7     70.02
12-1-8     70.02
12-2-3     92.20
12-2-4     92.21
12-2-5     92.22
12-2-6     92.23
12-2-7     92.03
12-2-8     92.04
12-2-9     92.07
12-2-10    92.07
12-2-11    92.24
12-3-1     92.26
12-3-2     92.25
12-3-4     92.05
12-3-5     92.05
12-3-6     92.06
12-4-1     150.05
13-1-1     70.01
13-1-2     53.073
13-1-3     53.073
13-1-4     70.01
13-1-5     70.02
13-1-9     71.20
13-1-10    71.21
13-1-11    71.02
13-1-12    72.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. I
13-1-13    71.04
13-1-14    71.01
13-1-15    71.01
13-1-16    71.06
13-1-17    72.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. I
13-1-18    71.03
13-1-19    71.25
13-1-20    70.04
13-1-21    71.04
13-1-22    71.26
13-1-23    70.03
13-1-24    71.05
13-1-25    71.06
13-1-26    72.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. II
13-1-27    71.40
13-1-28    71.22
13-1-29    71.05
13-1-30    71.23
13-1-31    71.24
13-1-32    70.05
           70.99;
           71.99;
13-1-33    72.99; Ch. 73, Schd.
           I -
           II
13-2-2     71.41
13-2-3     72.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. III
           71.99;
13-2-4     72.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. III
13-3-1     72.01
13-3-2     72.15
13-3-3     72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. I
13-3-4     72.17
13-3-5     72.16
13-3-6     72.02
13-3-7     72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. II
13-3-8     72.20
13-3-9     72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. III
13-3-10    72.17
13-3-11    72.18
13-3-12    72.18
13-3-13    72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. IV
13-3-14    72.17
13-3-15    72.19
13-3-16    72.17
13-3-17    71.06
13-3-18    72.02
           72.99; Ch. 74, Schd.
13-3-19    I -
           IV
14-1-1     95.01
14-1-3     95.02
14-1-2     95.01
14-1-4     95.02
14-1-5     95.03
14-1-6     95.04
14-1-7     95.06
14-1-8     95.06
14-1-9     95.07
14-1-10    95.07
14-1-11    95.01
14-1-12    95.08
14-1-13    95.05
14-2-1     94.30
14-2-2     94.31
14-2-3     94.31
14-2-4     94.32
15-1-1     50.01
15-1-2     50.02
15-1-3     50.03
15-1-4.1   50.17
15-1-5     50.01
15-1-6     50.15
15-1-7     50.16
15-1-8.1   50.18
15-1-9     50.19
15-1-10    50.20
15-2-2     51.19
15-2-3     51.01
15-2-4     51.01
15-2-5     51.03
15-2-6     51.16;
           51.99
15-2-7     51.17;
           51.99
15-2-8     51.99
15-2-9     51.03
15-2-10    51.15
15-3-1     52.01
15-3-2     52.01
15-3-3     52.01
15-3-4     52.03
15-3-5     52.03
15-3-6     52.03
15-3-7     52.40
15-3-8     52.55
15-3-9     52.40
15-3-10    52.20
15-3-11    52.20
15-3-12    52.57
15-3-13    52.06
15-3-14    52.56
15-3-14.1  52.61
15-3-15    52.20
15-3-16    52.04
15-3-17    52.43
15-3-18    52.43
15-3-19    52.59
15-3-20    52.02
15-3-21    52.60
15-3-22    52.42
15-3-23    52.04
15-3-24    52.04
15-3-25    52.41
15-3-26    52.04
15-3-27    52.05
15-3-28    52.58
15-3-29    52.62
15-3-30    52.62
15-3-31    52.22
15-3-32    52.24
15-3-33    52.22
15-3-34    52.44
15-3-35    52.23
15-4-1     53.001
15-4-2     53.003
15-4-3     53.035
15-4-4     53.072
15-4-5     53.072
15-4-6     53.070
15-4-7     53.070
15-4-8     53.071
15-4-9     53.003
15-4-10    53.073
15-4-11    53.002
15-4-12    53.036
15-4-13    53.052
15-4-14    53.053
15-4-15    53.070
15-4-16    53.052
15-4-17    53.051
15-4-18    53.051
15-4-19    53.035
15-4-20    53.035
15-4-21    53.036
15-4-22    53.004
15-4-23    53.004
15-4-24    53.015
15-4-25    53.016
15-4-26    53.017
15-4-27    53.018
15-4-28    53.019
15-4-29    53.020
15-4-30    53.022
15-4-31    53.021
15-4-32    53.022
15-4-33    53.054
15-4-34    53.054
15-4-35    53.050
15-4-36    53.055
15-4-37    53.002
15-4-38    53.037
15-4-39    53.038
15-5-1     113.01
15-5-2     113.15
15-5-3     113.16
15-5-4     113.03
15-5-5     113.17
15-5-6     113.35
15-5-7     113.35
15-5-8     113.36
15-5-9     113.37
15-5-10    113.39
15-5-11    113.38
15-5-12    113.19
15-5-13    113.20
15-5-14    113.21
15-5-14(2) 113.22
15-5-16    113.04
15-5-17    113.40
15-5-18    113.18
15-5-22    113.41
15-5-23    113.02
16-1-1     152.001
16-1-2     152.001
16-2-1     152.002
16-3-1     152.010
16-3-2     152.011
16-3-3     152.012
16-3-4     152.013
16-3-5     152.014
16-3-6     152.015
16-4-1     152.016
16-4-2     152.025
16-4-3     152.026
16-4-4     152.027
16-4-5     152.040
16-4-6     152.041
16-4-7     152.042
16-4-8     152.055
16-4-9     152.056
16-4-10    152.057
16-4-11    152.070
16-4-12    152.071
16-4-13    152.072
16-4-14    152.073
16-4-15    152.074
16-4-16    152.085
16-4-17    152.086
16-4-18    152.087
16-4-19    152.100
16-4-20    152.101
16-4-21    152.102
16-4-22    152.115
16-4-23    152.116
16-5-1     152.125
16-5-2     152.126
16-5-3     152.127
16-5-4     152.128
16-5-5     152.129
16-5-6     152.130
16-5-7     152.131
16-5-8     152.132
16-5-9     152.132
16-5-10    152.132
16-5-11    152.132
16-5-12    152.133
16-5-13    152.134
16-5-14    152.134
16-6-1     152.145
16-6-2     152.145
16-6-3     152.145
16-6-4     152.145
16-6-5     152.145
16-6-6     152.145
16-6-7     152.145
16-7-1     152.146
16-7-2     152.146
16-7-3     152.999
16-8-1     152.147
16-8-2     152.147
16-8-3     152.147
16-8-4     152.147
16-9-1     152.148
16-9-2     152.148
16-9-3     152.148
16-10-1    152.160
16-10-2    152.161
16-10-3    152.161
16-10-4    152.162
16-10-5    152.163
16-10-6    152.164
16-10-7    152.999
16-10-8    152.165
16-10-9    152.166
16-10-10   152.167
16-10-11   152.168
16-10-12   152.168
16-10-13   152.168
16-10-14   152.169
16-10-15   152.169
16-10-16   152.169
16-10-17   152.169
16-10-18   152.170
16-10-19   152.171
16-10-20   152.172
16-10-21   152.173
16-10-22   152.174
16-10-23   152.175
16-10-24   152.176
16-10-25   152.177
16-10-26   152.178
16-10-27   152.179
16-10-29   152.180
16-10-30   152.181
16-10-31   152.182
16-10-32   152.182
16-10-33   152.182
16-10-34   152.182
16-10-35   152.182
16-10-36   152.182
16-10-37   152.182
16-10-38   152.182
16-10-39   152.182
16-10-40   152.182
16-10-41   152.182
16-10-42   152.182
16.1.1     152.195
16.1.2     152.195
16.1.3     152.195
16.1.4     152.197
16.2.0     152.196
16.3.1     152.198
16.3.2     152.198
16.3.3     152.198
16.3.4     152.198
16.3.5     152.198
16.4.1     152.199
16.4.2     152.199
16.4.3     152.199
16.4.3-1   152.199
16.5.1     152.200
16.5.1-1   152.200
16.5.1-2   152.200
16.5.1-3   152.200
16.5.1-4   152.200
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
17-1-1     - -          94.01
15-2-15    6-1-2009    51.04
15-2-11.1  5-17-2010   51.19
15-3-36.1  5-17-2010   52.25
4-2-G      6-7-2010    94.33
2-4-2(a)   12-13-2010  90.02
17         7-14-2014   150.01
6-5-1.1    8-11-2014   93.15;
                       93.16
15-2-14.2  12-16-2014  51.18
301.2.1    3-14-2016   150.03
16-3-4.1   2-13-2017   TSO Table I
15-4-38.7  3-13-2017   53.037
16-5-11.2  7-10-2017   151.01 -
                       151.03
16-5-11.3  7-10-2017   151.15
16-10-44   11-13-2018  33.02
7-3-3.1    6-10-2019   111.37
15-2-11.10 10-7-2019   51.02
16-8A-1.1  2-10-2020   150.02
15-3-37.7  12-14-2020  52.23
16-8A-1A   3-8-2021    150.06
15.3-37.7A 7-12-2021   52.23
                       116.01 -
2021-10A   11-8-2021   116.15;
                       116.99
                       152.002;
2021-10B   11-8-2021   152.017;
                       152.070;
                       152.085
2021-12-13 1-10-2022   Adopting Ordinance
51.18.1    9-12-2022   51.18
2023-71.07 8-14-2023   71.07
90.03.1    12-11-2023  72.21
90.38      12-11-2023  90.38
- -        3-11-2024   52.23
- -        3-11-2024   52.037
- -        4-8-2024    50.17
- -        4-8-2024    50.18
- -        4-8-2024    50.21
90.35      6-10-2024   90.35
                      
 
