DAKOTA DUNES COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT,
SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the district, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Dakota Dunes Community Improvement District Code,” for which designation “code
of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title,
chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained
in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of the Dakota Dunes
Community Improvement District.
      COUNTY. Union County, South Dakota.
      DISTRICT. The Dakota Dunes Community Improvement District.
      DISTRICT MANAGER. The District Manager of the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District.
      FINANCE OFFICER. The Finance Officer of the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of South Dakota.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this district exercising
the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of
any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
of Supervisors refers to any board, committee or officer, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, committee or officer, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining
in force for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (SDCL § 9-1-1)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This district shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see SDCL § 9-1-1
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the district published and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
TITLE 2: BUILDINGS
   Chapter
      
20.   BUILDING CODE
      
21.   MECHANICAL CODE
      
22.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
23.   PLUMBING CODE
      
24.   INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
25.   ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 20: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
20.01   Adopted
   
20.02   Conflicts
   
20.03   Definitions
   
20.04   Amendments
   
20.05   Enforcement
   
20.06   Procedure of Board of Appeals
   
20.07   Judicial review; exhaustion of remedies
 
   
20.99   Penalty
§ 20.01 ADOPTED.
   The 2012 Edition of the International Building Code, including Appendix C
and Appendix I as published by the International Code Council, Inc. and
amendments and additions thereto as provided in this chapter are hereby adopted
as the Building Code by the district for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all building and
structures in the district providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefore. The whole Code thereof has been adopted except such portions
as may be deleted, modified or amended as hereinafter set out or later adopted.
The Finance Officer shall keep and maintain a master copy of said Code,
including all future deletions, modifications and amendments which may be
adopted. The minimum building standards in the 2012 Edition of the
International Building Code and amendments thereto shall be applied to any
building permit issued after January 1, 2015.
(Prior Code, § 3-16) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 20.02 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Code adopted by
this chapter, and applicable provisions of this code of ordinances, the Dakota
Dunes Building Design Guidelines, state law or district ordinance, rule or
regulation, the provisions of this code of ordinances, the Dakota Dunes
Building Design Guidelines, state law or district rule, regulation or ordinance
shall prevail and be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 3-17) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 20.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Supervisors of the district.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The District Manager or his or her designee of the
district.
(Prior Code, § 3-18) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 20.04 AMENDMENTS.
   The following amendments to the Building Code are hereby made and
incorporated into such Building Code as filed.
   (A)   Registered professionals. The official stamp of a state registered
professional architect or engineer upon the required plans shall serve in lieu
of a plan check of engineering factors by the Building Official.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Building Official. The Building Official is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this Code. The
Building Official shall have the power to render interpretations of this Code
and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to this Code as he
or she may deem necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions
of this Code. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in
conformity with the intent and purpose of this Code.
   (C)   Board of Appeals. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this Code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals consisting of those persons who are members of the
Board of Supervisors. The Building Official shall be an ex officio member of
and shall act as secretary to said Board, but shall have no vote upon any
matter before the Board. The Board of Appeals shall have authority to retain
and rely on consultants having experience and training upon the matters of
building construction in question. The Board shall adopt rules and procedures
for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in
writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building Official.
   (D)   Building permits. 
      (1)   The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data
filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the Building Official.
Such plans shall have already been reviewed and approved by the Design Review
Committee and received preliminary approval from the county for compliance with
zoning and floodplain requirements. If the Building Official finds that the
work described in an application for a permit and the plans, specifications and
other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of this Code and other
pertinent laws and ordinances, and that all fees have been paid, he or she
shall issue a conditional permit therefore to the applicant. The applicant
shall then obtain a building permit from the county.
      (2)   When the Building Official issues the permit where plans are
required, he or she shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and
specifications “APPROVED.” Such approved plans and specifications shall not be
changed, modified or altered without authorizations from the Building Official,
and all work regulated by this Code shall be done in accordance with the
approved plans.
      (3)   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of
part of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for
the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved; provided
adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of this Code. The holder of such permit shall proceed at
his or her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire building
or structure will be granted.
   (E)   Plan review fees.
      (1)   When a plan or other data is required to be submitted, a plan
review fee may be paid at the time of submitting plans and specifications for
review. Said plan review fee shall be set by the Board of Supervisors by
resolution. The plan review fees specified in this division (E)(1) are separate
fees from the permit fee and the building permit fee required by the county. A
copy of the fee resolution shall be kept on file at the office of the District
Manager.
      (2)   Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require additional
plan review, an additional plan review fee may be charged at the rate shown in
Table 3-A.
   (F)   Building permit fees.
      (1)   Table 3-A may be revised from time to time by resolution of Board
of Supervisors. Said fees shall be published in accordance with SDCL § 7-25A-
36. A copy of the building permit fee schedule shall be kept on file with the
District Manager at the office of the district.
      (2)   All permits and permit fees provided for in the Appendix to the
Building Code are deleted. The issuance of the building permit shall satisfy
the requirement for a permit under any appendix and no additional fee shall be
charged beyond the fee schedule set forth in Table 3-A.
   (G)   Building permit fee delinquencies. The Building Official may refuse to
perform a plan review or to issue permits or conduct inspections for any person
whose account is delinquent.
   (H)   Certificate of occupancy. After the Building Official inspects the
building and issues the certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall not
occupy the building until a certificate of zoning compliance is obtained from
the County Planning and Zoning Officer.
   (I)   General construction requirements.
      (1)   Section R302.1 Exterior Walls - Exception 2 is amended to read:
Detached garages accessory to a dwelling are not required to provide wall
protection when the building area does not exceed 1,000 square feet and the
exterior wall is located not less than three feet from the property line. Roof
eave projections shall extend not less than 12 inches to a property line.
      (2)   Section R310.1 Emergency Escape and Rescue Required is amended by
adding the following sentence to the section: In basements, the sill height of
an emergency escape and rescue opening may be measured from an elevated
landing; provided the landing is not less than 36 inches in width and not less
than 20 inches out from the exterior wall, and not more than 24 inches in
height. The elevated landing and its supporting structure shall be permanently
affixed to the wall and floor below the openable emergency escape and rescue
window.
      (3)   Section R404.1 Concrete and Masonry Foundation Walls - paragraph 2
is amended to read: Floor joists and blocking shall be connected to the sill
plate at the top of the wall with three 8d nails toe nailed to the sill or
girder.
      (4)   Paragraph 3 is amended to read: Sills plates shall be bolted to the
foundation or foundation wall with not less than one-half inch nominal diameter
steel bolts embedded at least seven inches into the concrete or masonry and
spaced not more than four feet apart. There shall be a minimum of two bolts per
piece with one bolt located within 12 inches of each end of each piece. A
properly sized nut and washer shall be tightened on each bolt to the plate.
      (5)   Paragraph 5 is deleted.
      (6)   Section 903.4.2 Alarms is amended to read: Approved audible devices
shall be connected to every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler water
flow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a
single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the system. Alarm
devices shall be provided on the exterior of the building in an approved
location. Approved audible visual alarms to alert the occupants of the building
shall be installed throughout the building in accordance with NFPA 72 and as
required by the authority having jurisdiction. Where a fire alarm system is
installed, activation of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate the
buildings fire alarm system.
      (7)   Section R907.3 Re-covering Versus Replacement - paragraph 4 is
deleted.
      (8)   Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria is amended
by inserting the following climate and geographical design criteria. The
following table shall be applicable to the general design requirements of the
2006 International Residential Code and 2006 International Building Code.
 
Ground Snow  Wind Speed    Seismic    Weathering   Frost Line
Load         (mph)         Design     (Concrete    Depth        Termite Damage
                           Capacity   Masonry)
35           90            A          Severe       42 inches    Slight
Decay Damage Winter Design Ice Shield Flood Hazard Air Freezing Mean Annual
             Temperature   Required   NFIP Adopted Index        Temperature
Slight       -7ºF         Yes        1979         2000         48.3ºF
 
      (9)   Table R403.1 Minimum Width of Concrete or Masonry Footings - all
tables shall be replaced with the following.
 
Spread Footings - Single Story Light Frame Construction Only
                                                         Minimum Depth of
Number of Floors Width of Footings Thickness of Footings Foundation Below
Supported by     (Inches)          (Inches)              Natural Surface of
Foundation                                               Ground or Finish Grade
                                                         (Inches)
1                16                8                     42
2                16                8                     42
3                20                12                    42
Notes:
1.   Foundations may support a roof in addition to the stipulated number of
floors.
2.   Foundations supporting only roofs shall be as required for supporting one
floor.
3.   The ground under the floor is permitted to be excavated to the footings
top elevation.
4.   All footings shall have at least two #4 reinforcement bars parallel with
footings.
 
 
Trench Footings - Single Story Light Frame Construction
                               Minimum Depth of
Number of Floors Minimum Width Foundation Below                  Minimum
Supported by     of Footings   Natural Surface  Minimum Vertical Horizontal
Foundation       (Inches)      of Ground or     Reinforcement    Reinforcement
                               Finish Grade
                               (Inches)
1                8             2                #4 at 48" o.c.   #4 top and
                                                                 bottom
Notes:
1.   Foundations may support a roof in addition to the stipulated number of
floors.
2.   Soil bearing pressure shall be a minimum of 2,000 psi.
3.   Structural spans shall not exceed 16 feet.
 
      (10)   Table 1805.4.2 Floors Supporting Walls of Light Frame Construction
- is amended by adding the following table.
 
Monolithic Slab Footings - Group U (Utility) Type Structures Only
Minimum       Minimum Width of Minimum Depth of Minimum           Minimum Floor
Building Area Footings         Footing (Inches) Horizontal        Thickness
              (Inches)                          Reinforcement     (Inches)
1,000 square  12               12               #4 top and bottom 3.5
feet
Notes:
1.   Footings or foundation shall extend a minimum six inches above the
finished grade.
2.   Footings shall support not more than 16 inches of masonry block or
concrete.
3.   Monolithic slab footings are not permitted when any portion of the footing
is to be located less than six feet to a Group R - residential occupancy use.
 
   (J)   Appendix G. Appendix G, Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs shall be
amended by adding the following to Section AG-105.2 of the 2012 International
Residential Code.
      11.   In lieu of the barrier requirement provided for in subsections 1
through 10 above, a swimming pool may be protected and enclosed, when not under
the supervision of an adult who is at least 18 years of age by means of a power
safety cover meeting the most recent specifications approved by the American
Society for Testing and Materials for swimming pool covers under the fixed
designation standard F-1346 (ASTM F-1346).
      12.   In lieu of the barrier requirement provided for in subsections 1
through 8 above, a hot tub or spa may be protected and enclosed, when not under
the supervision of an adult who is at least 18 years of age, by means of a
cover meeting the most recent specifications approved by the American Society
for Testing and Materials for hot tub spa covers under the fixed designation
standard 1346 (ASTM).
(Prior Code, § 3-19) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-
18-2016)
§ 20.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Nuisance abatement. Any building erected, raised, converted or land or
premises used in violation of any other provisions of this chapter or the
requirements thereof is declared to be a common nuisance and such common
nuisance may be abated in such manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be
abated under state law.
   (B)   Permits and certificates of occupancy. Permits or certificates of
occupancy may be withheld by the Building Official for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Utilities. The district reserves the right to refuse to provide
utilities under its jurisdiction to any building erected, raised, converted, or
land or premises used in violation of any other provisions of this title.
   (D)   Other remedies. These enforcement powers shall not be exclusive so as
to restrict the rights of the improvement district to take other actions
authorized by law.
   (E)   Building contractors bond. All persons seeking a building permit for
construction under this section shall first make and execute to the district a
bond from sufficient sureties, approved by the district, which shall be in the
sum of $10,000. Said bond shall be conditioned as follows: on faithful
performance of all ordinances of the district; on the prompt payment to the
district of all fees for permits and licenses that may become due and owing to
the district; on faithful performance of all covenants, conditions and
restrictions of record against the property, and on indemnifying the district,
its officers, agents, and employees, keeping it harmless from any liability for
damages arising from the contractor’s negligence and/or unskillfulness in
doing, protecting and completing his or her work. The bond shall be kept in
full force and effect for the period of one year after cancellation or
completing of construction. This section shall not require a bond for a person
performing work on a structure owned and occupied by such person as his or her
primary place of residence providing cost of such work does not exceed $20,000.
(Prior Code, § 3-20) (Ord. 2024-03, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 20.06 PROCEDURE OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Scope of appeal. In any appeal, the scope of review shall be limited
to:
      (1)   The interpretation of a particular ordinance or code provision;
      (2)   The factual circumstances of the particular case; and
      (3)   The application of code provisions to the facts of the particular
case. The reasonableness of the exercise of any discretionary function,
including the choice of a code enforcement remedy or a technique in a
particular case, shall not be subject to review unless the Board of Appeals
agrees to hear an appeal upon such grounds.
   (B)   Ownership or equitable interest. Any person, firm or corporation
having any ownership or equitable interest in a property or structure, who is
affected by an interpretation, notice or order issued by the Building Official,
may request to appeal such notice or order. A written appeal shall be filed
with the secretary of the Board of Appeals requesting hearing and setting forth
a statement of the grounds for appeal on or before the date upon which a notice
or order issued by the Building Official is effective or is to be complied with
or within ten days after the day upon which such notice or order is received,
whichever period is less. Within ten days of receipt of such petition, the
secretary of the Board of Appeals shall set a time and place for hearing on
said appeal and shall give the petitioner, the Board of Appeals and all
interested parties notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner, Building
Official and other interested parties shall be given an opportunity to be heard
and to show cause why such notice or order appealed from should be sustained,
modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall commence no later than 30 days after
the date on which the petition was filed. After such hearing, the Board shall
sustain, modify or withdraw the notice depending on their findings. If the
Board sustains or modifies a notice, it shall be deemed an order and the
building in question shall be brought in compliance with the provisions of such
order within a reasonable period of time as determined by the Board. After a
hearing before the Board in the case of any notice suspending any permit
required by this title, when such notice has been sustained by the Board, the
permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. The determination of the appeal
made by the Board shall be reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public
record in the office of the Building Official. The secretary of the Board of
Appeals shall notify all appealing parties of the Board’s determination and
disposition of the appeal by written notice sent by certified mail.
   (C)   Effective appeal upon notice or order. No party filing an appeal with
the Board of Appeals upon a notice or order shall be entitled to a stay of the
effective date or date of required compliance as set forth in such notice or
order unless the Building Official or Board of Appeals grants such a stay.
(Prior Code, § 3-21)
§ 20.07 JUDICIAL REVIEW; EXHAUSTION OF REMEDIES.
   With regard to any appeal granted pursuant to this title, the appealing
party shall be deemed to have exhausted his or her administrative remedies
under this title only after having pursued his or her appeal through the Board
of Appeals. Any appealing party who, having exhausted his or her administrative
remedies pursuant to the foregoing, is aggrieved by the final determination and
disposition of his or her appeal by the Board may seek relief therefrom in any
court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-22) (Ord. 91-5, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 20.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this title for any person within the
district’s geographic limits or for any person within the planning and zoning
jurisdiction of the district to violate any provision of this title.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any section of this title shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed the then existing maximum dollar amount under
state law, SDCL § 22-6-2, for a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 2013-01, passed - -2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 7-15-
2024)
CHAPTER 21: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
21.01   Adopted
   
21.02   Amendments
§ 21.01 ADOPTED.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2009 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and amendments thereto as
provided in this chapter, is hereby adopted by the district. A printed copy of
such Code and amendment thereto shall be filed with the District Manager at the
office of the district as an original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-31) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 21.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The following amendments to the Uniform Mechanical Code are hereby made and
incorporated into such Mechanical Code as filed:
   Table 3-A Mechanical Permit Fees and other inspection and fees set forth in
the Mechanical Code are deleted.
(Prior Code, § 3-32)
CHAPTER 22: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
22.01   Adopted
   
22.02   Amendments
§ 22.01 ADOPTED.
   The National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted by the district. A printed copy of
such Code and amendments thereto shall be filed with the District Manager at
the office of the district as an original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-51) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 22.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The following amendments to the National Electrical Code are hereby made and
incorporated into such Building Code as filed:
   Fees. All references to permit fees and other inspection fees be deleted.
(Prior Code, § 3-53)
CHAPTER 23: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
23.01   Adopted
   
23.02   Definitions
   
23.03   Registration required for plumbing
   
23.04   Enforcement
   
23.05   Judicial review; exhaustion of remedies
   
23.06   Amendments
§ 23.01 ADOPTED.
   The 2009 Edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby adopted by the
district. A printed copy of such Code, and additions and amendments thereto,
shall be filed with the District Manager at the office of the district as an
original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-81) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 23.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. The District Manager of the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District Board of Supervisors.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Supervisors of the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 23.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR PLUMBING.
   No person shall engage in or do work as a plumbing contractor, plumber or
plumber’s apprentice unless registered to do so by the State Plumbing
Commission; provided that any person may do plumbing work which complies with
the minimum standards prescribed by the Commission and these ordinances on
property owned and occupied by him or her, or on premises where he or she may
be employed in full-time maintenance work.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see § 20.99
§ 23.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Nuisance abatement. Any building erected, raised, converted, or land
or premises used in violation of any other provisions of this chapter or the
requirements thereof is declared to be a common nuisance and such common
nuisance may be abated in such manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be
abated under state law.
   (B)   Permits and certificates of occupancy. Permits or certificates of
occupancy may be withheld by the District Manager for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Utilities. The district reserves the right to refuse to provide
utilities under its jurisdiction to any building erected, raised, converted, or
land or premises used in violation of any other provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Other remedies. These enforcement powers shall not be exclusive so as
to restrict the rights of the District Manager to take other actions authorized
by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
§ 23.05 JUDICIAL REVIEW; EXHAUSTION OF REMEDIES.
   With regard to any appeal granted pursuant to this title, the appealing
party shall be deemed to have exhausted his or her administrative remedies
under this title only after having pursued his or her appeal through the Board
of Appeals. Any appealing party who, having exhausted his or her administrative
remedies pursuant to the foregoing, is aggrieved by the final determination and
disposition of his or her appeal by the Board may seek relief therefrom in any
court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
§ 23.06 AMENDMENTS.
   The following amendments to the Uniform Plumbing Code are hereby made and
incorporated into such Plumbing Code as filed.
   (A)   Cost of permit. Cost of Permit (Section 20.7) regarding permit fees
may be revised from time to time by resolution of Board of Supervisors. Said
fee shall be published in accordance with SDCL § 7-25A-36. A copy of said fee
schedule shall be kept on file with the District Manager at the office of the
district.
   (B)   Board of Appeals (formerly Section 20.14, Uniform Plumbing Code). In
order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions and determinations made
by the administrative authority relative to the application and interpretation
of this Code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of Appeals
consisting of those persons who are members of Board of Supervisors. The
administrative authority shall be an ex-officio member of and shall act as
Secretary to said Board but shall have no vote upon any matter before the
Board. The Board of Appeals shall have authority to retain and rely on
consultants having experience in training upon the matters in question. The
Board shall adopt rules and procedures for conducting its business and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the applicant with a duplicate
copy to the administrative authority.
   (C)   Use of Copper Tubing (Section 203d Uniform Plumbing Code, modified).
      (a)   Copper tube for water piping shall have a weight of not less than
that of copper tube Type K for water piping underground and under a building
and Type M for above ground in a building.
   (D)   Drainage of fixtures located below the next upstream manhole or below
the main sewer level (Section 409(a) Uniform Plumbing Code, modified).
      (a)   All drainage pipe serving fixtures shall be protected from backflow
of sewage by installing an approved type backwater valve and each such
backwater valve shall be installed only in that branch or section of the
drainage system which receives the discharge from fixtures located below the
elevation of the curb or property line.
   (E)   Table 4-3 of the Uniform Plumbing Code, modified. The minimum building
sewer and building drain shall be four inches in diameter.
   (F)   Water pressure, pressure regulators and pressure relief valves
(Section 1007 Uniform Plumbing Code, modified).
      (b)   Excessive water pressure. Where local water pressure is in excess
of 100 pounds per square inch, an approved type pressure regulator preceded by
an adequate strainer shall be installed and the pressure reduced to 100 pounds
per square inch or less. For potable water services up to an including one and
one-half regulators, provision shall be made to prevent pressure on the
building side of the regulator from exceeding main supply pressure. Approved
regulators with integral bypasses are acceptable. Each such regulator and
strainer shall be accessibly located and shall have the strainer readily
accessible for cleaning without removing the regulator or strainer body or
disconnecting the supply piping. All pipe size determinations shall be based on
80% of the reduced pressure.
   (G)   Water heater permits. Water Heater Permits, Section 1303 of the
Uniform Plumbing Code pertaining to permits for work done on water heaters
shall be omitted.
   (H)   Material requirements.
      (1)   Pipe shall be manufactured from virgin materials qualified by the
National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) testing laboratory or other similar
accredited testing agencies as meeting the requirements of NSF Standard No. 14,
relating to thermo-plastic materials, pipes, fittings, valves, traps and
joining materials. All pipe shall be manufactured from the base material
Polyethylene (PF) 3406 or Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Schedule 80 pipe and
fittings.
      (2)   For any particular kind and size of pipe, the pressure rating for
water at 73ºF shall not be less than 160 psi. Polyethylene 2306 one-inch
minimum tube size 160 psi working pressure or more. Polybutylene ASTIM D2666
one-inch minimum tube size 160 psi or more working pressure. For installation
of two and one-half inch and larger, P.V.C. Schedule 40 or 80 is to be bell
type joint with slip joint gasket having a rated working pressure of 220 pound
psi or more at 73ºF. P.V.C. smaller than two and one-half inch and solvent weld
joints not approved below ground.
   (I)   Joints and connections.  
      (1)   All PE connections shall be made with mechanical compression
fittings equipped with elastomeric gaskets to provide the pressure seal and
with suitable insert for internal support. Heat fusion, flared and insert clamp
joints will not be acceptable. Curb stops shall be low turning torque type,
full open valves as approved by the Utilities Department.
      (2)   All PVC fittings and connections shall comply with IAPMO standards.
   (J)   Installation requirements.
      (1)   Pipe and fittings shall be positioned so that identifying markings
are readily visible for inspection.
      (2)   Pipe shall not be installed in any chase or tunnel that is heated,
contains hot water, hot air or steam piping.
      (3)   Sleeves, two pipe diameters larger in size, shall be installed to
protect the piping when passing through or under a foundation, wall, footing or
a floor. The space between the pipe and sleeve shall be filled with approved
sealants as recommended by the pipe manufacturer to assure their compatibility
with the plastic pipe.
      (4)   The pipe shall be buried a minimum of five and one-half feet below
the ground line at all points.
   (K)   Installation. Installations shall be made in accordance with the
following specific requirements; and to the extent applicable, in accordance
with the recommendations included in the appendixes of ASTM D2661 and D2665.
      (1)   A minimum of one-eighth inch clearance shall be provided when a
pipe passes through a wall or floor. Where required to be sealed by other codes
and ordinances, the material used shall conform with the recommendations or the
pipe manufacturer to assume their compatibility with the plastic pipe.
      (2)   When buried, sewer pipe shall be a minimum of four feet below the
outside ground line at all points.
      (3)   Piping shall be separated from any portion of a private water
system by a horizontal distance of at least ten feet or greater as may be
specified by the Plumbing Inspector.
   (L)   Chapter 12 of the Uniform Plumbing Code. Chapter 12 of the Uniform
Plumbing Code is deleted and Sections (1) through (17), inclusive, are enacted
in lieu thereof.)
      (1)   Fuel gas piping. Sections (1) through (17), inclusive, shall govern
the installation of all fuel gas piping in or in connection with any building
or structure or within the property lines of any premises.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Code, certain terms, phrases,
words and their derivatives shall be interpreted as set forth in this section;
provided, however, that whenever the words “gas meters” appear, they shall be
construed to also mean valves and those devices required for the regulation of
pressure and the measurement of natural gas being dispensed for any building,
structure or premises.
         Whenever the words “P.P.G. Facilities” appear, they shall be construed
to mean tanks, containers, container valves, regulating equipment, meters and/
or appurtenances for the storage and supply of liquefied petroleum gas for any
building, structure or premises.
         (a)   “Appliance fuel connector” means an assembly of listed semi
rigid or flexible tubing and fittings to carry fuel between a fuel piping
outlet and a fuel burning appliance.
         (b)   “Approved,” as to materials, workmanship and types of
construction, means approval by the administrative authority as the result of
investigation, inspection or test conducted by them or by reason of accepted
principles or tests by other recognized testing agency or authority.
         (c)   “Fuel gas” means natural, manufactured, liquefied petroleum or a
mixture of these.
         (d)   “Gas piping” means any installation of pipe, valves or fittings
that is used to convey fuel gas, installed on any premises or in any building,
but shall not include:
            (1)   Any portion of the service piping; or
            (2)   Any approved piping connection six feet or less in length
between an existing gas outlet and a gas appliance in the same room with the
outlet.
         (e)   “Gas piping system” means any arrangement of gas piping supplied
by one meter and each arrangement of gas piping serving a building, structure
or premises, whether individually metered or not.
         (f)   “Gas utility” means the duly enfranchised public utility
supplying the gas from its street mains.   
         (g)   “Service piping” means the piping and equipment between the
street gas main and the gas piping system inlet, which is installed by and is
under the control and maintenance of the serving gas supplier.
      (3)   Permit.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to install or alter or cause to be
installed or altered any gas piping without first obtaining a permit from the
administrative authority except as exempted by the Uniform Plumbing Code or by
district ordinance; provided, however, no permit shall be required for a public
utility to disconnect defective gas piping or equipment when authorized by
Section (8) below.
         (b)   Permits for gas piping shall show the total number of gas
outlets to be provided for on each system and such other information as may be
required by the administrative authority.
         (c)   Fees shall be set by resolution of the District Board of
Supervisors.
      (4)   Plans required. The administrative authority may require the
submission of plans, specifications, drawings and such other information as he
or she may deem necessary prior to the commencement of, and at any time during
the progress of, any work regulated by this chapter.
      (5)   Workmanship. No gas piping shall be strained or bent and no
appliance shall be supported by or develop any strain or stress on its supply
piping. Gas piping supplying appliances designed to be supported by the piping
may be used to support such appliances when first approved by the
administrative authority.
      (6)   Inspections.
         (a)   Upon completion of the installation, alteration or repair of any
gas piping for which a permit is required, and prior to the use thereof, the
contractor shall, before calling administrative authority for an inspection,
test the system in such a manner as to satisfy himself or herself the system is
free from leaks. One of the following requirements must be met before the gas
line is approved for service:
            (1)   The installing contractor furnish the inspection services
division with his or her written statement (on a form provided by the
administrative authority) that the said contractor has tested the gas line in
accordance with the testing procedures provided in this section and found that
no leaks exist; or
            (2)   The inspector witnesses an air test of the system and finds
that no leaks exist.
         (b)   The testing procedures shall include an air pressure test, at
which time the gas piping shall stand a pressure of not less than ten pounds
per square inch (68.9 kPa) gauge pressure, or at the discretion of the
administrative authority, the piping and valves may be tested at a pressure of
at least six inches (152.4 mm) of mercury, measured with a manometer or slope
gauge. Test pressures shall be held for length of time satisfactory to the
administrative authority, but in no case for less than 15 minutes, with no
perceptible drop in pressure. For welded piping, and for piping carrying gas at
pressures in excess of 14 inches (0.4 m) water column pressure, the test
pressure shall not be less than 60 pounds per square inch (413.4 kPa) and shall
be continued for a length of time satisfactory to the administrative authority,
but in no case for less than 30 minutes. These tests shall be made using air
pressure only. All necessary apparatus for conducting tests shall be furnished
by the permit holder. A soap test for low pressure piping will be acceptable.
         (c)   All excavations required for the installation of underground
piping, except that portion owned and operated by the gas utility company,
shall be kept open until such time as the pipe has been inspected and approved.
Any such piping covered or concealed before such approval shall be exposed for
inspection at the direction of the administrative authority.
         (d)   If, upon final piping inspection, the installation is found to
comply with the provisions of this Code, a certificate of inspection may be
issued by the administrative authority in such form as the administrative
authority shall determine. A copy of such certificate shall be issued to the
gas utility company providing service to the premises. It is unlawful for any
person to turn on, or cause to be turned on, any fuel gas or any gas meter or
meters, until such certificate of final inspection, as provided in this
section, have been issued.
         (e)   The failure of any person required by this Code to obtain a
permit shall absolve the administrative authority from any duty, obligation or
responsibility to inspect the installation, alteration or repair of any gas
piping.
      (7)   Authority to render gas service. It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, excepting an authorized agent or employee of a person,
firm or corporation engaged in the business of furnishing or supplying gas and
whose service pipes supply or connect with the particular premises, to turn on
or reconnect gas service in or on any premises where and when gas service is at
the time not being rendered.
      (8)   Authority to disconnect.
         (a)   The administrative authority or the gas utility is authorized to
disconnect any gas piping or appliance or both which is found not to conform to
the requirements of this Code or which may be found defective and in such
condition as to endanger life or property.
         (b)   Where such disconnection has been made, a notice shall be
attached to such gas piping or appliance or both, which shall state the same
has been disconnected together with the reasons therefor.
         (c)   Such attached notice shall not be removed or shall either gas
piping or appliances be reconnected until authorized by the administrative
authority or gas utility to do so.
         (d)   It is unlawful to remove or disconnect any gas piping or gas
appliance without capping or plugging with a screw joint fitting the outlet
from which the pipe or appliance was removed. All outlets to which gas
appliances are not connected shall be left capped gas tight on any piping
system which has been installed, altered or repaired.
      (9)   Gas meter locations.
         (a)   All meters shall be installed out of doors at a point agreeable
to the property owner or the building contractor and the gas utility company.
Where it is not possible to meet the outdoor requirements, the owner or
contractor shall contact the gas utility for their approval on an alternate
location.
         (b)   In a building using both gas and electrical service, the meters
associated with these services will be grouped to facilitate testing and
reading. The location is to be agreeable to the property owner or building
contractor and the utility company.
         (c)   Meters will not be located in an inaccessible area or those
subject to damage.
         (d)   One metering installation will be allowed for each building
using gas. More than one meter per building will be allowed only when there is
more than one customer or more than one class of service.
         (e)   The utility company will make the connection to the customer’s
piping, when already installed, to a readily accessible point located within
two feet of the company’s previously agreed upon point for delivery. The
customer will make the connection to the utility’s piping when the metering
installation has been installed to the previously agreed upon point of
delivery.
      (10)   Material for gas piping.
         (a)   Gas piping shall be so constructed and installed as to be
durable, substantial and gas tight. All steel pipe concealed and over two
inches, and all pipe, regardless of size, carrying one psi or more shall have
welded joints and fittings between the customer’s connection at the meter
installation and the appliance shut off valve.
         (b)   All pipe and fittings shall be either new, or shall previously
have been used for no other purpose than conveying gas; it shall be in good
condition and free from internal obstructions. Burred ends shall be reamed to
the full bore of the pipe. Cast iron pipe or fittings and galvanized pipe or
fittings, street ells, street tees and bushings shall not be used.
         (c)   Not less than standard weight wrought iron or steel pipe shall
be used when threaded and it shall comply with the “American Standard for Pipe
Threads,” ASA B36.10 (latest issue).
         (d)   Pipe and fitting thread shall comply with the “American Standard
for Pipe Threads,” ASA B2.1 (latest issue).
         (e)    Shut off valves shall be of the iron body, plug type, or brass
A.G.A. approved. Shut off valves shall comply with the American Standard
requirements for “Manually Operated Gas Valves” Z21.15 (latest issue).
         (f)   Pipe joints may be screwed flanged, welded or compression type.
         (g)   Single wall, stainless steel flexible connectors and AGA listed
double wall, brass flexible connectors are acceptable. (See Section (12) below)
         (h)   Plastic pipe or tubing of the following types is approved for
outdoor underground fuel lines and is limited to sixty psi maximum pressure.
         (i)   Thermoplastic.   
            (A)   PVC Type 1, Grades 1 and 2 (PVC 1120 and PVC 1220),
manufactured as per ASTIM D-2513.
            (B)   Polyethylene Type III, Grade 3 (PE 3306), manufactured as per
ASTIM D-2513.
         (j)   Thermosetting.
            (A)   Polyethylene Type III, Grade 3 (PE 3306) manufactured as per
ASTIM D- 2517 and Type II, Grade 3 (PE 2306) Manufactured as per ASTIM D-1248.
      (11)   Installation of gas piping.
         (a)   Service piping shall be installed only by a plumbing, dusted air
heating/cooling, or hydronic heating/cool contractor. Service piping to the
customer shall be routed so as to be accessible for future maintenance. Its
location shall be agreed upon with the property owner or the building
contractor.
         (b)   Black wrought iron or steel.
            (1)   The building structure shall not be weakened by installation
of the piping.
            (2)   Underground gas piping, when installed below grade through
the outer foundation or basement wall of a building, shall be encased in a
sleeve or otherwise protected against corrosion. The piping or sleeve shall be
sealed at the foundation or basement wall to prevent entry of gas or water.
            (3)   When the installation of gas piping underground beneath
buildings is unavoidable, the piping shall be encased in a conduit. The conduit
shall extend into a normally usable and accessible portion of the building and,
at the point where the conduit terminates in the building, the space between
the conduit and the gas piping shall be sealed to prevent possible entrance of
any gas leakage. The conduit shall extend at least four inches outside the
building, be vented above grade to the outside, and be installed in a way as to
prevent the entrance of water.
            (4)   Ferrous gas piping installed underground in exterior
locations shall be welded and protected from corrosion by approved coatings or
wrapping materials and all such horizontal piping shall have at least 12 inches
of earth cover or other equivalent protection. Risers shall be wrapped to a
point at least six inches above grade. It shall be insulated away from all
other piping and shall be cathodically protected.
            (5)   All gas pipe protective coatings shall be approved types,
machine applied and conform to recognized standards. Field wrapping shall
provide equivalent protection and is restricted to those short sections and
fittings necessarily stripped for welding.
            (6)   Pipe shall not be run in inaccessible or concealed space in
buildings where its condition cannot be inspected and where undetected leakage
might cause dangerous accumulations of gas. Where such conditions cannot be
met, welded steel pipe shall be used.
               (A)   Residences where the finishing includes the concealment of
gas piping shall meet the following requirements:
                  (i)   Unions, tube fittings, running threads, right and left
couplings, bushings and swing joints made by combinations of fittings shall not
be used.
                  (ii)   If a covering is installed that will conceal existing
gas piping, it shall be of a removable type.
                  (iii) If (i) and (ii) cannot be met, concealed piping shall
be welded.
            (7)   Pipe passing through foundation or masonry walls or otherwise
exposed to moisture or corrosive conditions shall be protected from corrosion
in a manner approved by the gas utility.
            (8)   Gas pipe in buildings shall be supported with pipe hooks,
metal pipe straps, bands or hangers suitable for the size of pipe and of
adequate strength and quality and located at proper intervals so that the
piping cannot be moved accidentally from the installed position. Gas piping
shall not be supported by other piping.
            (9)   Pipe joint compounds approved for use with natural and
liquefied petroleum gases shall be used sparingly and applied to male threads
only.
         (c)   Plastic pipe.
            (1)   Each buried pipe must have a minimum of 12 inches cover.
Consideration should be given to protecting the piping from physical damage
when it passes through flower beds, shrub beds and other such cultivated areas.
            (2)   Plastic pipe cannot terminate above ground where it can be
exposed to sunlight or physical damage unless protected with a shield and
connector approved by the gas supplier.
         (d)   Acceptable piping methods.
            (1)   All gas piping is to be black steel pipe.
            (2)   An accessible shut off valve shall be installed in the fuel
supplying piping outside of each appliance and ahead of the union connection
thereto, and in addition to any valve on the appliance. Shut off valves shall
be within three feet of the appliance. Shut off valves may be accessibly
located immediately adjacent to and inside or under an appliance when placed in
an accessible and protected location and when such appliance may be removed
without removal of the valve.
      (12)   Appliance connectors.
         (a)   Appliance connections shall at no time have a diameter less than
that of the inlet connection to the appliance as provided by the manufacturer
and each appliance shall be rigidly connected to the gas piping with materials
as provided in Section (10)(g).
         EXCEPTION:
         A gas appliance may be connected with an approved double wall A.G.A.
or single wall stainless steel listed metal appliance connector under the
following conditions:
            (1)   All readily movable gas appliances shall be connected with
approved, listed flexible type connectors that are in the same room as the
appliance;
            (2)   Listed metal appliance connectors shall have an overall
length of not to exceed three feet except a range connector, which may not
exceed six feet;
            (3)   No part of such connector shall be concealed within or
extended through any wall, floor or partition;
            (4)   A listed accessible appliance connector valve not less than
the nominal size of the connector shall be provided at the gas piping outlet
immediately ahead of the connector;
            (5)   All connectors shall be of such size as to provide the total
demand of the connected appliance;
            (6)   The connection of an indoor appliance with any type of gas
hose is prohibited except when used with laboratory or shop equipment or
equipment that requires mobility during operation. Such connections shall have
the shut off or stopcock installed at the connection to the building piping.
When gas hose is used, it shall be of the minimum practical length, but not to
exceed six feet, except for hand torches and special mobile equipment, and
shall not extend from one room to another nor pass through any walls,
partitions, ceilings or floors. Under no circumstances shall gas hose be
concealed from view or used in a concealed location. Only listed gas hose shall
be used and only in accordance with its listing. Gas hose shall not be used
where it is likely to be subject to excessive temperatures (above 125ºF), nor
shall it be used as a substitute for a standard appliance connector;
            (7)   Outdoor portable appliances may be connected with an approved
outdoor hose connector not to exceed 15 feet in length, provided it connects
outdoors to approved gas piping including an approved valve at the inlet of the
hose connector; and
            (8)   Suspended unit heater may also be connected with an approved
appliance connector.
      (13)   Liquefied petroleum gas facilities and piping. In addition to the
requirements of this Code for gas piping, the facilities and piping for use
with liquefied petroleum gas shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   All liquefied petroleum gas facilities shall conform to approved
standards. All such facilities and their locations shall be acceptable to the
administrative authority and shall conform to state and local fire prevention
regulations;
         (b)   Where liquefied petroleum gas facilities serve more than one
customer through separate piping systems, each system shall be identified in a
manner satisfactory to the administrative authority and the gas supplier;
         (c)   All liquefied petroleum gas facilities shall be so placed as to
be at all times readily accessible for inspection, reading, testing and
shutting off the gas supply. All service piping and main supply shut off valves
shall be outside of the building. All main supply valves shall be of approved
type and readily accessible;
         (d)   In order that gas may be supplied, the gas piping inlet shall be
located with respect to the proposed liquefied petroleum gas facility location
in accordance with the requirements of this section and the supplier’s
instructions;
         (e)   Liquefied petroleum gas facilities shall not be located in any
pit or basement, under show windows or interior stairways, in engine, boiler,
heater or electric meter rooms. When not prohibited by another regulation,
approved liquefied petroleum gas metering devices may be located in the open
under exterior stairways;
         (f)   Liquefied petroleum gas piping shall not serve any gas water
heater located in a pit where heavier than air gas might collect to form a
flammable mixture;
         (g)   Pipe joint compounds used on thread connections shall be
insoluble in liquefied petroleum gas;
         (h)   Every valve and appurtenance used on such piping shall be
designed and approved for use with liquefied petroleum gas; and
         (i)   Discharge from relief valves shall be into the open air and
shall be at least five feet away from any opening into a building.
      (14)   Leaks.
         (a)   Matches, candles and other open flames shall not be used to
check for gas leakage. Checks for leaks shall be made with approved gas leak
detectors or by brushing a soap and water solution or its equivalent on
fittings and other suspected locations.
         (b)   Fire or acid shall not be used to locate or repair leaks, nor
shall any substance other than air be introduced into the gas piping.
         (c)   It shall not be permissible to repair defects in gas piping or
fittings, but upon having been located, the defective pipe or fitting shall be
removed and replaced with sound material.
      (15)   Interconnections of gas piping systems.
         (a)   It is unlawful to connect any gas appliance in such a manner
that such appliance may receive gas from more than one system of gas piping.
         (b)   When liquefied petroleum or other stand by gas is interconnected
with the regular piping system, an approved three way two port valve or other
adequate safeguard acceptable to administrative authority and the serving gas
supplier shall be installed to prevent backflow into either piping system.
         (c)   When air, oxygen or other special supplementary gas under
pressure is introduced with the regularly supplied gas either directly into the
gas piping system or at burners, a device approved by the administrative
authority and the serving gas supplier shall be installed to prevent backflow
of such special gas into the gas piping system or serving gas supplier’s meter.
This device shall be located between the source of the special gas and the
serving gas supplier’s meter and shall be on the gas line leading to the
appliance using the special gas. This device may be either a spring loaded or
diaphragm type check valve and shall be capable of withstanding any pressures
which may be imposed on it.
         (d)   The installation, use or maintenance of a gas valve which makes
it possible to turn on, control or otherwise direct the flow of gas from one
system of gas piping to another, where such systems are supplied with gas from
separate meters, is prohibited, and any such valves or interconnection between
separate systems of gas piping shall be removed upon order of this
administrative authority.
      (16)   Required gas supply.
         (a)   The following regulations as set forth in this section and in
Section (17), Required Gas Piping Size, shall be the standard for the
installation of gas piping. All natural gas regulations and tables are based on
the use of gas having a specific gravity of 0.65 supplied at six to eight
inches water column pressure at the outlet of the meter.
         (b)   The hourly volume of gas required at each piping outlet shall be
taken as not less than the maximum hourly rating, as specified by the
manufacturer of the appliance or appliances to be connected to each such
outlet.
         (c)   Where the gas appliances to be installed have not been
definitely specified, Table 12-1 below may be used as a reference to estimate
requirements of typical appliances.
Table 12-1
Minimum Demand of Typical Gas Appliances in BTU Per Hour
To obtain the cubic feet per hour of gas required, divide the BTU input of
appliances by 1,000. (The BTU heating value per cubic foot of gas).
Appliances Demand in BTU
Table 12-1
Minimum Demand of Typical Gas Appliances in BTU Per Hour
To obtain the cubic feet per hour of gas required, divide the BTU input of
appliances by 1,000. (The BTU heating value per cubic foot of gas).
Appliances                                 Demand in BTU
Barbecue (residential)                     50,000
Bunsen burner                              3,000
Domestic clothes dryer                     35,000
Domestic gas range                         65,000
Domestic recessed oven section             25,000
Domestic recessed top burner section       40,000
Fireplace log lighter (commercial)         50,000
Fireplace log lighter (residential)        25,000
Gas engines (per horsepower)               10,000
Gas refrigerator                           3,000
Steam boilers (per horsepower)             50,000
Storage water heater up to 30-gallon tank  30,000
Storage water heater 40- to 50-gallon tank 50,000
 
         (d)   The size of the supply piping outlet for any gas appliance shall
be not less than one-half inch.
            The minimum size of any piping outlet for a freestanding gas range
or a mobile home shall be three- quarter inch.
      (17)   Required gas piping size.
         (a)   Where the maximum demand does not exceed 250 cubic feet per hour
and the maximum length of piping between the meter and the most distant outlet
is not over 250 feet, the size of each section and each outlet of any system of
gas piping shall be determined by means of Table 12-2 below. Other systems
within the range of Table 12-2 may be sized from that table or by means of the
methods set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
         (b)   To determine the size of each section of pipe in any system
within the range of Table 12-2, proceed as follows.
            (1)   Measure the length of the pipe from the gas meter location to
the most remote outlet on the system.
            (2)   In Table 12-2, select the column showing that distance, or
the next longer distance, if the table does not give the exact length.
            (3)   Starting at the most remote outlet, find the vertical column
just selected and the gas demand for that outlet. If the exact figure of demand
is not shown, choose the next larger figure below in the column.
Table 12-2
Size of Gas Piping
Maximum delivery capacity in cubic feet of gas per hour (CFH) of I.P.S.
pipe carrying natural gas of 0.65 specific gravity based on pressure
drop 0.5 for water column.
Pipe Size Length in Feet
(Inches)  10' 20' 30' 40' 50' 60' 70'
Table 12-2
Size of Gas Piping
Maximum delivery capacity in cubic feet of gas per hour (CFH) of I.P.S.
pipe carrying natural gas of 0.65 specific gravity based on pressure
drop 0.5 for water column.
Pipe Size Length in Feet
(Inches)  10'    20'    30'    40'    50'   60'   70'
1/2       170    118    95     80     71    64    60
3/4       360    245    198    169    150   135   123
1         670    430    370    318    282   255   235
1-1/4     1,320  930    740    640    565   510   470
1-1/2     1,990  1,370  1,100  950    830   760   700
2         3,880  2,680  2,150  1,840  1,610 1,480 1,350
2-1/2     6,200  4,120  3,420  2,950  2,600 2,360 2,180
3         10,900 7,500  6,000  5,150  4,600 4,150 3,820
3-1/2     16,000 11,000 8,900  7,600  6,750 6,200 5,650
4         22,500 15,500 12,400 10,600 9,300 8,500 7,900
 
Pipe Size Length in Feet
(Inches)  80'    90'    100'   125'   150'  200'  250'
1/2       55     52     49     44     40    34    30
3/4       115    108    102    92     83    71    63
1         220    205    192    172    158   132   118
1-1/4     440    410    390    345    315   270   238
1-1/2     650    610    570    510    460   400   350
2         1,250  1,180  1,100  1,000  910   780   690
2-1/2     2,000  1,900  1,800  1,600  1,450 1,230 1,100
3         3,550  3,300  3,120  2,810  2,550 2,180 1,193
3-1/2     5,250  4,950  4,650  4,150  3,800 3,200 2,860
4         7,300  6,800  6,400  5,700  5,200 4,400 3,950
 
Pipe Size Length in Feet
(Inches)  300'   350'   400'   450'   500'  550'  600'
1/2       27     25     23     22     21    20    19
3/4       57     52     48     45     43    41    39
1         108    100    92     86     81    77    74
1-1/4     215    200    185    172    162   155   150
1-1/2     320    295    275    255    240   230   220
2         625    570    535    500    470   450   430
2-1/2     1,000  920    850    800    760   720   690
3         1,750  1,600  1,500  1,400  1,320 1,250 1,200
3-1/2     2,600  2,400  2,200  2,100  2,000 1,900 1,800
4         3,600  3,250  3,050  2,850  2,700 2,570 2,450
 
            (4)   Opposite this demand figure, in the first column at the left
in Table 12-2, will be found the correct size of the pipe.
            (5)   Using this same vertical column, proceed in a similar manner
for each section of pipe serving this outlet. For each section of pipe,
determine the total gas demand supplied by that section. Where gas piping
sections serve both heating and cooling equipment and the installation prevents
both units from operating simultaneously, only the larger of the two demand
loads need be used in sizing these sections.
            (6)   Size each section of branch piping not previously sized by
measuring the distance from the gas meter location to the most removed outlet
in that branch and follow the procedures of Steps (2), (3), (4) and (5) above.
NOTE: Size branch piping in the order of their distance from the meter location
beginning with the most distant outlet not previously sized.
         (c)   For conditions other than those covered by subsection (a) of
this section, such as longer runs or greater gas demands, the size of each gas
piping system shall be determined by standard engineering methods acceptable to
the administrative authority and each such system shall be so designed that the
total pressure drop between the meter or other point of supply and any outlet
when full demand is being supplied to all outlets, will at not time exceed
five-tenths inches water column pressure.
         (d)   Where the gas pressure may be higher than 14 inches or lower
than six inches of water column, or when diversity demand factors are used, the
design, pipe, sizing, materials, location and use of such systems first shall
be approved by the administrative authority and the serving gas supplier
supplying the gas.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 91-6, passed 9-19-1991; Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-
1994)
CHAPTER 24: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
24.01   Adoption
   
24.02   Conflict
   
24.03   Building Official
   
24.04   Amendments
   
24.05   Porches and terraces in front yards
   
24.06   Constitutionality
   
24.07   Conflicts
§ 24.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, including Appendix
E, Appendix G and Appendix H, as published by the International Code Council,
Inc. as amended is hereby adopted as the Residential Building Code by the
district for regulating the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, movement, repair, equipment, use and
occupancy, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories in height with a separate
means of egress and their accessory structures, and provides for the issuance
of permits and collection of fees therefore. The whole Code thereof has been
adopted except such portions as may be deleted, modified or amended as
hereinafter set out or later adopted. The Finance Officer shall keep and
maintain a master copy of said Code, including all future deletions,
modifications and amendments which may be adopted. The minimum building
standards in the 2012 Edition of the International Residential Code and
amendments thereto shall be applied to any building permit issued after January
1, 2015.
   (B) The Code shall be filed with the finance office.
(Prior Code, § 3-82) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.02 CONFLICT.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Code adopted by
this chapter and applicable provisions of this code of ordinances, state law or
city ordinance, rule or regulation shall prevail and be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 3-83) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.03 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Official, member of the Board of Appeals or employee
charged with the enforcement of this Code, while acting for the jurisdiction in
good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this
Code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered liable
personally and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damages
accruing to person or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act or
omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act or omission performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties under the provisions of this Code
shall be afforded all the protection provided by any immunities and defenses
provided by other applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   This Code shall not be construed or relieve or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any building or
structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall
the district, its officers and employees be held as assuming any such liability
by reason of the inspections authorized by this Code or any permits or
certificates issued under this Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-84) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.04 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Sections not adopted. The following sections of the 2012 International
Residential Code are not adopted by the district:
      (1)   R303.4 Mechanical Ventilation;
      (2)   N1102.4.1.2 (R402.4.1.2) Testing;
      (3)   R309.5 Fire Sprinklers; and
      (4)   R501.3 Fire Protection of Floors.
(Prior Code, § 3-86)
   (B)   Sections adopted. The following sections of the 2012 International
Residential Code are hereby adopted by the district:
      (1)   R602.12 Simplified Wall Bracing;
      (2)   R802.11.1 Uplift Resistance;
      (3)   N1101.3 (R101.4.3) Additions, Alterations, Renovations and Repairs;
      (4)   Table N1102.1.1 (R402.1.1) Insulation and Fenestration Requirements
by Component; and
 
                                                   Wood  Mall                       Crawl
Climate Fenestration Skylight Glazed       Ceiling Frame Wall  Floor Basement Slab  Space
Zone    U-Factor     U-Factor Fenestration R-Value Wall  R-    R-    Wall R-  R-    Wall
                              SHGC                 R-    Value Value Value    Value Value
                                                   Value
6       .32          .55      NR           49      20 or 15-19 30    10/13    10, 4 10-13
                                                   13+5                       feet
 
      (5)   N1102.2.8 (R4102.2.8) Basement Walls.
(Prior Code, § 3-87)
   (C)   Section 3 of Sub-Section 1025 - Emergency Escape and Rescue
amendments. In the 2012 International Building Code, Section 3 of Sub-Section
1025 - Emergency Escape and Rescue shall be amended to read as follows:
      1025.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1,220
mm) measured from the floor.
(Prior Code, § 3-88)
   (D)   Section 1.4 of Sub-Section 406 - Separation. In the 2012 International
Building Code, Section 1.4 of Sub-Section 406 - Separation shall be read as
follows:
      406.1.4   Separation. Separations shall comply with the following:
         1.   The private garage shall be separated from the dwelling unit and
its attic area by means of a minimum of 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) gypsum board applied
to the garage side. Garages beneath habitable rooms shall be separated from all
habitable rooms above by not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum board of
equivalent. Door openings between a private garage and the dwelling unit shall
be equipped with either solid wood doors, or solid or honeycomb core steel
doors not less than 1-3/8 inches (35.9 mm) thick, or doors in compliance with
Section 715.3.3. All doors must be self-closing. Openings from a private garage
directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted.
         2.   Ducts in a private garage and ducts penetrating the walls or
ceilings separating the dwelling unit from the garage shall be constructed of a
minimum of 0.019-inch (0.48 mm) sheet steel and shall have no openings into the
garage.
         3.   A separation is not required between a Group R-3 and U carport;
provided the carport is entirely open on two or more sides and there are not
enclosed areas above.
(Prior Code, § 3-89)
   (E)   General construction requirements.
      (1)   Section R302.1 Exterior Walls - Exception 2 is amended to read:
Detached garages accessory to a dwelling are not required to provide wall
protection when the building area does not exceed 1,000 square feet and the
exterior wall is located not less than three feet from the property line. Roof
eave projections shall extend not less than 12 inches to a property line.
      (2)   Section R310.1 Emergency Escape and Rescue Required - is amended to
by adding the following sentence to the section: In basements, the sill height
of an emergency escape and rescue opening may be measured from an elevated
landing, provided the landing is not less than 36 inches in width and not less
than 20 inches out from the exterior wall, and not more than 24 inches in
height. The elevated landing and its supporting structure shall be permanently
affixed to the wall and floor below the openable emergency escape and rescue
window.
      (3)   Section R404.1 Concrete and Masonry Foundation Walls - paragraph 2
is amended to read: Floor joists and blocking shall be connected to the sill
plate at the top of the wall with three 8d nails toe nailed to the sill or
girder.
      (4)   Paragraph 3 is amended to read: Sill plates shall be bolted to the
foundation or foundation wall not less than one-half inch nominal diameter
steel bolts embedded at least seven inches into the concrete or masonry and
spaced not more than four feet apart. There shall be a minimum of two bolts per
piece with one bolt located within 12 inches of each end of each piece. A
properly sized nut and washer shall be tightened on each bolt to the plate.
      (5)   Paragraph 5 is deleted.
      (6)   Section 903.4.2 Alarms - is amended to read: Approved audible
devices shall be connected to every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler
water flow alarm devices shall be active by water flow equivalent to the flow
of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the system.
Alarm devices shall be provided on the exterior of the building in an approved
location. Approved audible visual alarms to alert the occupants of the building
shall be installed throughout the building in accordance with NFPA 72 and as
required by the authority having jurisdiction. Where a fire alarm system is
installed, activation of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate the
buildings fire alarm system.
      (7)   Section R907.3 Re-covering Versus Replacement - Paragraph 4 is
deleted.
      (8)   Table R301.2 (1) Climate and Geographic Design Criteria - is
amended by inserting the following climate and geographical design criteria.
The following table shall be applicable to the general design requirements of
the 2012 International Residential Code and 2012 International Building Code.
 
Ground Snow  Wind Speed    Seismic    Weathering   Frost Line
Load         (mph)         Design     (Concrete    Depth        Termite Damage
                           Capacity   Masonry)
35           90            A          Severe       42 inches    Slight
Decay Damage Winter Design Ice Shield Flood Hazard Air Freezing Mean Annual
             Temperature   Required   NFIP Adopted Index        Temperature
Slight       -7ºF         Yes        1979         2000         48.3ºF
 
      (9)   Table R403.1 Minimum Width of Concrete or Masonry Footings - all
tables shall be replaced with the following.
 
Spread Footings - Single Story Light Frame Construction Only
                                                          Minimum Depth of
Number of Floors Width of Footings  Thickness of Footings Foundation Below
Supported by     (Inches)           (Inches)              Natural Surface of
Foundation                                                Ground or Finish
                                                          Grade (Inches)
1                16                 8                     42
2                16                 8                     42
3                20                 12                    42
Notes:
1.   Foundations may support a roof in addition to the stipulated number of
floors.
2.   Foundations supporting only roofs shall be as required for supporting one
floor.
3.   The ground under the floor is permitted to be excavated to the footings
top elevation.
4.   All footings shall have at least two #4 reinforcement bars parallel with
footings.
 
 
Trench Footings - Single Story Light Frame Construction
                              Minimum Depth of
Number of    Minimum Width of Foundation Below                  Minimum
Floors       Footings         Natural Surface  Minimum Vertical Horizontal
Supported by (Inches)         of Ground or     Reinforcement    Reinforcement
Foundation                    Finish Grade
                              (Inches)
1            8                2                #4 at 48" o.c.   #4 top and
                                                                bottom
Notes:
1.   Foundations may support a roof in addition to the stipulated number of
floors.
2.   Soil bearing pressure shall be a minimum of 2,000 psi.
3.   Structural spans shall not exceed 16 feet.
 
      (10)   Table 1805.4.2 Floors supporting walls of Light Frame Construction
- is amended by adding the following table.
 
Monolithic Slab Footings - Group U (Utility) Type Structures Only
Minimum Building Minimum Width of Minimum Depth of Minimum       Minimum Floor
Area             Footings         Footing          Horizontal    Thickness
                 (Inches)         (Inches)         Reinforcement (Inches)
1,000 square     12               12               #4 top and    3.5
feet                                               bottom
Notes:
1.   Footings or foundation shall extend a minimum six inches above the
finished grade.
2.   Footings shall support not more than 16 inches of masonry block or
concrete.
3.   Monolithic slab footings are not permitted when any portion of the
footing is to be located less than six feet to a Group R - residential
occupancy use.
 
(Prior Code, § 3-91) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.05 PORCHES AND TERRACES IN FRONT YARDS.
   An open, unenclosed porch may project into a required front yard for a
distance not exceeding ten feet. Balconies and paved terraces may project into
a required front yard for a distance not exceeding six feet. An enclosed
vestibule containing not more than 40 square feet may project into a required
front yard for a distance not to exceed four feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-90) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.06 CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   If any section, provision or part of this chapter shall be judged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole or any sections, provisions or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Prior Code, § 3-92) (Ord. 2014-03, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 24.07 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Code adopted by
this chapter and applicable provisions of this code of ordinances, the Building
Design Guidelines, state law or district ordinance, rule or regulation, the
provisions of this code of ordinances, the Building Design Guidelines, state
law or district rule or regulation shall prevail and be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
CHAPTER 25: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
25.01   Adoption of the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code
§ 25.01 ADOPTION OF THE 2012 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2012 Edition of the International Property Management Code is hereby
adopted in its entirety by reference in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 2013-01, passed - -2013)
TITLE 3: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   SIDEWALKS
      
32.   TREES AND PLANTS
      
33.   SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
      
34.   RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Declaration as a safety hazard, and restoring street pavement or street
surfacing to former condition
§ 30.01 DECLARATION AS A SAFETY HAZARD, AND RESTORING STREET PAVEMENT OR STREET
SURFACING TO FORMER CONDITION.
   The following actions are hereby declared a safety hazard which may cause
damage to public property and are further declared a violation of this section
by the Board of Supervisors of the district:
   (A)   No contractors or others who utilize the streets, rights-of-way or the
properties adjacent thereto in district shall allow earth or materials to be
deposited upon, or roll to, flow or wash upon or over any public street, walk,
place or way. The contractor or individual responsible shall clean said earth
or materials by the end of each day and failure to do so shall be violation of
this division (A). The district may then clean up the same and assess the costs
of the clean up back to the building permit holder and/or to the responsible
contractor or individual at the rate of $500 per hour.
   (B)   No cut or fill materials shall be transported to or from a
construction site in the district in such a manner as to permit it to be
deposited upon any public street. In the event cut or fill material, dirt, mud
or other material is deposited or tracked upon the public streets or rights-of-
way, the contractor or individual responsible shall clean it up by the end of
each day and failure to do so shall be a violation of this division (B). The
district may then clean said material up and assess the costs of the clean up
back to the building permit holder and/or to the responsible contractor or
individual at the rate of $250 per hour.
   (C)   (1)   Further, should any building permit holder, contractor or other
individual fail and/or refuse to pay the assessment identified in divisions (A)
or (B) above, or fail to comply with this section in any manner, the District
Manager may halt the activity.
      (2)   In addition, the District Manager may halt the activity which is in
violation of this section when there is a legitimate safety hazard as
determined by the District Manager in his or her sole discretion.
   (D)   Any building permit holder, contractor or individual in violation of
this section shall also reimburse the district for any and all damages caused
to the streets or public rights-of-way as a result of their activity in the
district. The district may further exercise any and all legal remedies
available to them, including but not limited to injunctive relief and civil
action for compensatory damages.
(Prior Code, § 5-23) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 4- -2005; Ord. 2024-05, passed 7-15-
2024)
CHAPTER 31: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
31.01   Liability of adjoining property owner for failure to keep sidewalks in
repair and notification procedures
   
31.02   Notice of adjoining property owners to construct or repair sidewalk and
service of notice
   
31.03   District construction or repair on failure by adjoining owner
   
31.04   Assessment of sidewalk costs against abutting property
   
31.05   Filing of assessment roll for sidewalk construction or repair and costs
covered by assessment
   
31.06   Division of sidewalk assessment into annual installments and notice of
filing and hearing on assessment roll
   
31.07   Amendment and approval or rejection of assessment roll and
certification to county officers and collection of assessments
   
31.08   Assessment law applicable to sidewalk improvements
   
31.09   Responsibility
   
31.10   Sidewalks subject to this chapter
§ 31.01 LIABILITY OF ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNER FOR FAILURE TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN
REPAIR AND NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any owner of real property who fails to keep and repair the sidewalks
in front of or along such property if he or she resides thereon, or if he or
she does not reside thereon, to repair the same forthwith when notified is
liable to the district for damage caused by such neglect. The duty of the
district to notify the non-resident owner does not affect the liability of the
owner for any injury proximately caused by the negligent construction or repair
of the sidewalk.
   (B)   The failure of the district to notify the non-resident owner does not
result in any liability on the part of the district for any injury proximately
caused by the negligent construction or repair of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.02 NOTICE OF ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNERS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR SIDEWALK AND
SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The district may conduct a spring inspection of all sidewalks subject
to this chapter. In his or her sole discretion, the district may chose to
repair or replace said sidewalks.
   (B)   However, if the district determines that it is necessary to construct,
rebuild or repair any sidewalk, it may also notify all owners of lots adjoining
such sidewalk to construct, rebuild or repair the sidewalk at their own expense
within a time designated in the notice.
   (C)   Such notice shall be in writing and either be served personally or by
return receipt mail, on each owner or by publication once in each week for two
consecutive weeks. It shall set forth the character of the work and the time
within which it is to be done. Such notice may be general as to the owners but
shall be specific as to the description of such lots.
(Prior Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.03 DISTRICT CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR ON FAILURE BY ADJOINING OWNER.
   If such sidewalk is not constructed, reconstructed or repaired in the manner
and in the time prescribed pursuant to § 31.01, the Board of Supervisors by
resolution may cause the work to be done by day labor or by job. If the amount
of the contract is less than the amount provided for in SDCL § 5-18A-3, it is
not necessary to advertise for bids.
(Prior Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.04 ASSESSMENT OF SIDEWALK COSTS AGAINST ABUTTING PROPERTY.
   The costs thereof shall be assessed against the lots fronting or abutting
upon the sidewalk so constructed, reconstructed or repaired as provided in this
section or as may be hereinafter provided. In estimating such assessment, the
entire cost of the improvement, including all related costs, fronting on the
property to be assessed shall be divided by the number of feet fronting or
abutting on the same, and the quotient shall be the sum to be assessed per
front foot against each lot so fronting or abutting.
(Prior Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.05 FILING OF ASSESSMENT ROLL FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR AND COSTS
COVERED BY ASSESSMENT.
   After the completion or repair of said sidewalk, the District Engineer or
such other person designated for that purpose shall file in the office of the
District Secretary, an assessment roll showing the amount to be assessed
against each lot or parcel of ground which amount shall include the contract
price or the costs of the work-by-day labor, engineering and other costs
entering into such construction or repair, the description of the property
abutting upon said sidewalk which is to be assessed in the name of the owner or
owners thereof as shown by the records in the office of the County Director of
Equalization.
(Prior Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.06 DIVISION OF SIDEWALK ASSESSMENT INTO ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS AND NOTICE OF
FILING AND HEARING ON ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon the filing of the assessment roll, the Board of Supervisors shall by
resolution provide that the assessment shall be divided in any number of equal
annual installments not exceeding five and shall fix a time and place for
hearing upon the same not less than 20 days from the date of filing thereof.
The District Secretary shall publish a notice of the time and place of the
hearing one week before the date of hearing. The notice shall state the general
nature of the improvements for which the assessment is made, the date of filing
the assessment roll, and the roll will be open for public inspection at the
district office and shall refer to the assessment roll for further particulars.
(Prior Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.07 AMENDMENT AND APPROVAL OR REJECTION OF ASSESSMENT ROLL AND
CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY OFFICERS AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Upon the hearing, the Board of Supervisors may approve said roll with or
without amendment, or reject the same and upon the approval thereof shall
direct the District Secretary to file a certified copy of the assessment roll
in the office of the County Auditor who shall thereupon certify said assessment
to the County Treasurer to be collected in the manner provided for the
collection of special assessments as provided in SDCL Chapter 9-43 per SDCL §
7-25A-33.
(Prior Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.08 ASSESSMENT LAW APPLICABLE TO SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in SDCL § 7-25A-33, proceedings for
levy of and collecting sidewalk assessment shall be governed by and performed
according to the provisions of SDCL Chapter 9-43, including without limitation,
provisions relating to the mailing of notices of assessment hearings,
reassessment proceedings, the interest to be born by deferred installments, the
assessment roll, giving notice of filing, prepayments of deferred installments,
assessment certificates and bonds, actions and remedies, compromises and deeds
and settlement, and limitations of proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 5-8) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The construction of permanent sidewalk fronting or abutting all streets,
highways and avenues shall be accomplished by the builder, owner or developer
of all new or relocated residential and commercial buildings within the
geographic boundaries of the district, and shall comply with all applicable
covenants, design guidelines, rules and regulations. In addition, the builder,
owner or developer shall guarantee the workmanship on all sidewalks installed
in the district, including, but not limited to, sidewalks settling or cracking,
for a period of one year after installation.
(Prior Code, § 5-9) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.10 SIDEWALKS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The standards for repair and maintenance of the sidewalks as set forth
in this chapter shall be the same as those identified in SDCL Chapter 9-46 and
any case law interpreting SDCL Chapter 9-46.
   (B)   The sidewalks running parallel and adjacent to Dakota Dunes Boulevard,
Meadows Boulevard, Prairie Boulevard or other sidewalks within the boundaries
of the district which do not abut private property or property for which other
easements or arrangements have been made shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-10) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
CHAPTER 32: TREES AND PLANTS
Section
   
32.01   Definition
   
32.02   Control on private property
   
32.03   Rules and regulations
   
32.04   Duties of private owners
   
32.05   Order to preserve or remove
   
32.06   Cases of extreme danger
   
32.07   Time for compliance
   
32.08   Failure to comply
   
32.09   Special assessment
§ 32.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING STRIP. The area along the public streets and avenues between the
curb line and sidewalk line.
   STREET TREE or TREE. A tree in any parking strip, boulevard or other public
place, except where otherwise indicated.
(Prior Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.02 CONTROL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The District Manager shall have the authority to order the trimming,
preservation and removal of trees or plants upon private property when he or
she shall find such action necessary to public safety or to prevent the spread
of disease or insects to public trees and places.
(Prior Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors may adopt and enforce rules and regulations to
carry out the purposes of this chapter. Such rules and regulations may set
forth the amount to be charged for any permits required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-13) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF PRIVATE OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of any person growing a tree within the parking strip
or other public place or responsible for trees growing on property abutting on
public places supporting trees or plants to:
   (A)   Trim trees so as not to cause a hazard to public places or interfere
with the proper lighting of public streets or avenues by the street lights. All
large established trees shall be trimmed to sufficient height to allow free
passage of pedestrians and vehicular traffic and in such a manner as to allow a
minimum of ten feet clearance over sidewalks and 12 feet clearance over all
streets; and
   (B)   Treat and remove any tree or plant so diseased or insect ridden as to
constitute a hazard to trees or plants in public places.
(Prior Code, § 5-14) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.05 ORDER TO PRESERVE OR REMOVE.
   (A)   When the District Manager finds it necessary to order the trimming,
preservation or removal of trees or plants upon private property or in parking
strips or other public areas, he or she shall serve a written order, by
certified mail, to correct the dangerous condition upon the owner, operator,
occupant or other person responsible for its existence.
   (B)   The order to preserve or remove trees or plants shall set forth a time
limit for compliance, dependant upon the hazard and danger created by the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-15) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.06 CASES OF EXTREME DANGER.
   In cases of extreme danger to persons or public property, the District
Manager shall have the authority to require compliance immediately upon service
of the order.
(Prior Code, § 5-16) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.07 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   A person to whom an order to preserve or remove trees or plants is directed
shall have the right, within three days of the service of such order to appeal
to the Board of Supervisors who shall set forthwith a day for hearing thereon
and give notice thereof to the person appealing. Upon such hearing and review,
the Board may affirm, modify or revoke the order of the District Manager.
Unless the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain in full force and be
obeyed by the person to whom directed. No person to whom an order is directed
shall fail to comply with such order within five days after an appeal shall
have been determined.
(Prior Code, § 5-17) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.08 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   When a person to whom an order to preserve or remove trees or plants is
directed shall fail to comply within the specified time, the District Manager
shall remedy the condition or contract with others for such purpose and charge
the cost thereof to the person to whom the order is directed. The person
remedying a condition under a contract made under this section shall be
authorized to enter the premises for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-18) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.09 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   If the costs of remedying a condition for which an order to preserve or
remove trees or plants was issued is not paid within 30 days after receipt of a
statement therefor from the District Manager, such costs may be levied against
the property benefitted or upon which the condition existed as special
assessment, pursuant to SDCL Chapter 7-25A.
(Prior Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
CHAPTER 33: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
Section
   
33.01   Duty to remove
   
33.02   Indemnification
§ 33.01 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The owner or person in possession of any property abutting on any
sidewalk shall keep such sidewalk free from snow and ice and shall remove any
snow or ice from the sidewalk within 72 hours after the termination of any
snowfall, snow or ice accumulation.
   (B)   The owner or person in possession of any property abutting upon any
sidewalk which ends at an intersection or crosswalk shall maintain the sidewalk
free from snow and ice to the edge of the street. Snow and ice deposited on the
sidewalk in the street removal process shall be removed within hours of being
deposited.
   (C)   If the owner or person in possession of the property abutting upon any
sidewalk fails to remove the snow and ice from the sidewalk within hours, the
district, at its option, may do so and the cost shall be assessed to the
property owner in the amount of $250 for each time the district removes the
snow or ice.
   (D)   Disposal of snow and ice. The property owner or person in charge of
removing the snow/ice from any sidewalk, public or private driveway, parking
lot, or parking area must dispose of accumulated snow and ice upon the property
as follows:
      (1)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited on any sidewalk or in any park.
      (2)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited so as to obstruct or interfere
with the passage or vision of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 5-20) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 2024-05, passed 7-
15-2024)
§ 33.02 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The owner or person in possession of any property abutting on any sidewalk
as defined in this title, hereby indemnifies and holds the district harmless
from all costs, liabilities and claims for any damages of any kind arising out
of said owner or person’s duty to remove the snow and ice as set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 2003-02, passed 12-15-2003)
CHAPTER 34: RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
34.01   Declaration of findings and purpose; scope
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Right-of-way administration
   
34.04   Right-of-way permits
   
34.05   Construction and restoration
   
34.06   Enforcement of permit obligations
   
34.07   Right-of-way bonds
   
34.08   Indemnification and liability
   
34.09   General provisions
§ 34.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter shall be known as the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District Right-of-Way Construction and Administration Ordinance.
   (B)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   In order to provide for the health, safety and well-being of its
citizens, as well as to ensure the structural integrity of its streets and the
use of the right-of-way, the district strives to keep its right-of-way in a
state of good repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the
general population bears the financial burden for the upkeep of the right-of-
way, a primary cause for early and excessive deterioration of the district
right-of-way is the frequent excavation by persons whose equipment is located
therein.
      (2)   Right-of-way obstruction is a source of frustration for merchants,
business owners and the general population which must avoid these obstructions
or change travel plans because of them. Persons whose facilities are located
within the right-of-way are the primary cause of these frequent obstructions.
      (3)   The district recognizes that persons and business entities, by
placing their equipment in the right-of-way and charging the citizens of the
district for goods and services delivered thereby are using the property held
for the public good. Although such services are often necessary or convenient
for the citizens of the district, such persons and/or business entities receive
revenue and/or profit through the use of public property.
      (4)   Where roads are being constructed or reconstructed to the district
standards, existing facilities within the right-of-way which conflict with the
proposed construction may have to be modified or relocated.
(Prior Code, § 5-24)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate, obstruct or
construct any right-of-way.
   CONSTRUCT. To excavate, install poles, install signs or install facilities,
other than landscaping, on, above or under any part of the right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of the right-of way.
   FACILITIES. Any tangible thing located in any right-of-way, but shall not
include sidewalks and private driveway approaches, water sprinkler systems,
invisible dog fences, mailboxes, boulevard plantings or gardens in the right-
of-way.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   PERSON. Any natural or corporate person, business association or other
business entity, including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole
proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or private agency of any
kind, a utility, a successor or sign of any of the foregoing, or any other
legal entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface and space above and below any real property, in
which the district has an interest, whether held in fee, or other estate or
interest, or as trustee for the public, including, but not limited to, any
section line RIGHT-OF-WAY, public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway,
lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park or
any other place, area or real property owned by or under control of the
district. RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the standard ten feet utility easement platted
in the front ten feet of platted lots or any easements required by the district
through the platting process or through any other acquisition or transfer.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. All lines, cables, conduits, posts, tanks and any
other facilities owned or operated by persons other than the district which are
located wholly or partially underneath the right-of-way.
   UTILITY. Any water, sewer, gas, drainage or culvert pipe in any electric
power, telecommunication, signal, communication or cable television conduit,
fiber, wire, cable or operator thereof, other than utilities operated by the
district.
(Prior Code, § 5-25)
§ 34.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration and right-of-way occupancy. Each person who occupies,
uses or seeks to occupy or use the right-of-way for any facilities located in
the right-of-way, or who has or seeks to have facilities located in any right-
of-way shall register with the district.
   (B)   No construction without registration. No person may construct,
install, repair, remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any
facilities or any part thereof located in any right-of-way without being
registered with the district. Planting and maintaining vegetation in the right-
of-way is exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Registration information. The information provided to the district at
the time of registration, shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Registrant’s name, address, telephone, e-mail address and facsimile
number;
      (2)   The name, address, telephone, e-mail address and facsimile number
of a local representative who shall be available at all reasonable times;
      (3)   Proof that the registrant has secured the insurance specified below
in this division (C)(3). All insurance secured by the registrant under the
provisions of this division (C)(3) shall be issued by insurance companies
acceptable to the district and authorized to conduct business in the state.
Certificates of all required insurance shall be provided to the district prior
to conducting any work identified herein. The following insurance is required:
         (a)   Workers’ compensation insurance with statutory limits of the
workers’ compensation laws of the state and coverage B, employer’s liability,
covering operations of the registrant. This shall include other state’s
insurance so as to include all states not named on the declarations page of the
insurance policy. The available limits for coverage B, employer’s liability,
shall be not less than $1,000,000 each accident, $1,000,000 disease, policy
limits;
         (b)   Commercial general liability insurance providing coverage not
less than that of the standard commercial general liability insurance policy
(occurrence form for operations of the registrant). If the occurrence form is
not available, then claims made coverage shall be maintained for three years
after completion of any right-of-way project. The policy shall include
contractual, personal injury, bodily injury and property damage liability
coverages with total available limits not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence,
not less than $2,000,000 general aggregate, and $2,000,000 aggregate products
and completed operations. This commercial general liability insurance policy
shall name the district and its duly authorized representatives as an
additional insured. The district shall be provided with a copy of the
certificate and the policy endorsement prior to or upon execution of the
registration; and
         (c)   1.   Automobile liability insurance covering all owned, non-
owned and hired automobiles, trucks and trailers. Such insurance shall provide
coverage at least as broad as that found in the standard comprehensive
automobile liability policy with limits of not less than $1,000,000 combined
single limit each occurrence.
            2.   Registrant will provide the district with at least 30 days’
written notice of an insurer’s intent to cancel or not renew any of the
insurance coverages. Registrant agrees to hold the district harmless from any
liability, including additional premium due because of registrant’s failure to
maintain the coverage limits required. The district’s approval or acceptance of
these certificates of insurance does not constitute the district’s assumption
of responsibility for the validity of any insurance policies nor does the
district represent that the above coverages and limits are adequate to protect
any individual/group/business its consultants’ or subcontractors’ interests and
assumes no liability therefore.
      (4)   Proof that the person is a corporation, including written evidence
that it is authorized to do business in the state, is recorded and certified to
by the Secretary of State; and
      (5)   As built drawings and location of all facilities and underground
facilities in the district right-of-way property.
   (D)   Proof of posted bonds. Proof that the registrant has posted the bonds
required by this chapter. The registrant shall keep all the information listed
above current at all times by providing the district with information of
changes within ten days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
   (E)   Future uses. In permitting any facilities to be placed in the right-
of-way, the district is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any
registrant’s facilities that are already in place.
   (F)   Abandoned and unused facilities. Any registrant who has abandoned
facilities in any right-of-way that are interfering with construction or
reconstruction projects shall remove them from the right-of-way at the
registrant’s cost when requested by the district. Said facilities shall be
deemed abandoned pursuant to this section when the provisions of §
34.05(C)(2) apply and the registrant is provided with 30 days’ notice of the
district’s removal order and fails to substantially complete the removal of the
abandoned facilities within 180 days thereafter. The district may then take the
actions set forth in §
34.05(C)(2) and (C)(3).
(Prior Code, § 5-26)
§ 34.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may
construct in any right-of-way without first having obtained a permit as
provided herein.
      (2)   A construction permit allows the holder to construct in that part
of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and open passage
in the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing facilities as described
therein, to the extent and for the duration specified therein.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
       (1)   No permit shall be issued unless the following information has
been provided to the district:
         (a)   Evidence that the applicant is a registrant or is authorized to
apply for a permit on behalf of the registrant;
         (b)   If the applicant is proposing underground installation with new
ducts or conduits to be constructed in the right-of-way:
            1.   The location, depth, size and quantity of proposed new ducts
or conduits;
            2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of the applicants’ facilities; and
            3.   Drawings showing the location and the area of the proposed
project along with the location of all existing and proposed facilities and
underground facilities.
         (c)   A construction schedule and completion date; and
         (d)   Payment of all money due to the district for:
            1.   Prior construction permits issued to the applicant;
            2.   Any loss, damage or expense suffered by the district by
applicant’s prior construction in the right-of-way or any emergency actions
taken by the district; and
            3.   Any franchise or license issued to the registrant whose
facilities are being constructed.
      (2)   No permits for service drops or minor maintenance work of short
duration or limited scope shall be required unless street locations or service
drops or minor maintenance work are transmitted or called into the district,
noting if hard surface removal or street crossings are involved.
   (C)   Issuance of permit; conditions.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, excluding permits for service
drops or minor maintenance work of short duration or limited scope, the
applicant, upon request by the district, shall conduct, at its expense, a
subsurface utility study on the proposed route of a construction or an
extension. The study may include the following tasks to be determined in the
sole discretion of the district:
         (a)   Secure all available as-built plans, plats and all location data
indicating the existence and approximate location of all underground facilities
around the proposed construction route;
         (b)   Visibly survey and record the location and dimensions of any
above ground features of all underground facilities along the proposed
construction route, including, but not limited to, manholes, mailboxes, utility
boxes, posts and visible street cut repairs; and
         (c)   Plot and incorporate the data obtained from the completion of
the tasks described herein on the permittee’s proposed system route maps and
plan sheets. The permittee shall provide the district with this information.
      (2)   A permittee shall belong to the one call line location systems.
      (3)   The district may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
the permit to protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure the
instructional integrity of the right-of-way, to protect the property and safety
of other users of the right-of-way and to minimize the disruption and
inconvenience to the traveling public. Protective measures and devices will be
employed which are consistent with the uniform mutual traffic-control devices.
      (4)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to new construction
only if the construction is located outside the area designated by the
district’s design standards.
   (D)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The district may require prior payment of permit fees, as to be
determined from time to time by resolution of the Board.
      (2)   Permit fees paid for a permit that has been revoked are not
refundable.
      (3)   Any costs of inspection of facilities installed by any permittee or
any other costs incurred by the district as a result of permittee’s activities
in the right-of-way shall be reimbursed by said permittee to the district. Said
costs shall be paid within 30 days of the invoice date and shall not include
staff time of district employees.
   (E)   Joint applications. Applicants who make joint applications for
construction permits, for which construction is not performed by the district,
may share in the payment of the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-27)
§ 34.05 CONSTRUCTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Location of facilities. The district may limit or prohibit the
placement of new or additional facilities within the right-of-way if it
determines that there is insufficient space to accommodate the facilities.
Factors to be considered in determining the space availability include the
public interest, the conditions of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way and future district plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
   (B)   Least disruptive technology. Construction or maintenance of facilities
shall use all reasonable means to lessen damage and disruption of a right-of-
way. A permittee may not intrude into the right-of-way without first obtaining
permission from the District Manager. The district may, in its sole discretion,
require submission of a plan reflecting that the permittee will use methods to
lessen disruption of and in the right-of-way.
   (C)   Relocation of facilities.
      (1)   Prompt removal. A registrant shall promptly and at its own expense,
with due regard to seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate
its facilities within the right-of-way whenever the district requests removal
and relocation, and shall restore the right-of-way. The district may make the
request only when the facilities interfere with the safety and convenience of
ordinary travelers over the right-of-way.
      (2)   Failure of removal. Unless otherwise agreed to by the District
Manager, if in the reasonable judgment of the district, the registrant fails to
commence removal of its facilities within 30 days after the district’s removal
order, or the registrant fails to substantially complete the removal, including
all associated repair of the right-of-way of the district within 180 days
thereafter, the district may:
         (a)   Declare that all rights, title and interest to the facilities
belong to the district with all rights of ownership, including, but not limited
to, the right to connect and use facilities or to effect a transfer of all
rights, title and interests in the facilities to another person for operation;
or
         (b)   Authorize removal of the facilities installed by a registrant
on, over or under the right-of-way, at the registrant’s cost and expense, by
another person.
      (3)   Property of district. Any portion of the registrant’s facilities
on, over or under the right-of-way designated by the district for removal and
not timely removed by the registrant shall belong to and become the property of
the district without payment to the registrant and the registrant shall execute
and deliver such documents, as the district shall request, in form and
substance acceptable to the district, to evidence such ownership by the
district.
      (4)   Right-of-way restoration.
         (a)   The work to be done under the permit and the restoration of the
right-of-way must be completed within the date specified in the permit, giving
due regard to seasonal working conditions. In addition to its own work, the
permittee must restore the general area of the work, including the paving and
its foundations, to reasonably the same condition that existed before the
commencement of the work and must inspect the area of the work and use
reasonable care to maintain the same condition for 12 months thereafter.
         (b)   In approving an application for a construction permit, the
district may permit the permittee to restore the right-of-way or it may restore
the right-of-way itself.
         (c)   If the district restores the right-of-way itself, the permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If during the 24 months
following such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s unproper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the district within 30 days of billing,
the costs of repairing such pavement.
         (d)   If the district allows the permittee to restore the right-of-
way, the permittee shall, at the time of the application of a construction
permit, post a performance bond in the amount determined by the district to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoring the right-of-way to its pre-
excavation condition. If, 12 months (or 24 months for pavement) after
completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the district determines the
right-of-way has been properly restored, a surety on the performance bond shall
be released. The bond may be in the form of an annual right-of-way bond
covering all construction permits issued by the district during that year, or
an irrevocable unconditional letter of credit.
         (e)   The permittee shall perform the work according to the standards
and with the materials specified by the district. The district may prescribe
the manner, time frames and extent of restoration, and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case by case basis.
         (f)   By restoring the right-of-way itself, the permittee guarantees
its work for 12 months (or 24 months for pavement) following its completion.
During this period, it shall, upon notification from the district, correct all
restoration work to the extent necessary using the method required by the
district. Work shall be completed within 30 calendar days of receipt of notice
from the district.
         (g)   If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way in the manner
and to the condition required by the district, or fails to satisfactorily and
timely complete all repairs required by the district, the district, at its
option, may do such work. The permittee shall pay to the district, within 30
days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way.
      (5)   Damage to other facilities. When the district performs work in the
right-of-way which requires maintaining, supporting or moving a registrant’s
facilities to protect them, and the registrant does not perform such work, the
costs associated therewith will be billed to the registrant and shall be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall pay for
repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities
damaged.
      (6)   Installation requirements. The excavation, backfilling, restoration
and all other work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance
with district specification, if any should apply.
      (7)   Inspection. The permittee shall notify the district in advance of
the time the work under any permit hereunder is started. The permittee shall
make the work site available to the district for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution and upon completion of the work.
      (8)   Other obligations. Other obligations obtaining a right-of-way
permit does not relieve the permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary
permits, licenses and authority and to pay all fees required by any other
county, state or federal rules, laws or regulations.
         (a)   A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
performs the work.
         (b)   Any permittee shall contact all the abutting property owners in
order to identify any existing private facilities in the right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, sprinklers and other utility lines.
(Prior Code, § 5-28)
§ 34.06 ENFORCEMENT OF PERMIT OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Denial of permit.
      (1)   Mandatory denial. Except in the case of an emergency, no right-of-
way permit will be granted:
         (a)   To any person required to be registered who has not done so;
         (b)   To any person as whom there exists grounds for the revocation of
a permit; and
         (c)   If the issuance of a permit for the particular date and/or time
would cause a conflict or interfere with a public event, festival or
celebration, including, but not limited to, the Governor’s Cup Golf Classic.
The district shall be guided by the safety and convenience of the ordinary
travel of the public over the right-of-way and by considerations relating the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Discretionary denial. The district may deny a permit to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of the ordinary travel over the right-of-way, or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its users. The district, in its discretion, may
consider one or more the following factors:
         (a)   The extent to which the right-of-way space where permit is
sought is available;
         (b)   The competing demands for the particular space in the right-of-
way;
         (c)   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way or in
other rights-of-way for the facilities of the particular company;
         (d)   The applicability of ordinances or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of the facilities in the rights-of-way;
         (e)   The degree of compliance of the applicant with the terms and
conditions of its franchise, this chapter and other applicable ordinances and
regulations;
         (f)   The degree of disruption to the surrounding communities and
businesses that will result from the use of that part of the right-of-way;
         (g)   The condition and age of the right-of-way, and whether and when
it is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction;
         (h)   The balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and
damage to the right-of-way, against the benefits to that part of the public
served by the expansion into additional parts of the right-of-way; or
         (i)   Whether the applicant, has over the previous two years, complied
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Work done without a permit.
      (1)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
district of any emergency involving its facilities. The registrant shall take
whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
      (2)   Non-emergency situations. Except in the case of an emergency, any
person who obstructs or excavates a right-of-way without a permit must
subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the normal permit fee, pay double all
other fees required by the ordinance, deposit with the district the fees
necessary to correct any damage to the rights-of-way and comply with all
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   Any permit may be revoked by the district following a revocation
hearing held by the Board of Supervisors upon not less than ten days’ written
notice thereof to the permittee.
      (2)   If a permit is revoked, the permittee shall reimburse the district
for its reasonable costs, including restoration costs and the costs of
collection and reasonable attorneys fee incurred in connection with such
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)
§ 34.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY BONDS.
   (A)   Right-of-way bond. Prior to beginning construction, a permittee shall
deposit with the district an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit and/or
surety bond equal to 100% of the anticipated costs or such other lesser amount
established by the district.
   (B)   Purposes. The right-of-way bond shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee or registrant of the
requirements of this code, including restoration of the right-of-way;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, payment or loss incurred by the district
occasioned by the permittee or registrant’s violation of this code or its
failure to comply with all rules, regulation, order, permits and other
directives of the district issued pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   The payment of all compensation due to the district, including
permit fees;
      (4)   The payment of premiums for the required liability insurance;
      (5)   The payment to the district for any amounts for which the permittee
or registrant is liable that are not paid by its insurance; and
      (6)   The payment of any other amounts which become due to the district
pursuant to law.
   (C)   Form. The right-of-way bond shall contain the following endorsements:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be cancelled or not
renewed by surety nor the intention to cancel or not to renew be stated by the
surety until 30 days after completion of construction of the facilities and,
notwithstanding the foregoing, shall in no case be cancelled or renewed by the
surety until at least 30 days’ written notice to the Dakota Dunes Community
Improvement District of surety’s intention to cancel or renew this bond.”
(Prior Code, § 5-30)
§ 34.08 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Liability. The district does not accept liability by reason of the
acceptance of a registration or the grant of a right-of-way permit, and the
district does not assume any liability:
      (1)   For injuries to persons, damage to property or loss of service
claims by parties other than the registrant or the district; or
      (2)   For claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the
installation, presence, maintenance or operation of facilities by registrants
or activities of registrants.
   (B)   Registrant or permittee indemnifies district.
      (1)   By registering with the district, a registrant agrees or by
accepting a permit, a permittee is required to defend, indemnify and hold the
district whole and harmless from all costs, liabilities and claims for damages
of any kind arising out of the construction, presence, installation,
maintenance, repair or operation of its facilities or out of any activity
undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether any act or omission complained of
is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a right-of-way permit. It further
agrees it will not bring, or cause to be brought, any action, suit or other
proceeding damages, or seeking any other relief against the district for any
claim nor for any award arising out the presence, installation, maintenance or
operation of its facilities, or any activity undertaken in or near a right-of-
way, whether the act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by a right-of-way permit.
      (2)   The foregoing does not indemnify the district for its own
negligence except for claims arising out of or alleging the district’s
negligence where such negligence arises outdoors and is primarily related to
the presence, installation, construction, operation, maintenance or repair of
said facilities by the registrant or on the registrant’s behalf, included, by
not limited to, the issuance of permits and inspections of plans or work. This
section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity
otherwise available to the registrant or to the district; and the registrant,
in defending any action on behalf of the district, shall be entitled to assert
in any action every defense or immunity that the district could assert in its
own behalf.
(Prior Code, § 5-31)
§ 34.09 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The remedies provided in this chapter are not exclusive or in lieu of
other rights and remedies that the district may have at law or in equity. The
district may seek legal and equitable relief for actual or threatened injury to
the right-of-way, including damages to the right-of-way.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any registrant for damages to persons or properties caused by
defects, nor shall the district be held as assuming any such liability by
reason of the issuance of any permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-32) (Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
TITLE 4: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
40.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 40: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
40.01   Definition
   
40.02   Registrations; permitting; exceptions to permitting
   
40.03   Refusing to leave/trespass
   
40.04   Entrance to premises restricted
   
40.05   Misrepresentation
   
40.06   Hours of operation
   
40.07   Prohibited conduct
   
40.08   Permit required
   
40.09   Permit application
   
40.10   False information
   
40.11   Fingerprints and photographs
   
40.12   Permit fee
   
40.13   Permit issuance restricted
   
40.14   Permit display
   
40.15   Permit revocation and term
 
   
40.99   Penalty
§ 40.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the district or not, traveling
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street for the
purpose of selling or soliciting for sale of goods, wares, merchandise or
services, and shall also mean and include any person transacting a temporary
business within the district. PEDDLER shall include the terms “solicitor,”
“transient or itinerant merchant or vendor” or “transient or itinerant
photographer.”
(Prior Code, § 5-35)
§ 40.02 REGISTRATIONS; PERMITTING; EXCEPTIONS TO PERMITTING.
   (A)   Every peddler as defined in this chapter shall register annually with
the district, including those exempted from the permitting requirements of
division (C) below.
   (B)   Unless specifically exempted in division (C) below, every individual
and organization shall be required to obtain a permit from the district as set
forth in §
40.09.
   (C)   The following organizations are exempt from the permitting requirement
set forth in §
40.09:
      (1)   Solicitations, sales or distributions made by political,
charitable, educational or religious organizations which have registered with
the district’s office on forms provided by that office;
      (2)   Traveling salespersons doing business exclusively with retail
merchants, manufacturers, jobbers or public officials; and
      (3)   Members of professions licensed by the state which have continuing
education requirements.
(Prior Code, § 5-36)
§ 40.03 REFUSING TO LEAVE/TRESPASS.
   It is unlawful for any peddler who enters upon premises owned or leased by
another to refuse to leave the premises after having been notified by the owner
or possessor of the premises, or his or her agent, to leave the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-37) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.04 ENTRANCE TO PREMISES RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any peddler to enter upon any private premises when the
premises is posted with a sign stating “No Peddlers Allowed,” “No Soliciting”
or words to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 5-38) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.05 MISREPRESENTATION.
   It is unlawful for any peddler to make false or fraudulent statements
concerning the quality or nature of his or her goods, wares, merchandise or
services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the goods, wares,
merchandise or services.
(Prior Code, § 5-39) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any peddler or any other individual or organization to
engage in the business of peddling between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
the following morning, or at any time on Sundays, except by specific
appointment with or invitation from the prospective customer.
(Prior Code, § 5-40) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Any peddler selling or soliciting for sale goods, wares, merchandise or
services by traveling from place to place, house to house or street to street
shall not remain in any one place for a period longer than necessary to make a
sale after having been approached or stopped for that purpose. Selling or
soliciting and peddling from pushcarts, movable vehicles or similar movable
devices is prohibited other than as authorized by a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-41)
§ 40.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler within the
district without first obtaining a permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5-42) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.09 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this chapter
shall:
   (A)   Contain a statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any statement or federal
law or municipal ordinance or other code; the nature of the offense; the
punishment or penalty assessed therefore, if previously convicted; and the
place of conviction;
   (B)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept or
receive payment, or deposit money in advance of final delivery;
   (C)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the district;
   (D)   The local and permanent address of the applicant;
   (E)   The local and permanent address and the name of the person, if any,
that the applicant represents;
   (F)   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise or services the applicant wishes
to engage in such business within the district;
   (G)   The last five states, cities or towns wherein the applicant worked
before coming to the district;
   (H)   Such other relevant information as the district may require for the
investigation of the applicant; and
   (I)   Proof of state sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-43)
§ 40.10 FALSE INFORMATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading information in
connection with his or her application for a permit required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-44) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.11 FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS.
   At the request of the district, the applicant for a permit required by this
chapter shall submit to fingerprinting and photographing by the County Sheriff.
(Prior Code, § 5-45)
§ 40.12 PERMIT FEE.
   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter, the
applicant shall pay an annual permit fee of $250.
(Prior Code, § 5-46) (Ord. 2024-05, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 40.13 PERMIT ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   No peddler’s permit shall be issued to a corporation, partnership or other
legal entity, but each individual person engaging in the business of peddling
within the district shall be required to have a permit whether acting for
himself or herself or as an agent or representative of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-47)
§ 40.14 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   Every peddler having a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
and doing business within the district shall display his or her permit upon the
request of any person, and failure to do so shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-48) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.15 PERMIT REVOCATION AND TERM.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked for
the violation by the permittee of any provision of this code, state law or
district ordinance. Upon such revocation, such permit shall immediately be
surrendered to the district, and failure to do so shall be unlawful. Any permit
or registration issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of each
year unless otherwise specified.
(Prior Code, § 5-49)
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be fined a maximum of $500,
and every day a violation exits or occurs shall constitute a separate offense
and be punishable as a such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-50) (Ord. 2009-01, passed - - )
TITLE 5: UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Scope of chapter
   
50.03   Termination of service authorized
   
50.04   Liability of district
   
50.05   Utility service
   
50.06   Interruption of service
   
50.07   Sale of service by consumer
   
50.08   Authorized persons
   
50.09   Right of entry
   
50.10   Damage; trespass of equipment
   
50.11   Restricting use
   
50.12   Permit to raze or remove building required
   
50.13   Disconnection
   
50.14   Utility system
   
50.15   Plumber’s bonds
   
50.16   Pipe testing
   
50.17   Suspension
   
50.18   Floodplain
Rates and Charges
   
50.30   Determination of charges
   
50.31   Billing
   
50.32   Late payment penalty
   
50.33   Disconnection for non-payment of bill
   
50.34   Voluntary discontinuance of service
   
50.35   Establishing fees
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 52
   Water, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of the Dakota Dunes Community Improvement
District.
   CONSUMER. The owner or occupant of the premises to which utility services
are furnished by the district.
   DISTRICT, IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT or COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT. The Dakota
Dunes Community Improvement District.
   DISTRICT MANAGER. The District Manager employed by the Dakota Dunes
Community Improvement District or his or her duly authorized representative.
   PLUMBER. Whenever in reference to building interior work, only PLUMBERS who
are licensed in the state. Whenever in reference to exterior work, both
PLUMBERS and utility contractors who are licensed in the state.
   UTILITY. The water and sewer and/or any other utility services furnished by
the district to consumers thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 50.02 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms
and conditions whereby the district shall furnish any utility service to any
person; or whereby the district shall make any utility connection or perform
any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service.
(Prior Code, § 7-112)
§ 50.03 TERMINATION OF SERVICE AUTHORIZED.
   The district shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or
reconnect any utility service for the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law;
   (B)   Violations of the ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to
utilities;
   (C)   Non-payment of bills unless the non-payment is for an unrelated
service;
   (D)   Willful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect
pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise;
   (E)   Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating
the supply of utility service;
   (F)   Theft or diversion and/or use of service without payment therefor;
   (G)   Vacancy of premises;
   (H)   Failure to provide access to premises for the purpose of reading any
meter, or other purposes authorized by this chapter;
   (I)   Failure to fulfill contractual obligations for utility services
provided by the district; or
   (J)   Failure of the consumer to obtain permits, certificates of occupancy
or other forms of authorization from the district, as required by the district
ordinances or other applicable provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 7-113)
§ 50.04 LIABILITY OF DISTRICT.
   The district shall not be liable for any damage to the property of any
consumer of any utility service furnished by the district, including, but not
limited to, due to backflow of the sewerage system, failure of the water
supply, variations in water pressure, ram of water from the mains, collapse or
any other cause whatever.
(Prior Code, § 7-114)
§ 50.05 UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   Application required. Any person desiring any utility service
furnished by the district shall make application for the same to the district.
Such application shall be in a form prescribed by the Board. A separate
application shall be made for each premise to be served. The applicant shall
abide by the rules and regulations established by the district relative to
utility service in effect at the time of application and as they may be revised
from time to time. Such application shall be filed at the district office
before service will be provided by the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-115)
   (B)   Refusal of service. The district may decline or fail or cease to
furnish utility service to any person who may be in debt to the district for
any reason, except special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 7-116)
   (C)   Use assumed. All premises connected to any utility service of the
district may be assumed to be using such service and the owner or occupant
shall be charged therefor as long as such premises shall remain connected with
the utility service.
(Prior Code, § 7-117)
§ 50.06 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   Consumers of any utility service furnished by the district are hereby
notified that the supply of such utility may be temporarily shut off at any
time. Notice shall be given, if feasible, of the contemplated shutoff, but
accidents may render this impossible; hence the district hereby warns those
dependent upon the utility service for any purpose of this hazard. Immediately
upon finding the supply shut off, it becomes the duty of the occupant of the
premises to take prompt precautions to prevent damages. The district shall not
be liable for any damage resulting from such temporary cessation of service.
(Prior Code, § 7-118)
§ 50.07 SALE OF SERVICE BY CONSUMER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resell any utility service obtained
from the district to others except upon written agreement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-119)
§ 50.08 AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No person, other than employees or agents of the district, shall be
authorized to connect, turn on or turn off any utility service offered by the
district.
(Prior Code, § 7-121) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 50.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The District Manager or his or her authorized agent shall have free
access at any time to all premises supplied with any utility service by the
district at such reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation,
set up and use of monitoring equipment, sampling and testing; provided that if
such property is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner of such property and request entry. If entry is refused or
cannot be obtained because the owner of such property cannot be found, the
district shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful
entry for the above stated purposes.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the district has reasonable cause to
believe that waters or wastes are being discharged from any property into a
public sewer or natural outlet and has reasonable cause to believe that such
discharge is so dangerous, hazardous or unsafe as to require immediate
inspection to safeguard the public health and safety, the District Manager or
his or her authorized agent shall have the right to immediately enter and
inspect such property and may use any reasonable means required to effect such
entry and make such inspection, whether such property is occupied or unoccupied
and whether or not permission to inspect has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 7-122)
§ 50.10 DAMAGE; TRESPASS OF EQUIPMENT.
   No person, other than employees or agents of the district, shall be
authorized to open any water hydrant or tamper with any utility service
furnished by the district to consumers.
(Prior Code, § 7-123)
§ 50.11 RESTRICTING USE.
   The district hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent
the use of any utility service furnished by the district during periods of
emergency or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
(Prior Code, § 7-124)
§ 50.12 PERMIT TO RAZE OR REMOVE BUILDING REQUIRED.
   No person shall raze or remove any building or structure, which is connected
to the sanitary sewer and/or water utility, without first having obtained
approval from the District Manager.
(Prior Code, § 7-125)
§ 50.13 DISCONNECTION.
   When a disconnection from the sanitary sewer and/or water main is made, the
sewer and/or water service shall be closed to the satisfaction of the District
Manager. Closure for sewer shall be at the property line of commercial and
residential property. Closure for water service shall be at the water main for
commercial and residential property. The sewer and/or water services shall be
capped within 30 days of the removal or razing of the building. The District
Manager may grant exceptions to this section in writing.
(Prior Code, § 7-126)
§ 50.14 UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   New construction or modification. No utility on private premises shall
be built, repaired, extended or connected to the public utility without making
application to the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-127)
   (B)   Application. All applications for utility new construction or
modification of a utility on private premises shall be signed by the consumer
and the plumber employed to do the work. The application shall be accompanied
by a plan and drawing showing the proposed work. Before an application is
approved, the district may review the premises or the proposed installation to
ascertain if the installation is proper and in compliance with local, state and
federal laws, ordinances and regulations and that the statements in the
application are true. The district shall approve the application after the
applicant has paid to the district all fees associated therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-128)
   (C)   Connection. Upon approval of the application, the person to whom it is
granted may proceed with the work in accordance with the approved plan and
drawings. The applicant shall notify the district of the progress of the work
at such stages during the construction as the district may direct and in
particular shall notify the district when the building utility system is
complete and ready for connection with the public utility. The district shall
be given an opportunity to inspect the work after it is completed but prior to
covering.
(Prior Code, § 7-129)
   (D)   Excavations. All excavations on district property and backfilling
thereof shall be done in accordance with the district’s ordinances and
requirements found in Title 3.
(Prior Code, § 7-130)
   (E)   Indemnification. The applicant shall indemnify and save harmless the
district from any claims of injury, loss or damage to third parties arising out
of the construction work; this provision is a condition to the approval of the
application. The district may, as a condition to granting approval, require the
applicant to file a corporate surety bond for a period of two years.
(Prior Code, § 7-131)
§ 50.15 PLUMBER’S BONDS.
   No person shall make any connection to or perform any work upon any of the
public utilities in the district until he or she has first filed a bond in the
office of the district in the penal sum of $5,000 from sufficient sureties,
approved by the district, and shall have received from the district a permit to
perform such work. Said bond shall be conditioned as follows: that the
applicant will in all respects, in doing such work, be governed strictly by the
laws of the state, United States, district ordinances and the Uniform Plumbing
Code; that the applicant will pay to said district any and all damages it may
sustain by reason of violation of such rules and regulations, and for any
negligence or want of due care in doing any work in or about the property
belonging to said district. The following rules shall be strictly adhered to by
all persons performing any plumbing work who enter upon any of the public sewer
connections or appliances, public water system, or other public utilities,
pertaining to the district, and any violation thereof or failure to comply
therewith shall be considered a violation and breach of the condition of the
bond hereinabove mentioned.
   (A)   Bond renewal. Any plumber doing any work upon a district utility or
connection thereto will be required to file a bond, which bond shall be renewed
or reissued and filed with the district annually.
   (B)   Nonassignable. No plumber shall directly or indirectly allow any other
person to do any work upon said public utility or appliances under his or her
bond.
   (C)   License. All individuals performing work authorized by this chapter
shall be plumbers who are licensed in the state and shall be governed by the
Uniform Plumbing Code, the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9, the rules and
ordinances of the district, the State Plumbing Code, the laws of the state and
Iowa as they pertain to the wastewater treatment system, the laws of the United
States, particularly the Environmental Protection Agency, insofar as said
rules, regulations, laws and ordinances are applicable to the work the licensed
plumber may be performing.
(Prior Code, § 7-132)
§ 50.16 PIPE TESTING.
   No pipes laid underground shall be covered or the trenches filled up by any
plumber until after the pipes have been tested and found to be water-tight.
Said pipes and connections shall be tested and inspected by the district during
normal working hours. The plumber shall give the district 48 hours’ notice
prior to testing of the pipes.
(Prior Code, § 7-133)
§ 50.17 SUSPENSION.
   The district shall have authority to suspend the right of any plumber to
make connection to district property for non-compliance with these rules and
regulations. Such suspension shall take effect immediately and shall remain in
effect until the alleged violation and suspension can be reviewed by the
district.
(Prior Code, § 7-134)
§ 50.18 FLOODPLAIN.
   In a floodable area as identified by the flood insurance study issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Administration, or in any other known floodable
area as designated by the district, all new or replacement installations shall
be designed and constructed to eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters.
(Prior Code, § 7-135)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.30 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for the consumption of utility services furnished by
the district, as well as the charges and fees for connections thereto, shall be
determined by the Board of Supervisors as set by ordinance adopted by the Board
of Supervisors from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-16)
§ 50.31 BILLING.
   All utility consumers shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular
monthly period shall be made within 30 days after the end of that billing
period. Payments are due when billings are made. Any portion of the billing not
paid prior to the next billing cycle shall be considered delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 7-17) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 50.32 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   A late payment penalty of 10% of the unpaid portion of the bill will be
added to each delinquent bill.
(Prior Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 50.33 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF BILL.
   When any bill is 30 days delinquent and equals or exceeds $150, the district
shall have the right to disconnect and discontinue all utility services
furnished by the district to the consumer until all delinquent amounts are
paid, and the consumer will pay a $150 fee for connection prior to service
being restored.
(Prior Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-15-
2024)
§ 50.34 VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Consumers wishing to discontinue the use of any utility service shall give
at least 48-hours’ written notice to the district. The consumer shall be
responsible for providing access to the premises for purposes of reading or
removal of the meter by the district, which shall be between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Prior Code, § 7-21) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 50.35 ESTABLISHING FEES.
   The Board of Supervisors shall establish fees for the recovery of direct
expenses as set by a resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-22)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Owner’s responsibility
   
51.02   Connecting pipes between adjoining premises
   
51.03   Placement of curb box and valves
   
51.04   Types of pipe
   
51.05   Curb valve specification
   
51.06   Meters
   
51.07   Two or more meters on one service connection
   
51.08   All water to be metered
   
51.09   Automatic fire sprinklers
   
51.10   Emergency or temporary needs
   
51.11   Water for building purposes
   
51.12   Meter testing
   
51.13   Violations
   
51.14   Regulation of water uses
   
51.15   Plumber’s rules
Rates and Charges
   
51.30   Application for water/deposit
   
51.31   Separate owners
   
51.32   Connection charge
   
51.33   Service terms
   
51.34   Connections to automatic fire sprinklers
   
51.35   Multiple use building
   
51.36   Tap restrictions
   
51.37   Rates and charges
   
Appendix A: Water Service Line Details
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises served by water shall be responsible for the
installation, operation, maintenance, repair or replacement of any service pipe
extending from the point where such service, including the saddle, pipe
connects to the district’s water mains to and throughout the premises to which
water service is rendered, and for all apparatus attached thereto. Such
obligation shall include without limitation the duty to protect such pipe from
frost and other danger and to keep all attached apparatus in good working
order.
(Prior Code, § 7-151) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 51.02 CONNECTING PIPES BETWEEN ADJOINING PREMISES.
   No person shall be permitted to construct water pipes across lots or
buildings adjoining premises, but all service pipes shall enter at the front of
the building nearest the front lot line. In unusual cases, the district may
permit deviations from this rule. The reason or reasons for any deviation shall
be in writing and filed with the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-152)
§ 51.03 PLACEMENT OF CURB BOX AND VALVES.
   The valve boxes and valves for controlling the supply of water to a unit
shall be placed in accordance with the approved district drawings in
Appendix A of this chapter. In cases where this rule creates difficult
construction problems, the District Manager may allow deviations therefrom. The
reason or reasons for any deviation shall be in writing and filed with the
district.
(Prior Code, § 7-153)
§ 51.04 TYPES OF PIPE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, owners will be required to use, in making
connections with the water mains of the district between the main and the curb
valve, Type K copper pipe with flanged fittings or polyethylene (PE) 3406 with
a minimum pressure rating of 200 psi, and shall be installed as shown on the
district drawings in Appendix A of this chapter. Galvanized or lead base pipe
may not be used in installing service lines from the curb valve into the
owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 7-154)
§ 51.05 CURB VALVE SPECIFICATION.
   All curb valves on line of service pipe or branches underground must be
valves with round ways of the same diameter as the pipe with which they are
placed. They must have a solid T handle which will turn 360 degrees. Service
pipes must be laid at least six feet below the finished surface of the ground.
All rods attached to stop valves must not be less than one-third inch square or
five-eighths inch round iron, and when they are placed outside the building,
they must be boxed up and covered, so as to be accessible at all times in cases
of leaks. The owner or occupant of each premises shall keep on file the
locational dimensions of the curb box, tied to the nearest corners of the
structure being served.
(Prior Code, § 7-155)
§ 51.06 METERS.
   (A)   On or after the effective date of this chapter, the district will
furnish and maintain all meters and related equipment with automatic meter
reading for meter sizes up to five-eighths inch by three- fourths inch. Meters
over five-eighths inch by three-fourths inch and related equipment required to
provide automatic meter reading service shall be purchased by the owner after
approval by the district. Meters shall be installed by the owner in a location
to be approved by the district. Installation and replacement shall be at the
owner’s expense. After installation, all meters shall become property of the
district.
   (B)   The district shall maintain meters and related equipment which
malfunction. The owner or occupant where the meter is installed will be
responsible for all other maintenance, including, but not limited to, damage
resulting from acts or omissions of anyone except the district, its employees
and agents, care and protection from freezing or from being improperly set. The
cost of repairs, if performed by the district, shall be charged to the owner or
occupant.
   (C)   In case of any damage to the meter, or related equipment, or in case
of its stoppage or imperfect working, the owner or occupant shall give
immediate notice to the District Manager.
   (D)   (1)   In the event that any of the following occur: technology updates
become necessary to the meter system; a meter has exceed its useful life; the
meter has produced a zero meter read; and the meter no longer communicates
readings, access will be requested by the district to update or replace the
meter.
      (2)   Access to the meter shall be first requested by a phone call to the
number of record of the property owners(s). If this is unsuccessful, notice
will then be posted to the door of the owner(s). If no response is received
after the time frame identified on the posted notice, a formal 20-day written
notice shall be issued to the property owner(s). Such formal notice shall
indicate that the water to the property will be shut off if access to the meter
update request is not received with the 20-day notice period.
(Prior Code, § 7-156) (Ord. 2020-02, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.07 TWO OR MORE METERS ON ONE SERVICE CONNECTION.
   In the event that two or more meters are placed by permission of the
District Manager upon one service connection, they shall be so placed that not
one of them shall measure water which has passed through another meter;
provided, however, that in cases of commercial, retail office, apartment or
multi-family dwellings where the owner thereof desires to have each tenant
metered separately, the owner may, with district permission, install one master
meter which allows the district to bill the owner solely upon the water
consumed through this meter, but which permits the owner to provide and
install, at his or her own expense, submeters to measure the quantity consumed
by each tenant. In this case, the owner must assume the responsibility for
maintaining, reading and billing the submeters.
(Prior Code, § 7-157)
 § 51.08 ALL WATER TO BE METERED.
   Except as noted in §§
51.09 and
51.10, all water consumed for any purpose whatsoever shall be metered. All
meters shall be placed on the service pipe at a point not to exceed two feet
from the place where such pipe enters the structure or premises. A stop valve
shall be installed between such meter and the wall and such meter and related
equipment shall be so placed as to be kept dry, clean and readily accessible to
the meter reader.
(Prior Code, § 7-158)
§ 51.09 AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS.
   An annual demand charge for automatic sprinkler systems shall be made as set
by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Prior Code, § 7-159)
§ 51.10 EMERGENCY OR TEMPORARY NEEDS.
   To meet emergency or temporary needs for water, the district is authorized
to arrange for un-metered supplies, making such charges therefor as seem
equitable and in reasonable accord with the rates charged for metered water. A
monthly use charge of $35 will be charged to all temporary water accounts in
addition to a charge of $3.50 per thousand gallons of water used.
(Prior Code, § 7-160) (Ord. 2016-03, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-
15-2024)
§ 51.11 WATER FOR BUILDING PURPOSES.
   Contractors, builders or others desiring water for building purposes must
make application to the District Manager therefore, who will make special
arrangements for such supply as is required.
(Prior Code, § 7-161)
§ 51.12 METER TESTING.
   (A)   Should any consumer have reason to believe the meter installed in his
or her premises is not recording water consumption accurately, they may make
demand upon the District Manager that the meter be given a special test.
Thereupon, the district shall promptly cause the test to be made.
   (B)   If the test shows that the meter is “slow” (i.e., recording less than
97% of the water actually passing through it), or if the test shows that the
meter is “fast” (i.e. recording more than 103% of the water actually passing
through it), no special testing fee shall be charged by the district. If the
test shows the meter is slow, the district reserves the right to back bill the
consumer for the previous 12 months. If the test shows the meter is fast, a
reasonable adjustment shall be made by the district as agreed upon by the
district and consumer, or based on the previous meter set or test period, in no
case to exceed the previous 12-month period.
   (C)   If the test shows the meter is “accurate” (i.e. recording plus or
minus 3% of the water actually passing through it), a special testing charge of
$150 for five-eighths inches by three-fourths inches, and actual costs for
meters larger than this shall be added to the consumer’s next water bill.
   (D)   The district may initiate meter changes based on the age of a meter,
the amount of usage, and the like. No charge to the consumer will be made for
service or testing of meters, however, the “fast” and “slow” rules for back
billing may be applied.
(Prior Code, § 7-162) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-15-
2024)
§ 51.13 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall, by himself or herself, or by any other person acting under
his or her authority, use or take water from any part of the district without a
permit or shall have authority to open or hitch to, dig out, curb over or
remove any fire plug or hydrant, curb box valve, valve box or other fixture
appertaining to said district, or shall turn on or shut off water into or from
any pipe wherever situated. Said violator shall be liable for any damage
resulting therefrom and subject to suspension from performing any future work
within the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-163)
§ 51.14 REGULATION OF WATER USES.
   (A)   Standard water usage restrictions and conservation.
      (1)   (a)   Lawn sprinkler systems shall be scheduled for operation in
accordance with this chapter at all times. The maximum rate of water demand by
residential sprinkler systems shall not exceed 15 gallons per minute and shall
operate in accordance with the following schedule.
         (b)   Prior to any use, commercial consumers must submit an irrigation
system plan and/or lawn sprinkler system plan which must be pre-approved in
writing by the District Manager. The maximum rate of water demand by commercial
sprinkler systems shall not exceed 50 gallons per minute unless said commercial
user submits an irrigation system plan with justification for variance from
this restriction, which is pre-approved in writing by the District Manager.
Notwithstanding the restriction of 50 gallons per minute, commercial consumers
who have any irrigation system plan in place as of the date of this chapter
which has been pre-approved in writing by the District Manager are not subject
to said 50 gallons per minute restriction. All consumers shall irrigate and use
district water in accordance with the following schedule.
 
Location                   Days of Operation         Hours of Operation
All residential houses and
commercial business (using Tuesday/Thursday/Saturday 12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m.
potable water) with odd
numbered addresses
All residential houses and
commercial business (using Wednesday/Friday/Sunday   12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m.
potable water) with even
numbered addresses
 
      (2)   Special permits for new lawns may be obtained from the district to
allow for 30-day period for establishment of the lawns.
      (3) The district shall have the authority pursuant to this chapter, but
not the obligation, to disconnect sprinkler systems and/or water service, at
the main or curb-cock, of any consumer who violates this chapter and/or does
not adhere to the watering schedules set forth above.
   (B)   Prohibited acts during water emergency. The proclamation declaring a
water emergency shall set forth one or more of the following actions as being
prohibited during the water emergency:
      (1)    Watering of lawns, trees, bushes, shrubs, gardens and other
vegetation except at such times and at such locations as the District Manager
or his or her designee shall deem appropriate under the circumstances;
      (2)   Washing of automobiles, trucks and other vehicles; and
      (3)   Filling, in whole or in part, swimming pools.
(Prior Code, § 7-164) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2001-1, passed 2-28-
2001)
§ 51.15 PLUMBER’S RULES.
   The following rules shall be strictly adhered to by all persons performing
any plumbing work in or upon any of the water mains, connections or appliances
pertaining to the district, and any violation thereof or failure to comply
therewith or to comply with the other ordinances and regulations of the
district shall be considered a violation and breach of the condition of the
plumber’s bond required in
Chapter 50.
   (A)   Rule 1: backflow preventer. A backflow preventer shall be placed on
all service lines prior to the meter.
   (B)   Rule 2: pipes to be blown out. Plumbers must first blow out the pipes
before setting any meter, and the meter must in all cases be set without the
use of red lead or any other substance for packing in the fittings and must be
set level and made firm by resting on proper support.
   (C)   Rule 3: test and inspection of water pipes. No water pipes laid
underground shall be covered and the trenches filed up by any plumber until
after the water has entered into such pipes under pressure and the same pipes
shall have been tested and found to be watertight, and said pipes and
connections shall be tested and inspected by the district during normal working
hours. The plumber shall give the district 48 hours’ notice prior to testing of
the water pipes.
   (D)   Rule 4: water shut off by the district. In no case shall the plumber
operate valves, whether they be curb valves or street valves, for any purpose.
The district shall be notified to turn the water off. In all cases, when the
plumber shall have completed his or her work, he or she shall leave the water
turned off and the district shall be notified to turn the water on.
   (E)   Rule 5: proper wrench to open curb box. The opening of curb boxes by
plumbers by any means other than a proper wrench is strictly forbidden. All
plumbers must have a curb box wrench attached to their keys for opening and
closing curb boxes. Any plumber breaking a curb box cover or bolt will be
required to pay for the full repair of the same.
   (F)   Rule 6: meters outside cellar. All meters located outside of the
structure must be placed in boxes. All boxes for meters located outside of the
structure must be constructed of brick or concrete and be four feet in diameter
inside measurements, and be supplied with a close fitting frost proof cover.
Steps made from corrosion proof materials shall be placed inside the box to
enable one to descend without difficulty.
   (G)   Rule 7: suspension of plumber. In addition to the district’s remedies
under the plumber’s bond as set forth in
Chapter 50, the district shall have the authority to suspend the right of any
plumber to make connections to district property for non-compliance with these
rules and regulations. Such suspension shall take effect immediately and shall
remain in effect until the alleged violation and suspension can be reviewed by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (H)   Rule 8: review. The district shall review, and the Board of
Supervisors shall approve, the plans and specifications of all extensions of
the district water system. The plans and specifications of the water
distribution system shall be prepared by a professional engineer licensed in
the state to prepare the plans and specifications. The district will require
valving, pipe size hydrants and other appurtenances in accordance with the
aforementioned standards and the regulations of the state. Maximum spacing
between hydrants shall be 600 feet. All plans and specifications shall be
approved by the district prior to commencing work.
(Prior Code, § 7-165)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.30 APPLICATION FOR WATER/DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Application. A written application form provided by the district for
water service must be made by the owner or owner’s agent of the property to the
District Secretary stating the address where such water is desired. Said
applicant shall also sign a contract provided by the district to be filed in
district office before a permit may be issued by the district authorizing
connections to be made.
   (B)   Deposit required. Along with the application for utility service, an
applicant who does not own the property where service is being requested shall
be required to pay to the district a deposit of $100 pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Refund of deposit. Upon application of the depositor, refunds of
deposits made for utility service may be made after two years or upon the
termination of utility service after payment of all indebtedness to the
district for utility service. Upon request of the depositor, the district may
refund the deposit under the following conditions:
      (1)   The depositor has not been assessed more than three late fees
within the past 24 months;
      (2)   The depositor has not been issued a final notice before termination
within the past 24 months;
      (3)   The depositor has not had the utility service terminated within the
past 36 months; and
      (4)   The depositor has not issued a dishonored check within the past 36
months.
   (D)   Effect of transfer, moving. There shall be no transfer from one
location to another of deposits made for utility service and in each case the
transfer shall be considered a new application for service and shall be treated
as such. When premises are vacated, any amounts due for water service shall be
paid in full and utility service shall not be commenced at another place until
this is accomplished. Such removal from one place to another shall be
considered as a new request for utility service and applicants shall be
required to make the current deposit that shall be in effect at the time such
request is made.
(Prior Code, § 7-51) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-
15-2024)
§ 51.31 SEPARATE OWNERS.
   Two or more premises with separate owners cannot be supplied from a single
connection.
(Prior Code, § 7-52)
§ 51.32 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Connection process.
      (1)   No connection (or tap) shall be made to the water supply system or
main until the applicant for whom such connection is to be made has signed the
agreement required by ordinance, and a plumber’s permit has been issued
authorizing said plumber to make such connection. All connections will conform
to the application of this chapter and Appendix A of this chapter. Residential
water service lines shall not exceed two inches in diameter and shall be
installed with a tracer wire from the water main through the valve box to the
surface of the foundation. Owner shall be responsible for installation,
maintenance and service of the water line from the water main line. Developer
may provide water lines to the property, however, the owner shall remain liable
for said water line.
      (2)   In all cases, the district will provide a list of acceptable
materials to be used, however, the district makes no representations or
warranties as to the quality of said materials. The district shall not be
responsible for the materials and equipment accepted by the plumber for his or
her use.
   (B)   Engineer’s plan. Prior to connection to the district public water
supply, the developer and/or owner shall submit an engineer’s plan which must
comply with all district specifications and standards for initial approval by
the Board. Upon initial approval by the Board, the developer and/or owner must
complete installation of all infrastructure including a new public water main
which meets all district standards and specifications. An inspection, to
include standard final testing and obtaining lien waivers where necessary,
shall then be completed prior to the final approval by the Board and acceptance
by the Board for public use.
   (C)   Criteria for connection. The District Manager or his or her designee
shall first determine if the following criteria have all been met prior to
permitting connection:
      (1)   The district has the capacity for the proposed connection;
      (2)   All platting and zoning requirements have been met;
      (3)   The property or properties requesting a connection is or are
currently subject to and in compliance with the community association or
commercial association declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions;
      (4)   Any district connection fees approved by resolution of the Board
have been paid in full; and
      (5)   The requesting property is consistent with the water/sewer use plan
adopted by the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-53) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2008-02, passed 11-17-
2008; Ord. 2020-03, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.33 SERVICE TERMS.
   (A)   A charge shall be assessed by the district for setting a water meter
and turning on water for the consumer in the amount of $250 for a five-eighths
inch meter. Anything greater than five-eighths inch meters will be billed
directly to and paid for by the user, at meter cost.
   (B)   For the purposes of reading consumers’ meters, where a radio read
device is not available or per customer request is removed, an additional
charge of $35 per month will be charged for the manual reading of such meters.
(Prior Code, § 7-54) (Ord. 2016-02, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-
15-2024)
§ 51.34 CONNECTIONS TO AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS.
   (A)   Connections to automatic fire sprinklers may be made in such a manner
that the water used therein does not pass through the water meter, provided
such sprinkler systems are of the so-called “drip/pipe” type or are so equipped
that any flow of water therein automatically registers an alarm of fire in the
Dakota Valley Fire District station, or any private security alarm system.
   (B)   An annual demand charge for automatic sprinkler systems shall be made
as follows:
 
4" connection but less than 6" $270
6" connection but less than 8" $360
8" connection or larger        $540
 
(Prior Code, § 7-55) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-15-
2024)
§ 51.35 MULTIPLE USE BUILDING.
   In cases of commercial, retail, office, apartment or other multiple use
buildings, the water use shall be measured by the master water meter, which
shall be operable and accurate as to measuring the quantity of water consumed,
and which water meter shall be read as to the quantity of water consumed and
the owner of such buildings shall be billed at the rates and charges provided
herein each month of a year for all water consumed. The owner of such buildings
may, for such owner’s own purpose and with the permission of the District
Manger, and without cost to the district, install a water meter for each
individual tenant for the purpose of billing each individual tenant as to the
quantity of water consumed by each tenant. It shall be the responsibility of
the owner of any multiple use building to report to the District Secretary the
name of any new tenant and any removal of a tenant from the premises being
leased in instances where such owner does not have a master water meter
installed as hereinbefore provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-56)
§ 51.36 TAP RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The maximum size of tap with a saddle shall be as follows:
 
Pipe Size Tap Size
4"        1"
8"        1"
10"       1"
12"       2"
14"       2"
 
   (B)   All connections larger than the above maximum size shall be made in a
manner approved by the district as follows.
      (1)   Option one. The district shall schedule water shut off and the
applicant shall install a tee fitting in the water main.
      (2)   Option two. The applicant shall install a tapping tee with valve
and tap the line under pressure.
   (C)   All costs for the larger connection shall be billed directly to the
owner. The larger connection shall be made by a utility contractor approved by
the district.
   (D)   The district shall observe all connections to their water main and an
authorized representative of the district shall sign the plumber’s connection
permit prior to the placement of backfill in the water service connection and
line excavation.
(Prior Code, § 7-57) (Ord. 94-2, passed 11-21-1994)
 
§ 51.37 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Meters not exceeding one inch. Each month, for all water sold or
furnished by the district and for all metering services the district water
system provides to the various consumers within the district, all consumers,
whether residential, business, commercial or industrial, shall pay the district
according to the following schedule.
Gallons Charge
Gallons           Charge
   Commercial Domestic per Month
0 to 10,000       $15.11 minimum charge per month plus $1.79 per 1,000 gallons
                  up to 10,000 gallons for 5/8-inch meters
10,000 to 70,000  $2.02 per 1,000 gallons from 10,000 gallons up to 70,000
                  gallons
70,000 +          $2.52 per 1,000 gallons from 70,000 gallons and up
In addition, a surcharge of $6.98 per meter per month and a second surcharge
of $1.70 per meter per month will be added.
   Commercial Irrigation per Month
0 to 50,000       $15.11 minimum charge per month plus $2.84 per 1,000 gallons
                  up to 50,000 gallons for 5/8-inch meters
50,000 to 170,000 $3.18 per 1,000 gallons from 50,000 gallons up to 170,000
                  gallons
170,000 +         $4.09 per 1,000 gallons from 170,000 gallons and up
In addition, a surcharge of $6.98 per meter per month and a second surcharge
of $1.70 per meter per month will be added.
   Residential per Month
0 to 7,000        $15.11 minimum charge per month plus $1.79 per 1,000 gallons
                  up to 7,000 gallons for 5/8-inch meters
7,000 to 30,000   $2.66 per 1,000 gallons from 7,000 gallons up to 30,000
                  gallons
30,000 +          $3.42 per 1,000 gallons from 30,000 gallons and up
In addition, a surcharge of $6.98 per meter per month and a second surcharge
of $1.70 per meter per month will be added.
 
(Prior Code, § 7-58)
   (B)   Meters one-inch or greater.
      (1)   The rates in division (A) above apply to those customers whose
meters do not exceed one inch in size. For meters one inch or greater, the
following flat rates on a monthly basis shall apply as follows.
 
Meter Size  Minimum Charge
1 to 1-1/2" $23.16
2"          $40.31
3"          $67.55
4"          $125
 
      (2)   In addition to the minimum monthly charge in division (A) or (B)(1)
above, all consumers, whether residential, business, commercial or industrial,
shall pay in addition to the minimum charge identified above, the rates
described in division (A) above for water usage rates.
      (3)   The above rate schedule shall be charged to and paid by all users
without exception, other than the district, and shall commence on February 20,
2024, and first reflected on the March 2024 billing statements, unless referred
to a public vote.
      (4)   The charge for irrigation usage in residential townhouse
associations who share a meter(s) for irrigation shall be calculated by taking
the total meter usage of all meters and dividing by the number of units to
arrive at a per unit usage. The commercial usage charge will then be applied to
the per unit usage and multiplied by the number of units in the association to
arrive at the usage fee and added to the meter charge.
(Prior Code, § 7-59) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-20-2024)
APPENDIX A: WATER SERVICE LINE DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/59c2ccc798edcb4801c9f8ce49f11c5b41ba30e7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-380.png]
 
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of district sewer system required
   
52.03   Building sewer and connections
   
52.04   Use of the public sewers
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Application for water
   
52.16   Funds management
   
52.17   Connection charges
   
52.18   Multiple use buildings
   
52.19   Sewer user charges
   
52.20   Metering and sampling
   
52.21   Service contract
   
52.22   Special rates and charges
   
52.23   Water not discharged into sanitary sewer system
   
52.24   Review of rates
   
52.25   Failure to comply
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the building and conveys it outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER (HOUSE CONNECTION). The extension from the building drain to
the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USER. Any contributor to the district’s wastewater
collection works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for
purposes other than a single-family dwelling and contributes only wastewater
which is less than or equal to normal strength domestic wastewater.
   DISTRICT. The Dakota Dunes Community Improvement District or its officers or
employees authorized to perform the functions to which there is reference.
   DISTRICT SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM. The entire sewage collection system of
the district for the collection of sewage and industrial wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
another.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   FLOW UNIT. A volume of liquid equal in quantity to 1,000 gallons.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes resulting from any commercial,
manufacturing or industrial operations as distinct from sewage.
   MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER. A non-residential, commercial or industrial user,
which discharges waste into the sewer system of the district which:
      (1)   Has an industrial waste discharge or has a waste strength greater
than normal strength domestic sewage;
      (2)   Has a industrial waste discharge greater than 5% of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. § 1251;
      (4)   If found by the district to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on their treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works; or
      (5)   Is listed in the applicable industrial cost recovery standard
industrial classification.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 parts per million and a suspended solid’s concentration of not
more than 300 parts per million and a oil and grease content of not more than
100 parts per million.
   NOTICE. A notice in writing directed to the owner or other person affected
for the time specified by this chapter, stating briefly the condition which is
the reason for the notice and consequences which would result upon failure to
comply with the terms of the NOTICE. A NOTICE shall be deemed given when either
it is personally served on the person to whom it is directed or is mailed to
him or her at his or her last known address. If the owner cannot be reached by
mail so addressed, service may be made upon the occupant.
   OIL AND GREASE. Oil and grease as determined by the standard laboratory
procedures for the Soxhlet extraction method as defined in the current addition
of Standard Methods.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
wastewater collection works for materials, labor, utilities and other items
which are necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage collection works to
achieve the capacity and performance for which such works are designed and
constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE charges shall be included in the sewer
user charge and shall be levied in a proportional and adequate manner.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of ten.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
direction.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer common to the public and which is controlled by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT CHARGES. Expenditures for the obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the wastewater collection works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and construed. REPLACEMENT
CHARGES shall be included in the sewer user charge and shall be levied in a
proportional and adequate manner.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the district’s wastewater collection
works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for single-family
dwelling purposes only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer carrying sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwater is not admitted.
   SERVICE. Connection to the district sewage collection system and the right
to the use of its facilities whether or not the facilities are in fact used.
   SEWAGE. Water carried wastes from residences, institutions, business
buildings and other establishments. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER EXTENSION. The total project costs for the proposed extensions to the
sewer system.
   SEWER USER CHARGE. Any and all rates, charges, fees or rentals levied
against and payable by a sewer user and major industrial users.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that
is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TREATMENT CHARGE. All charges made to the district by the City of Sioux
City, for treatment of the wastewater collected by such collection works.
TREATMENT CHARGES shall be included in the sewer user charge.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a wastewater collection works
will be operated.
   USER. The owner, lessee or occupant of the premises connected to the
municipal sewage collection system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION WORKS. Any devices and systems for the collection or
carrying of district sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes. These
include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
individual systems, pumping, power and other equipment, and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply, such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities and any works, including site
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the wastewater
collection process.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the district or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved
by the district.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, §§ 7-82, 7-191)
§ 52.02 USE OF DISTRICT SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall place or deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the district, or in
any area under its jurisdiction, any sewage, industrial wastes, garbage or
other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the district shall not
permit construction or maintenance of any privy, septic tank, cesspool or such
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (C)   The owner of every residence, business or industrial building in the
district abutting upon any street or alley in which public sewers are
maintained, shall at his or her own expense install a sewer to dispose of all
sewage and industrial wastes from the premises and connect it with the public
sewer within 30 days after notice to do so. If such owner fails to provide for
the installation of such sewer after notice to do so, the district shall
provide for the installation of such sewer and charge the cost against the
property as a special assessment.
   (D)   If the Board of Supervisors determines a public sewer is not available
under this division (D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private
disposal system complying with other ordinances of the district and with all
requirements of the state. At such time as a public sewer becomes available to
the property, the building sewer shall be connected to it and use of any septic
tank, cesspool or other private disposal facility shall cease.
   (E)   Any privy, septic tank, cesspool or other such facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage which is constructed or maintained in violation
of any of the provisions of this section is declared to be a public nuisance,
the district may abate the same in the manner provided by law.
   (F)   The district hereby adopts the Uniform Plumbing Code to govern the
construction of utility systems on private property. All construction of
private sewer facilities and sewer facilities located in public right-of-way
shall be in accordance with these specifications, which by this reference are
made a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
   (G)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the District
Manager. The application for such permit shall include plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the district. A permit and
inspection fee, which shall be set by the resolution of the Board of
Supervisors, shall be paid to the district at the time the application is
filed.
   (H)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
district. The district shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
district when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the district.
   (I)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the district and the
state. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (J)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
district.
(Prior Code, § 7-192)
§ 52.03 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to performing any work building, repairing, extending or
connecting a private utility to a public utility, the person employed to do the
work shall post a bond and obtain a permit as set forth in Chapter 50.
   (B)   All connections with the public sewer shall be made with cast iron,
vitrified stoneware, P.V.C. or A.B.S. plastic pipe and shall comply with
plumbing standards, provided by district ordinance or laws or regulations of
the state. All joints and connections shall be gas and water tight. The size,
slope and depth of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the
district, but in no event shall the internal diameter of the sewer be less than
four inches, with a minimum slope of one-eighth inch to the foot, unless a
variance is granted by the District Manager. The connections of the building
sewer with the public sewer shall be made at the “Y” branch designated for the
property if suitable; and other locations for the connection shall be only as
directed by the district.
   (C)   The district shall have authority to suspend the right of any plumber
to make connection to district property for noncompliance with these rules and
regulations. Such suspension shall take effect immediately and shall remain in
effect until the alleged violation and suspension can be reviewed by the
district.
   (D)   Sewer pipes must not be laid in the same trench with water or gas
pipes, but an entire separate trench must be provided for their accommodation.
   (E)   The district shall review and approve the plans and specifications of
all extensions of the public sewer. The plans and specifications of the
extensions shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer licensed in
the state to prepare the plans and specifications. The district will require
manholes, wye connections and other appurtenances in accordance with the
aforementioned standards and the regulations of the state. Maximum spacing
between manholes shall be 450 feet. All plans and specifications shall be
approved by the state and evidence of the same submitted to the district prior
to the issuance of the required permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-193) (Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 52.04 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof run off, subsurface drainage, cooling water
or unpolluted industrial wastewaters into any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
storm sewers or into a natural outlet approved by the district. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged into a storm sewer
or natural outlet; such discharges must have a discharge permit issued by the
state.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity to either singly or, by interaction with other
wastes, injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create a hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged into the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any discharge prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.5;
      (4)   Any discharge prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6; or
      (5)   Any combination of discharges that causes a treatment plant to
exceed its influent capacity as listed in § 8 of the City of Sioux City’s
Pretreatment Program.
   (D)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   All buildings shall be constructed with a building drain high enough
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer. Use of pumps is discouraged and
shall not be permitted without the express written permission from the
district. The district may give its permission if it finds that said pump is
necessary to prevent an adverse effect upon the owner of the property.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes without
the express written permission from the district. The district may give its
permission if it finds such wastes will not harm the public sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or will not otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
district will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF or 65ºC;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32ºF and 150ºF or 0ºC and
65ºC;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor greater than one
horsepower shall be subject to the review and approval of the district;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limit established by
the director of such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the district as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance
with the applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (b)   Unusual chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
or
         (c)   Unusual concentration of wastes constituting slugs.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 250 parts per
million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the district.
      (11)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing dissolved sulfides in excess of
one-half mg/l.
   (G)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged into the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated herein and which, in the judgment of the
district, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the district may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge into the
public sewers. To this end, the district may require pretreatment to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight.
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (H)   If the district permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and written approval of the district and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. The district may
require a compliance schedule for the design, construction and installation of
equipment for such pretreatment works. No construction shall commence on such
pretreatment facilities until the written approval of the district is obtained.
The costs of all pretreatment facilities shall be paid by the person
contributing the wastes.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at the request of the district, install a suitable
sampling station or stations upon each and every building sewer or combine the
building sewers into a common building sewer upon which one sampling station
shall be placed. The sampling station or stations shall be furnished with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer or sewers to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such sampling
station or stations shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the district. The sampling
station or stations shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe, accessible and in good
working order at all times.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the sampling station provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the sampling station. In the event that no special sampling station
has been required, the sampling station shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the sewer from the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of the
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls.)
   (K)   No industrial user shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any
public sewer any industrial wastes without a valid permit from the district.
When the district has reason to believe that a contributor has been
discharging, is discharging or is about to discharge any industrial wastes into
a public sewer and that a permit should be required of the contributor to
effectuate the requirements of this chapter, he or she shall request such
contributor to file an application for such a permit, which application shall
be completed and returned to the district within 30 days after the receipt
thereof. All applications for a permit under this section shall require the
application to provide:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the property to be covered by
the permit;
      (3)   A general statement of the type of operations conducted and to be
conducted on the property;
      (4)   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains;
and
      (5)   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes
produced or expected to be produced for discharge from the property, including
a description of the character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum
rates of discharge and representative analysis.
   (L)   All applications shall also require the applicant to agree to:
      (1)   Furnish at the request of the district any additional information
relating to the installation or use of the industrial sewer for which the
permit is sought;
      (2)   Accept and abide by all provisions of this chapter and all other
pertinent ordinances and regulations which may be adopted in the future;
      (3)   Operate and maintain any waste pretreatment facilities, as may be
required as a condition of acceptance into the public sewers of the industrial
wastes involved, in an efficient manner at all times, and at no expense to the
district;
      (4)   Cooperate at all times with the district in the inspecting,
sampling and study of the industrial wastes and in the inspecting of any
facilities provided for pretreatment;
      (5)   Notify the district immediately in the event of any accident,
negligence or other occurrence with occasions discharged into the public sewers
of any wastes or process waters not covered by the permit; and
      (6)   Provide and submit notices and reports as required by 40 C.F.R. §
403.12.
   (M)   If, after examination by the district of the information contained in
an application for a permit hereunder, it is determined by the district that
the characteristics of the proposed discharge do not conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, a permit shall forthwith be issued allowing the
discharge of such wastes to the public sewers; but, if it is determined by the
district that the characteristics of the wastes are not in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, the application shall be denied by the district and
the applicant forthwith advised in writing by the district of steps which must
be taken to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (N)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the district, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the district, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and
shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the district. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
   (O)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (P)   The district may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (Q)   Each industrial user shall, upon request of the district, furnish the
district with information regarding the number of units processed in a stated
period and the number of units of finished product produced in the same period.
   (R)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the district and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the district for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 7-194)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 APPLICATION FOR WATER.
   A written application, which is also applicable for water use, provided by
the district for wastewater discharge must be made by the owner or agent of the
property to the District Clerk stating the address where wastewater and water
will be used.
(Prior Code, § 7-81) (Ord. 98-1, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 52.16 FUNDS MANAGEMENT.
   The sewer charge shall be just, equitable and uniform for users of the same
class and shall be such as will produce revenues, together with any other
assessments, taxes, revenues or funds available or pledged for such purpose at
least sufficient to provide for all expenses of operation and maintenance, for
payment when due of all bonds and interest thereon for the payment of which
such revenues are or shall have been pledged or encumbered including reserves
for such purpose and for any other funds which may be required under the
resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of bonds by the district.
(Prior Code, § 7-83)
§ 52.17 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The District Manager or his or her designee shall first determine if
the following criteria have all been met prior to permitting connection:
      (1)   The district has the capacity for the proposed connection;
      (2)   All platting and zoning requirements have been met;
      (3)   The property or properties requesting a connection is or are
currently subject to and in compliance with the community association or
commercial association declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions;
      (4)   Any district connection fees approved by resolution of the Board
have been paid in full; and
      (5)   The requesting property is consistent with the water or sewer use
plan adopted by the district.
   (B)   Prior to connection to the district public wastewater collection
works, the developer and/or owner shall submit an engineers plan which must
comply with all district specifications and standards for initial approval by
the District Board. Upon initial approval by the Board, the developer and/or
owner must complete installation of all infrastructure, including a new public
sewer main which meets all district standards and specifications. An
inspection, to include standard final testing and obtaining lien waivers where
necessary, shall then be completed prior to the final approval by the Board and
acceptance by the Board for public use.
   (C)   Any new sanitary sewer main shall be televised and inspected by the
District Manager for approval. Any corrections and re-televising deemed
necessary must be completed prior to placing the line in service. All costs for
this process will be the responsibility of and will be paid by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-84) (Ord. 2020-03, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 52.18 MULTIPLE USE BUILDINGS.
   In cases of commercial, retail, office, apartment or other multiple use
buildings, where the owner thereof has installed with district permission a
master water meter, the owner of such premises shall be billed at the rates and
charges provided herein each month of the year for all wastewater discharged
based upon the water consumed through this meter and subject to applicable
minimums. The owner must assume the responsibility for maintaining, reading and
billing any submeters he or she may install for his or her own purpose which
measure the quantity consumed by each individual tenant. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to report to the District Secretary the name of any
new tenant or the removal of any tenant in instances where the owner does not
have a master water meter installed.
(Prior Code, § 7-85)
§ 52.19 SEWER USER CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner or user is required to have a water meter, or in the case of
a major user, a wastewater metering device, for the purpose of determining the
volume of metered waste. The provisions set forth in §
52.23 shall also apply. The volume of metered waste shall be measured in
thousand gallons, and one thousand gallons of metered water shall equal a flow
unit. The volume of water measured by the water meter shall equal the metered
waste for Class I and Class II users. A wastewater metering device shall be
used by Class III users for determining the volume of metered waste and flow
units.
   (B)   The following classes of users and charges to those users are hereby
established:
      (1)   Class I, residential users: $18 per month plus $5.50 per thousand
gallons of metered waste per month. In addition, a surcharge of $1.10 per meter
per month, excluding commercial and residential irrigation meters, will be
added;
      (2)   Class II, commercial/industrial users: $36 per month plus $5.50 per
thousand gallons of metered waste per month. In addition, a surcharge of $1.10
per meter per month, excluding commercial and residential irrigation meters,
will be added; and
      (3)   Class III, major industrial users:
         (a)   Flow, per 1,000 gallons: $0.64;
         (b)   BOD, per pound: $0.079;
         (c)   SS, per pound: $0.053; and
         (d)   Oil and grease, per pound: $0.053.
   (C)   The above rate schedules shall be charged to and paid by all users
without exception, other than the district, and shall be reflected in the March
2024 billing statements unless referred to a public vote.
(Prior Code, § 7-86) (Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 52.20 METERING AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   Major industrial users shall provide a sampling station which shall be
monitored as required to calculate appropriate user charges. Charges to major
industrial users shall be established on the basis of metered flow and tested
strength of wastewater discharges.
   (B)   Monthly flow units shall be calculated from readings from individual
industry owned flow meters. Monthly loadings of BOD, SS and oil and grease are
calculated from laboratory analysis of individual composited wastewater samples
applied to flows during the sampling period. Individual industry charges shall
be based upon actual usage. Discharges over a weekend shall be measured with
the next analysis and charged for actual sewage discharged at the rates
established herein. Grease loadings in excess of 100 milligrams per liter are
billed for the same rate as for solids except as modified by surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 7-87)
§ 52.21 SERVICE CONTRACT.
   All major industrial users shall enter into a service contract with the
district for sampling and analysis and for maintenance of metering and sampling
stations on an actual cost basis with all charges to be billed directly to the
industry for all labor and materials required to ensure the proper operation of
the stations. Charges shall include, but not be limited to, the cost of travel,
labor, chemicals, equipment replacement and other charges resulting from the
sampling and testing of the wastes of the industry. All monitoring and metering
stations shall be secured with access limited to the district and the district
authorized industrial personnel.
(Prior Code, § 7-88)
§ 52.22 SPECIAL RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Toxic pollutants or other identifiable substances. Any user which
discharges any toxic pollutants or any user which discharges any substance
which singly or by interaction with other substances causes identifiable
increase in the cost of the operation, maintenance or replacement of the
collection works shall pay for such increased costs of managing the effluent or
sludge by the district. The charge to each such user shall be determined by the
District Manager and approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Surcharge. For those major industrial users who have been issued
industrial user permits by the district, a surcharge of ten times the
additional charges described above for flow, BOD, SS and/or oil and grease
shall be applied to all quantities of waste contributed in excess of the
industrial users permitted limits. Such surcharges shall be applied to both
average monthly and maximum daily limits that are stipulated in the user
permit.
   (C)   Sulfides. Any user who dissolves sulfides in excess of one-half
milligram per liter, shall be assessed a surcharge of $1.64 per pound which
shall be applied to the user’s next sewer use billing.
   (D)   Contracts with special major industrial users. Major industrial users
contributing as much as 10% of the treatment works design loadings in terms of
flow, five-day BOD or solids loadings, shall be established by a negotiated
contract with the individual industry. Rates shall include all charges assessed
against major industrial users and shall be at least equal to the ordinance
rates in effect at the time of the contract.
   (E)   Water meter requirements. 
      (1)   If any premises connected to the sanitary sewage system of the
district obtains water from a source other than the water distribution system
owned and operated by the district, the owner or consumer is required to have a
water meter installed for the purpose of determining sewer user charges under
this chapter.
      (2)   All meters shall be approved by the district and shall be installed
by the district at the expense of the owner of said premises and officers and
employees of the district shall have access to said premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of inspecting the water system, installing and repairing
said meters and reading the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-89)
§ 52.23 WATER NOT DISCHARGED INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Commercial or industrial. Commercial or industrial consumers shall not
be charged a sewer use charge for water passing through a separate meter, the
type and installation of which shall be approved by the district, and purchased
and installed at the consumer’s expense, where the water used or consumed is
not discharged into the sanitary sewer system. Alternatively, the district may
establish a special sewer use charge based on an estimated quantity of water
used or consumed on the premises in determining the sewer user charge.
   (B)   Residential.
      (1)   Residential consumers of water shall not be charged a sewer user
charge for water passing through a separate water line and water meter, the
type and installation of which shall be approved by the district, and purchased
and installed at the consumer’s expense, when the meter shall be connected to
outside taps for the purpose of lawn sprinklers or for the operation of air
conditioners when such water is not discharged through or into the sanitary
sewer system.
      (2)   If a separate meter is not installed, the consumer may use the
winter quarter period. The sewer user charge for consumers billed monthly shall
be the same for each month of the calendar year and shall be determined by
averaging the monthly water usage as shown by the water meter readings taken in
the winter quarter. The District Manager shall determine the three months to be
used for the winter quarter. If the consumer has discontinued service or has an
unusual winter quarter, the District Manager may select a representative winter
quarter for the consumer. The District Manager will review water usage and
billings in cases where water usage as shown by meter readings is less than the
established winter quarter consumption, the actual consumption will be used in
calculating sewer charges for that billing period only. In those situations
where the consumer has insufficient history to determine an average based on
the winter quarter, the District Manager shall have the discretion to determine
a fair and equitable charge. The winter quarter will not be used for consumers
who install separate sewer and water meters.
(Prior Code, § 7-90) (Ord. 92-1, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-15-
2024)
§ 52.24 REVIEW OF RATES.
   Sewer use rates shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be revised as
necessary to keep revenues reasonably in balance with anticipated expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 7-91)
§ 52.25 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter shall result in the
premises being disconnected from the wastewater collection works of the
district.
(Prior Code, § 7-92)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section  Code Section
5-18A-3       31.03
Chapter 7-25A 32.09
7-25A-33      31.07;
              31.08
7-25A-36      20.04;
              23.06
Chapter 9-43  31.07;
              31.08
Chapter 9-46  31.10
22-6-2        20.99
              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
3-16               20.01
3-17               20.02
3-18               20.03
3-19               20.04
3-20               20.05
3-21               20.06
3-22               20.07
3-31               21.01
3-32               21.02
3-51               22.01
3-53               22.02
3-81               23.01
3-82               24.01
3-83               24.02
3-84               24.03
3-86               24.04
3-87               24.04
3-88               24.04
3-89               24.04
3-90               24.05
3-91               24.04
3-92               24.06
3-111              24.07
3-112              23.02
3-113              23.03
3-114              23.04
3-115              23.05
3-122              23.06
3-123              25.01
3-124              20.99
5-1                31.01
5-2                31.02
5-3                31.03
5-4                31.04
5-5                31.05
5-6                31.06
5-7                31.07
5-8                31.08
5-9                31.09
5-10               31.10
5-11               32.01
5-12               32.02
5-13               32.03
5-14               32.04
5-15               32.05
5-16               32.06
5-17               32.07
5-18               32.08
5-19               32.09
5-20               33.01
5-21               33.02
5-23               30.01
5-24               34.01
5-25               34.02
5-26               34.03
5-27               34.04
5-28               34.05
5-29               34.06
5-30               34.07
5-31               34.08
5-32               34.09
5-35               40.01
5-36               40.02
5-37               40.03
5-38               40.04
5-39               40.05
5-40               40.06
5-41               40.07
5-42               40.08
5-43               40.09
5-44               40.10
5-45               40.11
5-46               40.12
5-47               40.13
5-48               40.14
5-49               40.15
5-50               40.99
7-16               50.30
7-17               50.31
7-18               50.32
7-19               50.33
7-21               50.34
7-22               50.35
7-51               51.30
7-52               51.31
7-53               51.32
7-54               51.33
7-55               51.34
7-56               51.35
7-57               51.36
7-58               51.37
7-59               51.37
7-81               52.15
7-82               52.01
7-83               52.16
7-84               52.17
7-85               52.18
7-86               52.19
7-87               52.20
7-88               52.21
7-89               52.22
7-90               52.23
7-91               52.24
7-92               52.25
7-111              50.01
7-112              50.02
7-113              50.03
7-114              50.04
7-115              50.05
7-116              50.05
7-117              50.05
7-118              50.06
7-119              50.07
7-121              50.08
7-122              50.09
7-123              50.10
7-124              50.11
7-125              50.12
7-126              50.13
7-127              50.14
7-128              50.14
7-129              50.14
7-130              50.14
7-131              50.14
7-132              50.15
7-133              50.16
7-134              50.17
7-135              50.18
7-151              51.01
7-152              51.02
7-153              51.03
7-154              51.04
7-155              51.05
7-156              51.06
7-157              51.07
7-158              51.08
7-159              51.09
7-160              51.10
7-161              51.11
7-162              51.12
7-163              51.13
7-164              51.14
7-165              51.15
7-191              52.01
7-192              52.02
7-193              52.03
7-194              52.04
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2002-1   - -         34.09
2009-01  - -         40.99
91-5     8-12-1991   20.07
91-6     9-19-1991   23.06
92-1     6-8-1992    52.23
                     23.06;
94-1     4-11-1994   50.01;
                     52.03
94-2     11-21-1994  51.36
                     50.08;
                     50.31—
                     50.34;
                     51.01;
98-1     5-18-1998   51.12;
                     51.13;
                     51.32;
                     51.34;
                     52.15
2001-1   2-28-2001   51.14
                     31.01—
                     31.10;
2003-02  12-15-2003  32.01—
                     32.09;
                     33.01;
                     33.02
2005-01  4- -2005    30.01
2008-02  11-17-2008  51.32
2013-01  - -2013     20.99;
                     25.01
                     20.01—
                     20.04;
2014-02  11-17-2014  21.01;
                     22.01;
                     23.01
2014-03  11-17-2014  24.01—
                     24.06
2016-01  4-18-2016   20.04
2016-02  12-19-2016  51.30;
                     51.33
2016-03  12-19-2016  51.10
2020-02  11-16-2020  51.06
2020-03  11-16-2020  51.32;
                     52.17
2024-01  2-20-2024   51.37
2024-02  2-20-2024   52.19
2024-03  7-15-2024   20.05
2024-04  7-15-2024   20.99
                     30.01,
2024-05  7-15-2024   33.01,
                     40.12
                     50.33,
                     51.10,
2024-06  7-15-2024   51.12,
                     51.30,
                     51.33,
                     51.34
2024-07  7-15-2024   52.23
                    
 
