ETHAN, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. XI-112, passed 8-16-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
President       Megan Perry
Vice President  Jason Koch
                
Trustees
Raquel Nesheim
Mataya James
Michele Pollreisz
                
Finance Officer Michelle Ripley
Public Works    Robert Riggs
Town Attorney   Tim Bottum
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code,” for which
designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Davison County, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of the town.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the Office
of the Register of Deeds of the county, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   TOWN. The Town of Ethan, South Dakota.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution or regulation with a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11.01   Definitions
§ 11.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is left unattended or
unused on any public street or alley, in any public parking lot, or in any
other public place for more than 14 consecutive days.
   ABATEMENT. Process by which the town responds to nuisances and resolves the
nuisance either through a voluntary response of the offending property owner or
through some form of civil or legal enforcement or other town action or
response.
   ACCEPTABLE BURNABLE MATERIALS. Consists of dry material to include: clean
(unpainted, and untreated) lumber; wood to include logs, branches, and twigs;
and charcoal. Materials shall not include rubbish, garbage, trash, any material
made of or coated with rubber, plastic, leather, petroleum based materials, or
any flammable or combustible liquids.
   ALLUVIAL FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   ANIMAL. Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. ANIMAL
includes fowl, fish, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL AT-LARGE.
      (1)   An animal when off or away from the premises and not under the
control of the owner, possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of his or
her immediate family by a leash.
      (2)   An animal when on the premises of the owner, possessor, keeper,
agent, or servant if not attended by a competent person unless the animal is
chained, restrained, enclosed, or confined in a manner preventing it from
leaving the premises.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A building and facilities therein approved by the Board of
Trustees for the impounding of animals.
   ANTI-ESCAPE. Any housing, fencing, or device which a guard dog cannot go
over, under, through, or around.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPROVED COOKING DEVICES. Includes, but are not limited to gas, charcoal,
and electric grills.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOOD. A designated AO, AH, or VO Zone on a community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. Land within the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE, or V.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and such other emergency vehicles as are designated or authorized by
the Board of Trustees
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on three sides.
   BONFIRE. A large open air fire kindled to mark a public event, victory
celebration, or similar occurrence.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district when the frontage on such street for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use
for business.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has more than four square feet of
signage or which is adapted, designed, equipped, and used to perform a specific
commercial function and which does not meet the definition of personal
passenger vehicle.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any self-propelled or pull/push piece of equipment
which is adapted, designed, equipped, and used to perform specific construction
activities. This term shall include, but is not limited to, front end loaders,
backhoes, skid loaders, and tandem axle trailers.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, whether or not
marked, or any other portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CRUELTY. Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering,
or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide
proper drink, air, space, shelter, or protection from the elements, a sanitary
and safe living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in siphoned
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, CRUELTY shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
   CURB. The extreme edge or lateral boundary of a roadway, whether marked by
curbing or not so marked.
   DANGEROUS VEGETATION. All species of sunflowers, all species of rag weeds,
all species of cockle burrs, all species of tumble weeds, all species of
thistles, dandelions, plantains, wild morning glory, black mustard, and
pigweed.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filing, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING/STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which has any or
all of the conditions or defects that may be deemed a danger to the life,
health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants or in a condition of
defect that annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, health, or repose of
others by existing in a state of damage, vacancy, in a condition unfit for
occupancy, in a condition unsafe and likely to cause injury, cracked, warped,
buckled, or settled, deteriorated, decayed, constructed in a faulty manner,
lacking support or inadequacy of foundation or structural soundness, or in a
state of uncleanness.
   DISTURBANCE. The act of disturbing the peace and quiet of the neighborhood
by continuous barking or making other loud or unusual noises.
   DOUBLE PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street at the rear of
another vehicle which is parked diagonally at the curb, or the standing of a
vehicle upon a street alongside and parallel to another vehicle which is parked
parallel to the curb.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A non-basement building:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of
the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
      (3)   In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even
though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway
walls met the standards of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at the minimum, the
installations of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FARM EQUIPMENT. Any self-propelled or push/pull piece of equipment which is
adapted, designed, equipped, and used in the pursuit of agricultural
operations. This term shall include, but is not limited to, tractors, combines,
gravity wagons, and plows.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waves; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHB). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (such as,
mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as
Zones A, M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Those physical structural works for which
funds have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   HOUSING, PET. Any location where the pet is kept.
   IMPOUND. Taking into custody of an animal by any law enforcement officer,
animal control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
   INTERSECTION. The part of a street where a street joins another at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other street, and shall include the full width of
the street, between the curb lines, extended, of the intersecting streets.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto unexpired license plates or which is wrecked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperable, or discarded.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee or officer of the state or any
political subdivision thereof, and who is responsible for the prevention and
detection of crime and the enforcement of the criminal or highway traffic laws
of the state or the town.
   LEASH. A cord, strap, or chain by which an animal is controlled by the
person accompanying it.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LITTER, WASTE, or GARBAGE. Any discarded, used, or contaminated substance or
waste. LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse,
debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspapers,
magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging
construction material, abandoned motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, tires,
salvage materials, furniture, oil, carcasses of dead animals, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard, dead trees, dead tree branches, construction materials, or
anything else of any unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded,
abandoned, or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 of the National
Flood insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, and campers.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. All species of sunflowers, all species of rag weeds, all
species of cockle burrs, all species of tumble weeds, all species of thistles,
dandelions, plantains, wild morning glory, black mustard, and pigweed.
   NUISANCE. A nuisance consists of unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, which act or omission or either annoys, injures, or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others; offends decency; unlawfully
interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any lake or
navigable water, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square,
street, highway; or in any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in
the use of property (SDCL § 21-10-1).
   NUISANCE PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others in the community or in any way renders other persons in the
community insecure in life, or in the use of their property;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstructs, or
renders dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street, or highway;
      (4)   Any abandoned property, abandoned motor vehicles, junk motor
vehicles, litter, waste, or garbage; any accumulation of junk and/or litter
maintained upon any premise; any abandoned, discarded or unused furniture,
appliances, sinks, toilets, cabinets, or other household fixtures or equipment;
any abandoned, discarded, inoperable or unused junk motor vehicles, trailers,
wagons, and other types of machines and implements; any presence of an
abandoned, discarded, wrecked, burned, dismantled, inoperable, junked, or
partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public property is
hereby declared a public nuisance;
      (5)   Any broken windows, doors, attic vents, and under floor vents; any
empty or vacant buildings including dilapidated buildings/structures that have
doors, windows, or other openings that allow entrance of wild animals and
vermin and further create a health or safety risk to the community; any
dilapidated building/structure as defined herein that threatens the comfort,
health or general safety of the community;
      (6)   Any sign or sign structure that is dismantled, partially
dismantled, defective, broken, deteriorated, in disrepair, or defaced; or
allowing the exterior building coverings to deteriorate as to encourage decay,
dry rot, warping, and cracking;
      (7)   Any accumulation of dead animals, animal matter, or waste of any
kind, dead, decayed, diseased trees, and other vegetation, including overgrown
weeds, trees and grass, and other vegetation;
      (8)   Any uncovered manure, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel, small dead
animals, wood, or like material; any failure to store in a covered container or
throwing or letting fall on or permit to remain on any street, alley, private,
or public ground any manure, trash, refuse, debris, newspapers, magazines,
glass, plastic containers, styrofoam containers, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel,
small dead animals, wood, or other waste material;
      (9)   Any depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property, any animal or vegetable matter
which attends the processing, preparation, transportation, cooking, eating,
sale, or storage of meat, fish, vegetables, fruit, and all other food or food
products found within the town which are likely to cause or transmit disease,
or which may be a hazard to health or a disturbance to the general public;
      (10)   Any imperfect, leaking, unclean, or filthy sink, water closet,
urinal, or other plumbing fixture in any building used or occupied by human
beings;
      (11)   Any accumulation of manure or livestock waste; any human or other
waste material discharged into the streets, alleys, or upon any property within
the town;
      (12)   Any weeds or plants declared as noxious weeds by the State Weed
Board and all other weeds and grass growing upon any lot or parcel of land in
the town to a greater height than ten inches;
      (13)   Any deposits on any street any material which may be harmful to
the pavement thereof, or for any person to deposit, or for the owner of the
adjacent property to allow, any deposit of any waste material, glass, rocks,
dirt, or other articles which may do injury to any person, animal, or property,
including any person traveling across the street or right-of-way;
      (14)   Any wild animal(s) as defined by this statute whether domesticated
or not that are within the corporate limits including hogs or pigs;
      (15)   Any well or other supply of water used for any purpose which is
polluted thereby affecting the health and welfare of the town and community;
      (16)   Any excavation or other depression where stagnant water is
permitted to collect for longer than one week;
      (17)   Any erecting or maintaining of any unsanitary privies, cesspools,
or other waste disposal sites. Only sanitary waste facilities approved by the
State Health Department are allowed within or outside the town;
      (18)   Any burning on any street, alley, private residence/lot, or public
ground of dirt, filth, manure, garbage, leaves, paper, rubbish, or any other
material;
      (19)   Any livestock trucks or trailers parked in residential areas of
the town which give off any offensive odor or pose a risk of contaminating the
town, thereby impacting the general health and well-being;
      (20)   Any other nuisance or problem which threatens or endangers the
comfort, health, and general safety of the community; or
      (21)   Any other use of property which is specifically declared by
resolution of the Board of Trustees to be a nuisance, after compliance with the
notice and hearing requirements of the town code.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. All signals, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of directing,
warning, or regulating traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs, markings, and devices other than signals,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of directing, guiding, warning, or regulating
traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   OWNER; PET. Any person keeping, maintaining, or having in their custody or
control an animal. The occupant of any premises on which an animal remains or
to which it customarily returns daily for a period of ten days is presumed to
be keeping the animal within the meaning of this code.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading, in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals, or when authorized by the Town Marshal, a law enforcement
officer, or other public official.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSONAL PASSENGER VEHICLE. Any car, pick-up truck, or van which has no more
than four square feet of signage and which is designed for and facilitates
personal and passenger travel and has not been externally altered with features
not customary to personal usage.
   PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Devices commercially designed and intended to contain
and control outdoor wood fires that may be used in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, improved or unimproved, parking areas
thereon, walkways, and sidewalks.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. A real property within the town which is privately-owned
and which is not public property.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for vehicular travel.
   PROHIBITED BURNABLE MATERIALS. Include but are not limited to refuse,
rubbish, garbage, trash, leaves, cardboard, paper products, batteries,
household furniture, appliances, any material made of or coated with rubber,
plastic, leather, petroleum based materials, or any flammable or combustible
liquids.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community,
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal (SDCL § 21-
10-3).
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other publicly-owned
property or facility.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES. Small campfires on private property, small fires
confined to pits, or outdoor cooking fires.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street between the regular established curb line
or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT. A levy or tax upon owners of property abutting a public
improvement to offset the costs of said improvement. An assessment may also
include a levy upon property for maintenance or abatement of a nuisance or
other ordinance violations.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), being 16
U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq.), includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STREET. The part of the street set apart for the use of vehicles or motor
vehicles and including alleys, avenues, and public highways.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the
minimum necessary conditions; or any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as a HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   THROUGH STREET. The portion of any street or avenue upon which travel is not
controlled by stop signs or signals and entrance upon which from intersecting
streets is controlled by stop signs.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS. Any device using colored lights, or words, or any
combination thereof, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated by
which traffic is alternately directed to stop and proceed.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is used primarily for the transportation of
goods, materials, merchandise, or other commodities and which is not used
primarily for the transportation of passengers.
   UNHEALTHY VEGETATION. All species of sunflowers, all species of rag weeds,
all species of cockle burrs, all species of tumble weeds, all species of
thistles, dandelions, plantains, wild morning glory, black mustard, and
pigweed.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of an ordinance
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance which is designed to travel along the ground or in
the water and shall include, but not limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, pull trailers, go-
carts, golf carts, boats, campers, and trailers.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  
      (1)   An animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches in
an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury, assaults or
otherwise attacks a person or other animal upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds or places, provided that the animal has not been provoked to do
so by teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
      (2)   An animal which, on private property, in a vicious or terrifying
manner, approaches in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts
injury, assaults, or otherwise attacks a mail person, meter reader, service
person, journey person, delivery person, or other employed person, or other
animal who is on private property by reason of permission of the owner or
occupant of such property or who is on private property by reason of a course
of dealing with the owner of such private property.
      (3)   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is
sustained to any person or animal who is committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal, or who was
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WILD ANIMAL. Animals other than domestic dogs and cats, which in a wild
state are carnivorous or which because of their nature or physical makeup are
capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to human beings, common
domestic animals like dogs and cats which show a continuing propensity for
being capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to human beings will
be considered a wild animal.
(2008 Code, Chapter 11)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Corporate limits
   
30.02   Official town map
   
30.03   Corporate seal
§ 30.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The current boundaries of the incorporated town are on file with the Finance
Officer.
(2008 Code, § 2.2.1)
§ 30.02 OFFICIAL TOWN MAP.
   The map illustrating the corporate limits, filed within with the Finance
Office, shall be the official map of the town.
(2008 Code, § 2.2.2)
§ 30.03 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The town shall have a corporate seal stating thereon as follows: “Corporate
Seal, Town of Ethan, South Dakota” which shall be in the custody of the Finance
Officer and shall appear upon all official signatures of the Board President
and Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 2.2.3)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.01   Elections
   
31.02   Trustees
   
31.03   Oath of office
   
31.04   Organization
   
31.05   Qualifications
   
31.06   Regular meetings
   
31.07   Special meetings
   
31.08   Special meeting notice
   
31.09   Meeting rules and format
   
31.10   Parliamentary procedure
Appointed Officials
   
31.25   Attorney
   
31.26   Engineer
Employees
   
31.40   Finance Officer
   
31.41   Maintenance Superintendent
   
31.42   Law enforcement
   
31.43   Fire Department
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   There shall be elected at each annual municipal election, Trustees, who
shall hold office for three years, with staggered terms, until their successors
are elected or appointed and qualified.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.1)
§ 31.02 TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five Board members, each of whom
shall be legally qualified electors thereof, and such members shall hold office
for three years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Such
members shall qualify for office at the regular May meeting by filing an oath
or affirmation of office with the Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.2)
§ 31.03 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The oath of office shall be in the following form:
“I, ___________________________, having been elected to the office of a Trustee
of the Town of Ethan, South Dakota, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of South
Dakota and that I will faithfully and impartially to the best of my knowledge
and ability perform all of the duties of my said office as provided by law.”
                                       ________________________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me this _____ day of__________________, 20_____.
   __________________________________________
   Notary Public
(2008 Code, § 2.3.3)
§ 31.04 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect each year at the first meeting in
May the following officers: one President and one Vice President.
   (B)   The Vice President shall, in the absence of the President from the
town, or his or her temporary disability, be acting President and possess all
the powers and charged with the duties of the President.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.4)
§ 31.05 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All elected or appointed officials herein provided for, shall before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation in the form above described. Any required bond is to be provided by
the town conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of their offices,
and to account, pay over, and deliver all money or property coming into their
hands by virtue of their office according to law; provided that the amount of
the Finance Officer’s bond shall in no case be less than one-half the amount of
the estimated taxes and special assessments for the current year; and in case
bonds are sold, he or she shall execute an additional undertaking in the amount
thereof, such bond also to be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.5)
§ 31.06 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the first
Monday after the first Wednesday of each month. If the meeting date falls on a
holiday, a new meeting date will be set by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.6) (Ord. 2, passed 9-19-2009)
§ 31.07 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be held at any time on call of
the Board of Trustees President or Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.7)
§ 31.08 SPECIAL MEETING NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon call for a special meeting, the Finance Officer shall notify
those Board members present within the municipality via oral or written
communication.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the adoption of a more
stringent or formal notification process.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.8)
§ 31.09 MEETING RULES AND FORMAT.
   The rules and order of business for Board of Trustees meetings shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.9)
§ 31.10 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, as periodically revised, shall be the parliamentary
authority governing the conduct of Board of Trustees meetings.
(2008 Code, § 2.3.10)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.25 ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Town Attorney each year prior May 1.
(2008 Code, § 2.4.1)
§ 31.26 ENGINEER.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Town Engineer each year prior to May
1.
(2008 Code, § 2.4.2)
EMPLOYEES
§ 31.40 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees shall cause for the employ of a Finance Officer. The
duties, of which, shall be negotiated by the Board of Trustees and conducted in
accordance with South Dakota Codified Law. The position shall be compensated at
a rate to be determined by the Board of Trustees, serve at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees, and may be removed without cause.
(2008 Code, § 2.5.1)
§ 31.41 MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall cause for the employ of a Maintenance
Superintendent. The duties of which shall be negotiated by the Board of
Trustees and conducted in accordance with applicable labor laws. The position
shall be compensated at a rate to be determined by the Board of Trustees, serve
at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, and may be removed without cause.
(2008 Code, § 2.5.2)
§ 31.42 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall provide for law enforcement. Police protection
and patrol will be contracted through the County Sheriff’s office.
(2008 Code, § 2.5.3)
§ 31.43 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Fire protection is provided for by the Rural Fire Board along with the Fire
Department.
(2008 Code, § 2.5.4)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Park Board
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Authority
   
32.03   Qualifications
   
32.04   Terms and appointments
   
32.05   Meetings
   
32.06   Officers
   
32.07   Rules and regulations
   
32.08   Fiscal year
PARK BOARD
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Park Board within the
town, pursuant to and as authorized by SDCL § 9-38.
   (B)   The purpose of which is for the improvement and betterment of the
community.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.1)
§ 32.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Park Board, as hereinafter created, shall control and supervise the
public parks, open spaces, and public grounds of the municipality, including
all ball grounds, subject to rules, regulations, and responsibilities as may be
prescribed by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.2)
§ 32.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Park Board shall be comprised of at least five individuals, 18 years or
older.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.3)
§ 32.04 TERMS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   At the first regular meeting of each year, membership shall be reviewed.
Members may be replaced as decided by the Park Board and may serve for an
indefinite period of time.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.4)
§ 32.05 MEETINGS.
   Park Board meetings shall be held at such times as the Park Board may
determine to be necessary but shall be no less than one time annually. At least
two-thirds of the members shall be necessary to conduct a meeting.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.6)
§ 32.06 OFFICERS.
   The Park Board shall consist of a Chairperson who shall control all meetings
of the Park Board. The Park Board shall also contain a Secretary to take the
minutes of the meetings and receive and mail correspondences. The Finance
Office shall be responsible for the keeping of the books of the Park Board.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.7)
§ 32.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Board shall adopt rules necessary to conduct of its affairs and in
the keeping with the provisions of this chapter, subject to the review and
approval of the Board of Trustees. Funding for the Park Board shall be from the
private sector only.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.8)
§ 32.08 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Park Board shall run from January 1 through December
31.
(2008 Code, § 2.6.10)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Sales Tax
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Sales tax date
   
33.03   Use tax
   
33.04   Collection
   
33.05   Interpretation
SALES TAX
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the town, by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to the
powers granted to the town by the state, through SDCL § 10-52 entitled, Uniform
Municipal Non Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(2008 Code, § 2.7.1)
§ 33.02 SALES TAX DATE.
   There is hereby imposed as a municipal retail occupational sales and service
tax upon the privilege of engaging in business a tax measured by 2% on the
gross receipts of all persons engaged in business within the jurisdiction of
the town, who are subject to the South Dakota Retail Occupational Sales and
Service Tax, SDCL § 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto.
(2008 Code, § 2.7.2)
§ 33.03 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage, and consumption within the jurisdiction of the town of tangible
personal property or services purchased. The tax should be levied at the same
rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use,
storage, and consumption which are subject to the South Dakota Use Tax Act,
SDCL § 10-46, and acts amended thereto.
(2008 Code, § 2.7.3)
§ 33.04 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(2008 Code, § 2.7.4)
§ 33.05 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL § 10-45
and acts amendatory thereto, and the state use tax, SDCL § 10-46 and acts
amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except for
the rate thereof to that tax.
(2008 Code, § 2.7.5)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER SERVICES
      
52.   SEWER SERVICES
      
53.   SOLID WASTE SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility service; application required
   
50.02   Customer deposits
   
50.03   Utility billing; monthly
   
50.04   Vacated premises
   
50.05   Seasonal accounts
   
50.06   Notice of discontinuance required
   
50.07   Delinquent accounts
   
50.08   Account must be paid before water turned on
   
50.09   Landlord responsibilities
   
50.10   Liability of town
§ 50.01 UTILITY SERVICE; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the town
shall make application to the Finance Office by and through the following. All
criteria must be met prior to any utility services being connected and/or
reconnected:
         (a)   Completing a “Town of Ethan Utility Account Application” form as
approved by the Board of Trustees. Application information shall include, but
is not limited to, the applicant’s name, mailing address, service address,
phone number, and/or email address;
         (b)   Pay a customer deposit as established by motion;
         (c)   Pay a reconnect fee as established by motion when applicable;
and
         (d)   A separate application shall be made for each premise is to be
served with town utilities.
      (2)   Applicants shall abide by the rules and regulations established by
the town relative to utility service in effect at the time of application and
as they may be revised from time to time, in addition to conditions and
agreements as the Board of Trustees shall deem advisable.
   (B)   (1)   A landlord is subject to the application process for each rental
property as set forth in division (A) above.
      (2)   A landlord who elects to pass the responsibility for payment of
utility service onto the renter/tenant(s) and they meet the requirements set
forth in division (A) above, will negate the landlord from placing a customer
deposit with the application. Said exemption for the customer deposit is only
applicable when the landlord has made written acknowledgement of their
responsibilities for the property in accordance with §
50.09 of this chapter.
      (3)   Said landlord shall abide by the rules and regulations as
established by the town relative to utility service in effect at the time of
application and as they may be revised from time to time.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.1) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.02 CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   All new utility account applicants are required to pay a customer
deposit. The town does not accept letters of credit from previous utilities.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right and authority to review and
adjust the customer deposit amount through motion of said Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.2) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.03 UTILITY BILLING; MONTHLY.
   (A)   Bills for utility services are based on services provided to the
customer per town ordinance. The town does not pro-rate monthly utility
services.
   (B)   Bills are mailed around the first of the month and are due and payable
in the Finance Office on the fifteenth of each month. If the fifteenth falls on
a weekend or federally observed holiday, payment can be placed in the drop box
located at Town Hall and must be received by 7:00 a.m. on the following
business day.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.3) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.04 VACATED PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or tenant of any real property having municipal utility
service and responsible for payment of the monthly charges for water, sewer,
garbage and other municipal utilities and services shall pay the monthly
charges for all municipal utilities and services without regard to whether the
property is vacant for any period of time. The owner or tenant may avoid the
obligation to pay the monthly charge for municipal utilities and services for
any period of vacancy by having the town turn off the water service at the curb
stop and paying the service fee. An additional reconnection fee shall be
charged by the town when utility service is restored to the property. Such fees
shall be periodically set by motion.
   (B)   During this time, the town is not liable for any broken water meters,
frozen water lines or water breaks from the curb stop to the residence.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.4) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.05 SEASONAL ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Upon the request of a property owner, the town may suspend service and
reinstate service at the fees that have been set by motion. Water, sewer, and
garbage services and fees will be suspended during this time.
   (B)   The town is not liable for any broken water meters, frozen water
lines, or water breaks from the curb stop to the residence while vacant.
   (C)   The customer is held responsible to notify the Finance Office of their
return in order to have utility services and fees resumed.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.5) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.06 NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue the use of the town
utility services shall be required to give notice thereof to the Finance
Office, and regular rates shall be charged and billed until such notice is
given. Upon notice and direction from the owner and/or tenant, the water meter
will be readout by the town.
   (B)   Owners and/or landlords of rental properties must give notice of
change of tenants if the utilities are being billed to the tenant
   (C)   A disconnection and reconnection is required between tenants and/or
owners in order to secure the required application as set forth in §
50.01 of this chapter and ensure all accounts are paid in full. Readout of the
water meter may suffice between owners and/or tenants if the new owner and/or
tenant have complied with §
50.01 of this chapter.
   (D)   A disconnect and/or reconnect fee, as established by motion, will be
charged each time the town is required to turn off or on utility services.
   (E)   If the town becomes aware of the change in occupancy before proper
notification is given to the Finance Office, the town reserves the right to
immediately disconnect town utility services provided to the place of business
and/or residency being serviced.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.6) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.07 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Any utility payment received after the payment deadline as established
in §
50.03 of this chapter is considered delinquent and will be assessed a late fee
as set by motion of the Board of Trustees. The Finance Office will send a
delinquency notice stating the total amount due and the date by which to pay
the utility bill or the utility service will be disconnected. The consumer may
contact the Finance Office and appeal the bill.
   (B)   If water service is terminated (disconnected) due to non-payment, the
town will restore the water service only after all past due and current account
charges including a reconnection fee and any other applicable fees are paid in
full to the Finance Office.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right and authority to review and
adjust the late fee through motion of said Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.7) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.08 ACCOUNT MUST BE PAID BEFORE WATER TURNED ON.
   No person shall be permitted connection to the water system until all past
utility accounts for the property are fully paid. Reconnections will only be
done during business hours.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.8) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.09 LANDLORD RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   An owner of rental property, whether commercial or residential, is
hereby held responsible for payment of any delinquent water, sewer, or garbage
charges that are not promptly paid by the owner’s tenant or tenants.
   (B)   This chapter applies to all rental property, whether commercial,
single-family residential, apartment complexes, mobile home courts, or other
rental property. The owner shall be furnished with a copy of the notice of
delinquency that is served upon the tenant and the owner shall have all the
rights afforded by §
50.07 of this chapter.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.9) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 50.10 LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   The town shall not be liable for any damages to the property of any customer
of any utility service furnished by the town due to backflow of sewage system,
failure of water supply, interruption of service, or any cause outside the
direct control of the town.
(2008 Code, § 3.1.10) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICES
Section
   
51.01   Water Department; supervision and duties
   
51.02   Authority of Water Department
   
51.03   Plat of water mains and the like
   
51.04   Town water line and use
   
51.05   Extension of water pipes
   
51.06   Emergency water limitations
   
51.07   Water service; tap and connection charges
   
51.08   Water Department regulations
   
51.09   Joint water users liable
   
51.10   Water rates
   
51.11   Annual review of cost of water
§ 51.01 WATER DEPARTMENT; SUPERVISION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Water Department shall be under the supervision of the Maintenance
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Maintenance Superintendent shall be responsible for the management
and operation of the water and wells of the town, as well as supervision and
control over such persons employed by the town and assigned to his or her
department. The Maintenance Superintendent shall connect and disconnect water
service, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Maintenance Superintendent shall make a written report to the
Board of Trustees and shall make such recommendations as are proper for the
efficient operation of the water and sewer systems, and improvements thereof.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.1) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The Maintenance Superintendent or any employee of the Water Department shall
be permitted at all reasonable hours, and with due notification to resident, to
enter the premises or building of consumers for the purpose of checking meters,
examining water pipes and fixtures, and set or remove a meter or change its
location whenever necessary.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.2) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.03 PLAT OF WATER MAINS AND THE LIKE.
   The Water Department shall keep and maintain a plat on which shall be shown
a complete diagram of all town mains, all taps and service pipes, the size of
mains, and such other information as shall be deemed advisable by said
Department.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.3) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.04 TOWN WATER LINE AND USE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall connect,
disconnect, or do any work on any pipes or connections in any way connected to
the town water supply and pipe systems connected thereto.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.4) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 EXTENSION OF WATER PIPES.
   Plumbers must not extend water pipes from one premises to another without
the permission of the Board of Trustees or its duly authorized agent.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.5) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 EMERGENCY WATER LIMITATIONS.
   The town hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent the
use of any utility service furnished by the town during periods of emergency or
circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.6) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.07 WATER SERVICE; TAP AND CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Connections for water service furnished by the town shall be
supervised by the Maintenance Superintendent or an authorized town
representative, be completed by a licensed plumber, and paid for by the
customer served.
   (B)   Where there is no existing tap to the town water mains, or an
additional or different tap is to be made, application shall be made in writing
to the Finance Officer by the owner or agent of the property to be served.
   (C)   The application shall designate the legal description of the property,
what kind and size of tap to be made, the nature of the water use and if
residential use, specify the number of families or residences to be served
thereby, and shall be accompanied by the fee, as set forth by motion, to be
retained by the town if such application be allowed.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.7) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.08 WATER DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Standard service pipe connection. The standard connection with the
mains shall be approved by the town.
   (B)   Depth of service pipes. Within the limits of the street, service pipes
shall be laid not less than five feet below grade.
   (C)   Stops required. All persons having connections with the town water
mains must have a curb stop outside the property line and a shutoff either
outside the house or in the basement for shutting off water in case of leaks
and repairs.
   (D)   General. No claim shall be made against the town by reason of the
breaking of any service lines or apparatus or from any other damage that may
result from shutting off water for any reason. The town may make exceptions to
this division if construction-related activities cause the service line to
leak. Upon notification of the property owner that a water service line is
leaking, the owner shall promptly cause the service to be repaired by a
licensed contractor. Delay by the owner in repairing the service line shall be
cause for the service to be shut off until the repair is made. If the service
line is shut off by the town, the owner shall pay for all associated costs.
   (E)   Use of water. No consumer shall permit the owner or occupant of other
premises to use water from his or her service except by special permission from
the Water Department.
   (F)   One customer to each service. Two or more premises with separate
owners shall not be supplied from the same service pipe unless each has its own
curb stop at the sidewalk. Owners who lease or subdivide shall be responsible
for water used in said premises. If more than one meter is placed on a service
pipe, the meters shall be set so that not one of them shall measure water which
has passed through another meter.
   (G)   Inspection. No pipes installed underground shall be covered until they
have been inspected for leakage under system pressure. If the service line is
covered before being inspected, the Inspector may require the contractor to
expose the line for inspection or may require a pressure or flow test at the
contractor’s expense.
   (H)   Separate trench. Water lines may be laid in the same trench as a sewer
line but must be laid above the sewer line. In instances where it is not
permissible to lay the water line above the sewer line, the water line may be
laid below the sewer line, but it must be incased in a protective barrier and
approved by the Maintenance Superintendent. All water lines installed with a
sewer line in the same trench shall be separated by at least one-foot of
horizontal distance. All services shall be placed on stable existing material
or select and approved backfill material. The State Plumbing Code will take
precedence over this section.
   (I)   Construction over water lines. No person shall construct or erect any
building or structure upon any lateral or trunk town water main unless he or
she shall have written permission of the Board of Trustees. The Maintenance
Superintendent shall specify what provisions shall be made in the construction
thereof to protect the water line, and to provide for the purpose of
maintenance and repairs.
   (J)   Owner responsibility for pipes and fixtures. The town service line
includes the curb stop and water supply pipe extending from the town main to
the curb stop, and will be maintained by the town. The customer service line
includes the water supply pipe and all fixtures extending from the curb stop to
the premises served. All owners must, at their own expense, keep the customer
service line in good working order and properly protected from frost and other
hazards. The initial installation of the town service line, the customer
service line, and any applicable repair costs to the town streets during the
installation will be at the owner’s expense.
   (K)   Water meters. All dwellings or places supplied with water from the
town system shall be metered by the town. They are used for the measurement of
water and sewer utility services furnished by the town and shall be approved
and installed by, and remain the property of the town. All water registered on
the meter is the responsibility of the customer. A suitable place for meters,
safe from frost or other damage and accessible for examination, must be
provided by and at the expense of the owner or occupant. In cases where meters
fail to register the amount of water used, charges shall be based upon the
average used during two or more preceding periods of similar length and during
a similar time of year. If meters are damaged by freezing or neglect, the owner
or occupant of the premises must pay for such damage. In any case where the
neglect, refusal to repair, or refusal to pay said expenses thereof, the water
supply may be disconnected and not reconnected until such costs and said fees
are paid.
   (L)   Meter vaults/pits. All meters located outside of basements or
locations that are not protected from freezing shall be placed in meter vaults/
pits designed and constructed as approved by the Water Department.
   (M)   Sealing abandoned water lines. It shall be the duty of any landowner
who shall abandon any water service line to cause the water service line to be
securely and permanently capped and sealed, notwithstanding that the water
service is shut off at the curb stop or to remove the water service line to the
curb stop. Removal, demolition, or other destruction of the residences or other
improvements upon the real property shall be prima facie evidence that the
water service line has been abandoned. This section shall not apply to mobile
home parks and camping grounds, unless the mobile home park or camp ground is,
in fact, no longer operating as a business. All capping and sealing shall be
approved by the town.
   (N)   Portable meters, special water users and permit. All water must be
extracted and metered from an approved distribution source or connection.
   (O)   Frozen water lines. The town shall bear the cost of thawing water
lines from the main to the curb box. The owner of the property shall bear the
cost of thawing water lines from the residence or building to the curb box.
   (P)   Cross-connections.
      (1)   No faucet connection, valve, or like appliance so constructed as to
form a cross-connection, directly or indirectly, between a safe drinking water
supply and an unsafe or questionable water supply, shall be permitted.
      (2)   No licensed plumber or any other person shall make any cross-
connection to the water system, supply from a well, cistern or any other source
whatsoever, nor from the town water system to any drain pipe, sewer pipe, or
septic tank.
   (Q)   Surface water wells. New surface water wells are prohibited within the
town.
   (R)   Privy vaults and outdoor water closets. Privy vaults and outdoor water
closets are prohibited within the town.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.8) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 JOINT WATER USERS LIABLE.
   In case two or more users are supplied with water from the same service
pipe, if any of the parties fail to pay the water charge when due, or to comply
with any rule of the town, the town reserves the right to disconnect water from
the whole service until such charge is paid, or the rules strictly complied
with, and it is expressly stipulated that no claim for damage or otherwise may
be made against the town by any user whose water charge has been paid, or who
has complied with the rules of said town, because of such disconnection, it
being expressly stipulated that the necessity for such shut off shall be deemed
to be the joint act of all served through such service.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.9) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.10 WATER RATES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, USERS OF WATER shall mean the owner
or occupant of each individual residential or commercial premise, including,
but not limited to, the owner or occupant of each apartment in a multiple-
family dwelling, each mobile home in a mobile home park and hotel and motel
facilities.
   (B)   All users of water within the corporate limits of the town shall pay
to the town for water used by them as follows:
      (1)   All water used shall be paid for at a rate per 1,000 gallons of
water; and
      (2)   The rate per 1,000 gallons of water used shall be set by motion of
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   In addition to the water consumption charge, all users shall pay a
minimum monthly base rate
as set by motion of the Board of Trustees. The rates will be set by the size of
the water meter.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.10) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 51.11 ANNUAL REVIEW OF COST OF WATER.
   The town shall annually conduct a review of the costs of operation and
maintenance of the town water system. The town shall also annually review and
revise as necessary the water consumption rates to insure rate equity among the
various users and to further insure the availability of sufficient funds to
adequately operate and maintain the water system of the town.
(2008 Code, § 3.2.11) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICES
Section
   
52.01   Sewer Department; supervision and duties
   
52.02   Town sewer lines and uses
   
52.03   Sewer service; tap and connection charges
   
52.04   Sewer repair
   
52.05   Sewer Department regulations
   
52.06   Refuse prohibited
   
52.07   Sewage rates
   
52.08   Annual review of cost of sewer operation
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 SEWER DEPARTMENT: SUPERVISION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Sewer Department shall be under the supervision of the Maintenance
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Maintenance Superintendent shall be responsible for the sewage
system and lagoons of the town, as well as supervision and control over all
persons employed by the town and assigned to his or her department. The
Maintenance Superintendent shall make or supervise all taps of public sewers in
addition to such other duties as shall be prescribed by the Board of Trustees
or by the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   The Maintenance Superintendent shall make a written report to the
Board of Trustees as may be required or requested by the Board of Trustees and
shall make such recommendations as are proper for the efficient operation of
the sewer system and improvements thereof.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.1) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 52.02 TOWN SEWER LINES AND USES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall connect,
disconnect, or do any work on any sewer pipes, connections, or equipment in any
way connected to the town sewer system.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.2) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 SEWER SERVICE; TAP AND CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Connections for sewer service furnished by the town shall be
supervised by the Maintenance Superintendent or an authorized town
representative, be completed by a licensed plumber, and paid for by the
customer served.
   (B)   Where there is no existing tap to the town sewer mains, or an
additional or different tap is to be made, application shall be made in writing
to the Finance Officer by the owner or agent of the property to be served.
   (C)   The application shall designate the legal description of the property,
what kind and size tap to be made, the nature of the sewage use and if
residential use, specify the number of families or residences to be served
thereby, and shall be accompanied by the fee, as set forth by motion, to be
retained by the town if such application be allowed.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.3) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 52.04 SEWER REPAIR.
   Whenever any sewer connecting a building with a common sewer or another
drain, becomes obstructed, broken or out of order in any way, the person in
charge of the premises drained by such sewer shall, within 48 hours after
notice from the Maintenance Superintendent, reconstruct, repair, or cleanse
such sewer. In case of neglect or refusal, the Maintenance Superintendent shall
report the same to the Board of Trustees who shall cause such sewer to be
reconstructed, repaired, or cleansed at the expense of the person in charge who
shall be charged in the same manner as for special assessment.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.4) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 52.05 SEWER DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sewer connection required. Any person having charge of any structure
which is near any street in which the common sewer is or may be laid, shall
within 15 days after written notice, connect his or her dwelling or house with
a common sewer main as named by the Maintenance Superintendent, if said
structure shall accommodate humans.
   (B)   Materials used in sewer and connections. The main sanitary sewer soil
pipe and its branches shall be of PVC or, upon approval by the Maintenance
Superintendent, pipe having equivalent quality.
   (C)   Minimum grade. All sewers outside of buildings must be laid in the
ground of sufficient solidity for a proper foundation and in a trench with a
uniform grade of not less than one-eighth inch to the foot and one-fourth inch
if practicable.
   (D)   Separate connections. The main drain of each house or building shall
be independently connected to the sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Existing connections. Existing building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
tested by the Maintenance Superintendent, to meet all requirements of the sewer
regulations.
   (F)   Connections not allowed. No connection from any cesspool or privy
vault shall be made with any sanitary sewer or drainpipe.
   (G)   Construction over sewer lines. No person shall construct or erect any
building or structure upon lateral or trunk town sewer lines or water mains
unless he or she shall have written permission of the Board of Trustees. The
Maintenance Superintendent shall specify what provisions shall be made in the
construction thereof to protect the sewer line or water line, or both, and to
provide for the purpose of maintenance and repairs.
   (H)   Inspection. No sewer trench shall be filled or sewer pipe covered,
until the sewer service has first been inspected by the Maintenance
Superintendent or his or her assistant. Persons making sewer connections shall
give at least 48 hours’ notice to the Maintenance Superintendent of the time
when such sewer service shall be ready for inspection. The Maintenance
Superintendent shall inspect the sewer within a reasonable time and if such
sewer service is not properly laid or connected, the Maintenance Superintendent
shall order the same taken out and re-laid. When such sewer service is
completed, approved, and permission granted, the owner or person in charge
shall be allowed to use the same.
   (I)   Filling. The filling of earth around and on top of all connecting
pipes with lateral or main sewers shall be done in a manner to obtain the
greatest compaction possible. The earth shall be laid and tamped in regular
layers not exceeding nine inches in depth up to the road surface or thoroughly
soaked with water, and the street or alley shall be left in as good a
condition, whether paved or unpaved, as it was prior to the laying of such pipe
connection.
   (J)   Owner responsibility for pipes and fixtures. The town service line
includes the sewer main and will be maintained by the town. The customer
service line includes the sewer connection at the main, the sewer pipe, and all
fixtures extending from the main to the premises served. All owners must, at
their own expense, keep the customer service line in good working order and
properly protected from frost and other hazards. The initial connection to the
main and future repairs on the customer’s service line will be at the owner’s
expense.
   (K)   Dimensions of house and building drain. All house and building drains
connected to the sanitary sewer service shall be at least four inches in
diameter.
   (L)   Drains in public garages and wash racks. Every public garage or other
public place having a wash rack used for washing vehicles shall install a
standard garage drain approved by the Maintenance Superintendent. Such drain
shall be so constructed and operated as to prevent mud, sand, and other debris
from being washed into the town sewer system, and shall be kept in proper
working order. The provisions of this section shall apply only if the sewage is
discharged into the town sewer system.
   (M)   Cesspool drainage into streets and gutters prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to allow any cesspool or septic tank to drain into any
of the streets and gutters of the town.
   (N)   Prohibited connections with public sanitary sewer. No person,
corporation, or other public or private entity shall make or cause to be made
any connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, area drains, or any other
source of surface water or groundwater, either directly or indirectly, to the
town sanitary sewer system, for any purpose.
   (O)   Cross-connections. No faucet connection, valve, or like appliance so
constructed as to form a cross-connection, directly or indirectly, between a
safe drinking water supply and an unsafe or questionable water supply, shall be
permitted. No licensed plumber or any other person shall make any cross-
connection to the water system, supply from a well, cistern or any other source
whatsoever, nor from the town water system to any drain pipe, sewer pipe or
septic tank.
   (P)   Sealing intermittently used sewer lines.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any landowner, who shall have located on
his or her premises sewer service lines that are subject to periods of non-use,
to provide for the temporary sealing of the service line when not in actual use
for the disposal of sewage for any period of time. The method used to
temporarily seal any unused sewer lines shall be designed and adequate to
prevent any liquids or solid matter from entering the sewer lines. This section
specifically applies to mobile home parks, campgrounds, and any other location
where access to the town sewer system is available other than through the
plumbing system of a permanent structure.
      (2)   This section shall also be applicable to any landowner upon whose
property the improvements have been removed, demolished, or destroyed by any
cause and upon which the landowner intends to rebuild the improvements.
      (3)   The landowner shall immediately notify the town when the temporary
sealing or capping is completed and the Maintenance Superintendent shall
inspect the sewer inlets to assure compliance with this section and the
approved method of temporary sealing or capping of the sewer inlet. In the
event a landowner increases the number of sewer service inlets, the landowner
shall apply for a new permit for the additional inlets. In the event one or
more of the sewer inlets are damaged and require repair to comply with this
section, the landowner shall immediately repair the same and notify the Finance
Officer. Upon notification, the Maintenance Superintendent shall inspect the
repairs to assure the repairs are in compliance with this chapter.
   (Q)   Sealing abandoned sewer lines. It shall be the duty of any landowner
who shall abandon any sewer service line to cause the sewer service line to be
securely and permanently capped and sealed, or to remove the sewer service line
to the trunk sewer. Removal, demolition or other destruction of the residences
or other improvements upon the real property shall be prima facie evidence that
the sewer service line has been abandoned. This section shall not apply to
mobile home parks and camping grounds unless the mobile home park or campground
is, in fact, no longer operating as a business concern. All capping and sealing
shall be approved by the town.
   (R)   Septic tanks and cesspools. The construction of cesspools and
installation of septic tanks are prohibited within the town.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.5) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No one shall discharge or permit to be discharged any of the following
described water, wastes, or other materials to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, grease (including cooking
grease), oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any water or wastes having corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater
works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   Permitted to be discharged/deposited into any sewer line connected
with a public sewer include the following: feces, urine, necessary closet
paper, liquid house waste, and domestic garbage process by an approved disposal
unit.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.6) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 SEWAGE RATES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, USERS OF THE SANITARY SEWERS shall mean
the owner or occupant of each individual residential or commercial premises,
including, but not limited to, the owner or occupant of each apartment in a
multiple-family dwelling and each mobile home in a mobile home park.
   (B)   All users of the sanitary sewers within the corporate limits of the
town as defined above shall pay a minimum monthly fee as set by motion of the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   In addition to the monthly usage fee, each user shall pay a surcharge
fee as set by motion of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.8) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 52.08 ANNUAL REVIEW OF COST OF SEWER OPERATION.
   The town shall annually conduct a review of the costs of operation and
maintenance of the town sewer system. The town shall also annually review and
revise as necessary the sewer use rates to insure rate equity among the various
users and to further insure the availability of sufficient funds to adequately
operate and maintain the sanitary sewer system of the town.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.9) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any person who
violates §§
52.05(G), (P), or
52.06 shall be fined by the court the sum of $200 and court costs. In addition,
the court may require the violator to reimburse the town for all costs incurred
in cleaning or repairing any sewer lines affected as a result of a violation of
this section. Costs incurred shall include any costs incurred by the town to
accomplish remedial measures in the entire sewer system, including the
wastewater lagoon, caused by a violation of this section.
   (B)   The town shall be, and hereby is, authorized and directed to institute
legal action against any landowner violating this section to recover the costs
of cleaning or repairing any sewer lines affected by a violation of this
section. Costs incurred shall include any costs incurred by the town to
accomplish remedial measures in the entire sewer system, including the
wastewater lagoon, caused by a violation of this section.
(2008 Code, § 3.3.7) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE SERVICES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Regulations
   
53.03   Services fees and collection
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person who hauls or transports any garbage, trash,
refuse, rubbish, and waste material through or upon the streets or alleys of
the town for a consideration or a fee, or as part of a business activity.
   COMMERCIAL UNITS. Any occupied premises other than family domestic unit.
   FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT.
      (1)   Any single independent family unit, irrespective of number of
persons constituting such family.
      (2)   Each independent family unit living in multiple dwelling
residences, apartment houses, or any type of residence, including, but not
limited to, trailer houses, shall each be deemed a family domestic unit for the
purpose of this chapter. A rooming house that supplies lodging only for hire,
and which does not serve meals to any lodger and does not permit cooking and
eating on the premises, shall be deemed a one-family domestic unit for the
purposes of this chapter.
   OCCUPIED PREMISES. Any place of abode, dwelling, or any place of business or
commercial activity, in operation, shall be prima facie evidence that garbage,
trash, and refuse is being produced and accumulated on said premises and shall
be the duty of the town, and its agents, officers, and employees, to inspect
and supervise said premises and remove therefrom any and all garbage, trash, or
refuse found thereon.
(2008 Code, § 3.4.1) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 53.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Accumulation of garbage, trash, or refuse unlawful. Any accumulation
of garbage, trash, or refuse on any premises, occupied or unoccupied in a
manner other than that authorized by this chapter, within the limits of the
town, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited.
   (B)   Unlawful dumping. No garbage, trash, or refuse shall be stored or
accumulated anywhere within the limits of the town in a manner other than
authorized by this chapter or thrown or swept into any street, gutter, sewer,
intake, alley, vacant lot, pond, or other property. Every occupied premises
within the town shall be responsible for the keeping of the sidewalks in front
of any buildings or improvements located thereon, if any, free from any
accumulation of all garbage, trash, or refuse. Every property owner and
occupant of every family, domestic unit, or commercial unit shall, however, be
authorized to keep and store garbage, trash, and refuse in the manner defined
by this chapter.
   (C)   Burning unlawful. No garbage, trash, leaves, or refuse of any kind
shall be burned within the limits of the town, other than approved state
regulated incinerators.
   (D)   Collections. Pursuant to South Dakota Codified Law and ARSD, the town
shall regulate the manner of handling of garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, and
other waste material in the following manner.
      (1)   Family domestic units. The town hereby specifically reserves unto
itself the exclusive right to collect, remove, and dispose of all garbage,
trash, refuse, and rubbish from all family domestic units within the corporate
limits of said town; provided, however, nothing herein shall limit or prevent
the town from making and entering into contracts with private persons or other
governmental subdivisions for the purpose of contracting for the collection,
removal, and disposal of all garbage, or to obtain by contract, any and all
services for which the town may be responsible by virtue of this chapter.
      (2)   Commercial units. All commercial units shall make arrangements for
disposal of their garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, and waste material with a
commercial hauler.
   (E)   Private contractors. The town shall be authorized upon the advertising
and letting for bids, as provided for by law, to contract with private
individuals, for the removal of all or any specified part of any garbage,
trash, or refuse, and upon such terms and for such periods as the Board of
Trustees may obtain from the lowest and best possible bid or bidders therefor.
   (F)   Removal to authorized restricted use rubble site. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the town, or such persons or subdivisions with whom
it has contracted, is hereby required to dispose of all such garbage, trash, or
refuse at an authorized dump grounds and dispose of in the manner required by
law. The deposit, dumping, collection, and other disposition of all garbage,
trash, and refuse within the limits of the town, at any other unauthorized
area, is hereby declared unlawful.
   (G)   Rubble site open schedule. The Board of Trustees shall establish the
days of the week and hours during which the town rubble site shall be open to
the public for the disposal of lawful materials.
   (H)   Items accepted. Items accepted will be allowed according to state
regulations for this type of facility.
(2008 Code, § 3.4.2) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 SERVICE FEES AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized, empowered, and
directed, from time to time, to set by motion monthly service fees for the
collection, hauling, and disposition of all garbage, trash, and refuse;
provided, however, separate fees shall be established for each of the following
categories:
      (1)   Family domestic units;
      (2)   Commercial units; and
      (3)   Restricted use rubble site fees for the disposition of accepted
refuse.
   (B)   Collection. The monthly service fees, as determined by the Board of
Trustees, shall be added to and collected as a part of all water bills sent out
and utilized in the normal course of the operation of the Water Department.
Said service charge shall, however, be separately stated on such bills. Bills
for charges pursuant to this chapter shall be due and payable each month at the
same time as the water billing.
   (C)   Charges not paid. If such charge is not paid when due, the water
service to the occupied premises may be terminated by the town in the same
manner as provided for in the event of delinquent water and sewer charges, and
such water service shall not be restored until the charge in question has been
paid in full, together with any penalty otherwise provided for by this chapter.
   (D)   Special billing. In any situation wherein garbage service must be
furnished to any person, who is not obtaining water service, said individuals
shall be billed on a monthly basis or upon such other basis as the Board of
Trustees may, by motion, establish.
(2008 Code, § 3.4.3) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
53.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200 or cost of removal or both.
(2008 Code, § 3.4.2) (Ord. 26, passed 11-16-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic direction
   
70.02   Turning at intersections
   
70.03   Exhibition driving
   
70.04   Official traffic signs and signals
   
70.05   Obedience of traffic signals
   
70.06   Directing traffic
   
70.07   Emergency vehicles
   
70.08   Speed
   
70.09   Stalled vehicles
   
70.10   Abandoned vehicles
   
70.11   Fire hoses
Pedestrians
   
70.25   Crosswalks
   
70.26   Right-of-way
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC DIRECTION.
   The operator of a vehicle shall drive the same upon the right half of the
street, and the operator of a slow-moving vehicle shall drive the same as close
as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, unless it is
impracticable to travel on such side of the street, and except when overtaking
and passing another vehicle subject to the limitations applicable by law in
overtaking and passing.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.1)
§ 70.02 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   No operator of a vehicle shall execute a turn, except in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   Right turns. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to right at
an intersection or into an alley or driveway shall approach the point of turn
in the right-hand half of the roadway and in turning shall keep as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of street.
   (B)   Left turns. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to left at an
intersection or into an alley or driveway shall approach the point of turning
in the right-hand half of the roadway, and unless otherwise directed by turning
to the left as at intersections shall pass to the right of the center of the
intersection before turning.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle within the town in such a manner that
creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid, or slide upon
acceleration or stopping, or that simulates a temporary race, or that causes
the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The Board of Trustees shall by resolution determine and designate the
character and type of all official signs and signals.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.4)
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   No person shall violate any rule, regulation, traffic direction, sign, or
marking adopted, prescribed, or established in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. Law enforcement officers are hereby authorized
to direct all traffic, either in person or by means of visible or audible
signal in conformance with the provisions of this subchapter, provided that in
the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, law enforcement, officers of the Police or Fire Department
personnel, or any authorized individual may direct traffic, as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order,
signal, or direction of a law enforcement officer.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow closer than 500 feet of any fire vehicle or
ambulance traveling in response to a fire alarm or emergency call and to drive
into or stop any vehicle within the block where such fire apparatus or
ambulance has stopped in answer to such fire alarm or emergency call.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle on Main Street in the town,
between Depot Street and Third Street, at a speed greater than 15 mph. No
person shall drive or operate any vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town, other than above provided, at a speed greater than 20 mph.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 STALLED VEHICLES.
   No person operating a motor vehicle upon the public streets shall allow such
vehicle to become partially or wholly stalled so as to impede street cleaning
or other traffic within the roadway.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person operating a motor vehicle upon the public streets which has been
stalled and/or improperly parked within the roadway because of the condition of
the streets shall abandon such vehicle within the roadway. Such vehicle shall
be considered abandoned if the owner or operator is not with the vehicle
(2008 Code, § 6.1.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 FIRE HOSES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over any fire hose owned by the town when
the same is in use on the streets or alleys of said town.
(2008 Code, § 6.1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.25 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   The town has no marked crosswalks; however, pedestrians are to treat
intersections as though a designated crosswalk exists.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks, and they shall move with reasonable dispatch at all crosswalks.
   (C)   No pedestrian should go from one side of the street to the other,
except at a right angle and at a regular crosswalk, upon any street in the
business section or on a through street.
(2008 Code, § 6.2.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by a law enforcement officer or traffic
control signals.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any other point than within a
marked crosswalk or any unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block shall yield
the right-of-way to vehicles upon the roadway, provided that this provision
shall not relieve the driver of any vehicle from the duty to exercise due care
for the safety of pedestrians.
(2008 Code, § 6.2.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   General regulations
   
71.02   Prohibitions
   
71.03   Commercial vehicles
   
71.04   Exceptions
   
71.05   Off-street parking
§ 71.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Except when necessary in obedience of traffic regulations or traffic signs
or signals, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, or park such vehicle
on Main Street in the town other than in standard parking areas and not within
less than three feet between said vehicles so parked. Upon all other streets
within the town, all vehicles shall be parked parallel with the curb line or
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of the traffic and with the
curb side wheels of the vehicles within six inches of the edge of the roadway.
(2008 Code, § 6.3.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer, or traffic-control signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Outside the first line of cars parked next to the curb lines;
   (D)   Within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   In front of a private driveway;
   (H)   On a sidewalk; or
   (I)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(2008 Code, § 6.3.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parking and storage of commercial vehicles, construction equipment,
farm equipment, or materials upon municipal streets or rights-of way is
prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to park, store, leave,
or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any commercial vehicle,
construction or farm equipment, and materials upon any street or public right-
of-way.
(2008 Code, § 6.3.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following, provided
said vehicle is not standing within the public right-of-way for a period
greater than 24 hours:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Personal passenger vehicles;
   (C)   Vehicles that are disabled;
   (D)   Light delivery trucks delivering goods from place to place;
   (E)   Garbage or recycling trucks during collection activities;
   (F)   Vehicles in the process of loading or unloading;
   (G)   Vehicles parked in connection with a construction site;
   (H)   Vehicles or equipment which are properly signed and parked temporarily
in connection with the performance of a construction or maintenance service to
property on or under the town right-of-way; and
   (I)   Vehicles, immobile equipment, or materials parked in connection with a
construction site for longer than 24 hours for which the owner or lessor has
obtained and posted a building permit from the Finance Officer and are in
compliance with the limitations or conditions prescribed by the town at the
time of issuance.
(2008 Code, § 6.3.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All properties, residential, industrial, or commercial, shall be large
enough to provide off-street loading and unloading and off-street parking.
(2008 Code, § 6.3.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND BICYCLES
Section
   
72.01   Private property
   
72.02   Public right-of-way
   
72.03   Registration
   
72.04   Riding on bicycles
   
72.05   Campers and motor homes
§ 72.01 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, or all-
terrain vehicles on or across the private property of another, unless
permission to do so has been first obtained by the vehicle operator or vehicle
owner of the snowmobile, go-cart, golf cart, or all-terrain vehicle.
(2008 Code, § 6.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, and all-terrain vehicles may be operated
on the roadways of the town subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   No snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, or all-terrain vehicles may be
operated within the town during the hours of darkness unless the vehicle has
working lights affixed to it.
   (B)   All unlicensed snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, and all-terrain
vehicles operated on roadways shall display a 12-inch by 12-inch orange flag
attached to the snowmobile, go-cart, golf cart, or all-terrain vehicle in such
a manner that the bottom of the flag measures 60 inches from the roadway
surface.
   (C)   Snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, and all-terrain vehicles are
prohibited from operating in all parks and recreation areas.
   (D)   All snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, and all-terrain vehicles
operated within the town shall be subject to the same traffic ordinances,
rules, and regulations as pertain to the operation of motor vehicles operated
on town roadways and must follow state laws including that they be operated by
a licensed driver.
   (E)   In the event of an emergency, permission may be granted by any law
enforcement officer, the Board of Trustees President, or County Emergency
Manager for the use of the town roadways.
(2008 Code, § 6.4.2) (Ord. 21, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 REGISTRATION.
   All snowmobiles, go-carts, golf carts, and all-terrain vehicles operated
within the town must comply with title, registration, and licensing
requirements of the state, when applicable. All operators must have a valid
driver’s license or permit and proof of insurance in their possession.
(2008 Code, § 6.4.3) (Ord. 22, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Any person riding a bicycle, tricycle, or other similar vehicle upon
any street, alley, or other public ground in the night time shall mount a
reflector light in such manner that any person in said street, alley, or other
public ground shall be warned of his or her approach.
   (B)   No person shall on any street, alley, or other public ground in this
town ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other similar vehicle at a dangerous or
reckless rate of speed and shall yield to all pedestrians or other persons.
(2008 Code, § 6.4.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 CAMPERS AND MOTOR HOMES.
   (A)   No campers or motor homes may park overnight on city property, except
for in an emergency situation or in designated camping locations.
   (B)   Campers or motor homes may be parked on city streets for up to three
days for the purpose of loading and unloading. Campers or motor homes may be
used to house family members for up to 14 days, but shall not be used as rental
property or to house employees, nor used as long-term housing.
   (C)   A conditional use permit may be granted by the City Council on a case-
by-case basis.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisance declared
   
90.03   Storing, parking, or leaving vehicle on public property
   
90.04   Presence on private property
   
90.05   Appeals
   
90.06   Racing or antique vehicles
   
90.07   Removal by town; notice to owner
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is left unattended on any
public street or alley, in any public parking lot, or in any other public place
for more than seven consecutive days.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto unexpired license plates or which is wrecked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperable, or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, go-carts, golf carts, and
campers.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.1)
§ 90.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junk, or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public
property, is declared a public nuisance pursuant to SDCL § 21-10-3. This
section shall not apply to any motor vehicle enclosed with a building on
private property or to any motor vehicle held in connection with a business
enterprise or to any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted
or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways and covered with an
appropriate cover to screen it from view, which vehicle remains on private
property.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.2)
§ 90.03 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking,
storing, or leaving of any abandoned or junk motor vehicle of any kind, whether
attended or not, upon any public property in the town.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.3)
   (B)   Removal. Whenever any law enforcement person or any person of
authority designated by the town finds an abandoned motor vehicle or junk motor
vehicle on public property, he or she shall place a written notice on the
vehicle, stating that it will be removed to a garage or place of safety unless
the owner removes the vehicle from public property within 24 hours of the
giving of the notice. After the expiration of the 24-hour period, the vehicle
may be removed by a removal agency to a garage or place of safety. Nothing in
this section precludes authorities from immediately removing a motor vehicle
which causes an obstruction or hazard to traffic.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PRESENCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. No person owning, in charge of, or in control of any real
property with the town, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any abandoned or junk motor vehicle of any kind to
remain on the property longer than 15 days.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.5)
   (B)   Notice to remove. Whenever it comes to the attention of a town
employee or official that any person has an abandoned or junk motor vehicle on
his or her property, a notice in writing shall be served by first class mail to
the record owner of the property and such other of the persons referenced in
division (A) above as can be ascertained, ordering the removal of such motor
vehicle in the time specified in this chapter. The notice shall be deemed
complete upon mailing to the last known address of the record owner. The notice
shall be deemed complete upon mailing to the last known address of the record
owner. The notice shall contain the request for removal within 15 days after
mailing of such notice, and the notice shall state that failure to complete
with the notice to remove shall be a violation of this chapter. The recipient
of such notice shall have ten days from the date of the mailing to file a
notice of appeal of the determination contained therein. The notice of appeal
must be in writing and filed with the Finance Officer. All appeals shall be
heard and decided by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 APPEALS.
   Any order issued by the Board of Trustees or law enforcement may be appealed
to the Board of Trustees, in writing, and within 15 days of the issuance of the
order. Such written notice of appeal shall be submitted to Town Hall. Appeals
shall be reviewed by the Board of Trustees and the determination of the Board
of Trustees shall be provided in writing to the person making the appeal.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 RACING OR ANTIQUE VEHICLES.
   No owner or occupant of private property shall have an uncovered motor
vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on
drag strips or raceways or an uncovered motor vehicle retained on private
property for antique collection purposes.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 REMOVAL BY TOWN; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Towing by removal agency. The town may abate the nuisance by causing
the motor vehicle to be towed from the property by a removal agency. The town
shall then notify, by first class mail, the registered owner, and if
encumbered, the lien holder, of the removal, storage and present location of
any motor vehicle removed under the provisions of this chapter and that the
vehicle can be recovered by payment of costs incident to its removal and
storage.
   (B)   Disposal. Additionally, the town may abate the nuisance by removing
the junk motor vehicle or parts thereof and disposing of them.
   (C)   Cost. The town may defray the cost of abating the public nuisance by
taxing the cost thereof by special assessment against the real property on
which the nuisance occurred.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the abatement remedies provided in this chapter, any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalty
provision as set forth in §
10.99.
(2008 Code, § 7.3.10)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Permitted animals
   
91.03   Prohibited animals
   
91.04   License
   
91.05   Fee schedule
   
91.06   Immunizations
   
91.07   Immunization tag
   
91.08   Number of animals
   
91.09   Nuisances
   
91.10   Care
   
91.11   Running at-large prohibited
   
91.12   Disturbance of peace by animals
Hunting, Trapping, and Poison
   
91.25   Hunting prohibited
   
91.26   Poison
   
91.27   Trapping of animals
Rabies
   
91.40   Rabid animals
   
91.41   Reporting
   
91.42   Impoundment
   
91.43   Destruction
Vicious Animals
   
91.55   Defined
   
91.56   Declared
   
91.57   Exemption
   
91.58   Notification
   
91.59   Owner responsibility
   
91.60   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to describe the conditions and requirements
allowing citizens to keep animals within the town, and to describe the town’s
responsibilities to its citizens regarding the humane and appropriate keeping
of animals within the town.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.1)
§ 91.02 PERMITTED ANIMALS.
   Animals commonly purchased from a licensed pet store in the state are
allowed by this chapter and may be kept in the town. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prohibit the keeping of domestic cats (felis domesticus),
European polecats or ferrets (Mustela putorius foro), and domestic dogs (Canis
familiaris), as long as license or permit procedures are followed.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.2)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   Livestock, native species, and exotic pets are prohibited within the town
unless a permit from the town is obtained. Common animals hereby identified as
prohibited shall include, but are not limited to: cattle, sheep, swine, goats,
horses, alligators, crocodiles, caymans, llamas, raccoons, skunks, foxes,
bears, sea mammals, poisonous snakes, hybrids, members of the feline species
other than domestic cat (felis domesticus), members of the canine species other
than domestic dog (canis familiaris), domestic fowl of the order Galliformes
(chickens, turkeys, grouse, pheasants), and the order Anseriformes (ducks and
geese), or any other animal that would require a standard of care and control
greater than that required for customary household pets.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 LICENSE.
   Any owner or keeper of a dog or cat of the age of six months or over shall,
within 30 days of the acquisition of such animal or within 30 days of the time
such animal becomes six months old, obtain an appropriate license.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.4) (Ord. 18, passed 4-19-2012)
§ 91.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Board of Trustees may in special circumstances, after a hearing by the
Board of Trustees, exempt the license fee in individual cases. Unless an
exemption has been secured, the fee for an original and a renewal dog or cat
license shall be $5 for all dogs or cats.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.6) (Ord. 23, passed 11-16-2014)
§ 91.06 IMMUNIZATIONS.
   Every animal, except fowl, fish, and reptile, authorized by this chapter
held as a domestic pet in the town, three months of age or older, is hereby
required to be immunized against rabies by a licensed veterinarian or other
qualified person. Immunization against rabies shall be given by such intervals
to guarantee immunity, and the minimum time period between vaccinations shall
be determined by the available vaccine and based upon the recommendations and
approval of the state veterinarian. Any owner acquiring an animal authorized by
this chapter by purchase, gift, birth, or other method shall have such animal
immunized against rabies immediately after acquisition or when the animal
reaches the age of three months. In the event no immunization serum is
available for a particular animal, then it need not be immunized.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.7)
§ 91.07 IMMUNIZATION TAG.
   All veterinarians or other qualified person designated by the Health Officer
to immunize animals against rabies shall provide the owner at the time of
immunization with a metallic tag bearing the date of the immunization. All
animals shall have said tag affixed to a collar, harness, or chain when off the
premises of the owner.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.8)
§ 91.08 NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to have or to keep more than four permitted
animals over the age of six months, except birds and fish, on any lot or
premises in the town, unless such person residing on or in the lot or premises
has a valid kennel license issued by the Board of Trustees. Governmental
agencies, veterinarian offices, and licensed pet stores are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.9) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 NUISANCES.
   The keeping of animals on any private property in the town shall not be on a
scale creating a nuisance. It is considered a nuisance and shall be unlawful
for any person to keep and maintain (other than the care and treatment of
injured or abandoned birds and animals by people licensed for that purpose) or
to sell native fur bearers, bears, mountain lions, bobcats, lynx, panthers,
endangered species, exotic cats, or venomous snakes.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 CARE.
   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to enter into any contract with
any person, association, or corporation for the housing, care, disposition, or
destruction of animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.13)
§ 91.11 RUNNING AT-LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No owner of any dog, cat, or other animal held as a domestic pet in
the town shall permit such animal to run at-large at any time, and any such
animal found at large may be impounded as hereinafter provided. An owner
reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay the actual cost of impoundment, plus
the following fee: with a current license, the first impoundment shall be $75;
second impoundment and any subsequent impoundment within a 12-month period
shall be $100. Without a license, the first impoundment shall be $100; second
impoundment and any subsequent impoundment within a 12-month period shall be
$125. Upon impounding, the owner of such animal may at any time within three
days after the same shall have been impounded, reclaim the animal by paying the
expense of keeping such animal, in addition to the fee prescribed by this
section. If any animal so impounded shall not be reclaimed within three days
and reasonable efforts to locate the owner have failed, the town is authorized
to destroy, sell, or otherwise dispose of such animal.
   (B)   Any domestic animal shall be required to wear a tag, when so given by
the veterinarian, when such animal is off the premises of the owner as provided
in this chapter.
   (C)   Allowing an animal to run at-large as defined in the provisions of
this section, shall also constitute a misdemeanor. Notwithstanding any other
provision, any animal not having a visible tag and running at-large may be
deemed a stray.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.14) (Ord. 24, passed 11-16-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DISTURBANCE OF PEACE BY ANIMALS.
   The owner of an animal shall not allow such animal to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood, through barking or any other manner. Upon filing a
complaint with the Finance Officer or Animal Control Officer, and notification
given to owner by such officer, the owner shall abate such nuisance.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.15) (Ord. 8, passed 9-18-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
HUNTING, TRAPPING, AND POISON
§ 91.25 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt game in the town.
   (B)   GAME means any wild bird or animal hunted for sport or for use as
food. HUNT means to pursue game while in possession of a firearm or weapon for
sport, food, or to kill.
   (C)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers or animal
control officers in the discharge of their official duties.
(2008 Code, § 10.2.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 POISON.
   Unless recommended by a licensed veterinarian, it shall be unlawful for any
person to:
   (A)   Willfully administer or cause to be administered, poison of any sort
whatsoever to any animal, that is the property of another with the intent to
injure or destroy such animal; or
   (B)   Willfully place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to any such animal.
(2008 Code, § 10.2.2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person, without permission of an authorized representative of the town,
shall set, allow to be set, or use any trap for the purpose of catching any
animal, which trap could injure or kill any animal, except rodent traps in the
interior of a building, and except by persons employed by or agents of a
governmental authority for purposes of the town’s health and welfare.
(2008 Code, § 10.2.3) Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES
§ 91.40 RABID ANIMALS.
   No person shall knowingly keep any animal infected with rabies or any animal
that has been bitten by an animal that has been infected with rabies.
(2008 Code, § 10.3.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 REPORTING.
   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the town is infected with
rabies shall report said animal to an authorized representative of the town or
local law enforcement, describing the animal and giving the name and address of
the owner if known.
(2008 Code, § 10.3.2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any time an authorized representative of the town or any law
enforcement officer suspects an animal within the town is infected with rabies,
the town may require it to be impounded for observation as hereinafter
provided. When any owner of an animal has been notified that the animal has
bitten or attacked any person, the owner must within 24 hours place the animal
under the care and observation of a licensed veterinarian. The period of
observation shall be a period of not less than ten days, except in those cases
when an animal has bitten or attacked while on the premises of the owner and
the owner has a current rabies vaccination for the animal. An authorized
representative of the town or any law enforcement officer, may, if he or she
feels the facilities are adequate and if the owner is a responsible person,
quarantine the animal on the owner’s premises. In this case, the owner must
sign a statement and understand the responsibility and assume the liability
that is involved with the quarantine of an animal that has bitten. The
quarantined animal must at all times be available for inspection during the
quarantine.
   (B)   At the end of the ten-day observation period, the animal shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian and, if cleared, may be reclaimed by the
owner and the owner must pay the expenses incurred from the incident thereto.
   (C)   Any animal impounded or placed for observation, showing active signs
of rabies, suspected of having rabies, or known to have exposed to rabies,
shall be confined under competent observation for such time as may be deemed
necessary to determine a diagnosis in such a manner that the head is not
damaged and can be submitted for a rabies examination to a laboratory.
(2008 Code, § 10.3.3)
§ 91.43 DESTRUCTION.
   Any animal reasonably believed to have rabies, and if, under the
circumstances, it is not reasonable to impound or to attempt to seize that
animal for the purpose of further observation, a law enforcement officer may
destroy the animal. The owner shall pay any expense incident to the
impoundment, destruction, or diagnosis of rabid animals thereof. Neither the
town nor any person authorized by this section shall be liable for the
destruction of any animal when done under circumstances as set forth in this
section.
(2008 Code, § 10.3.4)
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 91.55 DEFINED.
   VICIOUS ANIMALS are defined as any animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches in an apparent attitude of attack or bites, inflicts injury,
assaults, or otherwise attacks a person or other animal whether on public or
private property, provided that the animal has not been provoked to do so by
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.1)
§ 91.56 DECLARED.
   An animal may be declared to be vicious by the President of the Board of
Trustees, any law enforcement officer, or the attending physician of any victim
of an animal bite or scratch.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.2)
§ 91.57 EXEMPTION.
   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is sustained to
any person or animal who is committing a willful trespass or other tort upon
premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.3)
§ 91.58 NOTIFICATION.
   When an animal is declared to be vicious as provided for in this subchapter,
the town will notify the owner or keeper in writing via a mailing by certified
mail.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.4)
§ 91.59 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Following such notice by certified mail, the owner or keeper of such
identified vicious animal will have ten days from date of mailed notice to no
longer harbor, keep, or possess within the corporate limits of the town any
fierce, dangerous, or vicious animal.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the conditions outlined in this subchapter are not complied with, any law
enforcement officer may impound or to attempt to seize that animal for the
purpose of destroying the animal. The owner shall pay any expense incident to
the impoundment and destruction of vicious animals. Neither the town nor any
person authorized by this section shall be liable for the destruction of any
animal when done under circumstances as set forth in this section.
(2008 Code, § 10.4.6)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If convicted, upon failure to abate such nuisance in §
91.12, said owner may be fined a sum of $50 by the town for the first
violation. If a second violation occurs within a 12-month period, said owner
may be fined a sum of $75. If a third violation occurs within a 12-month
period, said owner may be fined a sum of $100.
(2008 Code, § 10.1.15) (Ord. 8, passed 9-18-2010)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Generally
   
92.01   Authority
   
92.02   Complaints
   
92.03   Prohibited
   
92.04   Controlled burns and bonfires
Recreational Fires
   
92.15   Open fire locations
   
92.16   Size
   
92.17   Suppression
   
92.18   Prohibited materials
   
92.19   Permission
   
92.20   Supervision
Flammable and Explosive Materials
   
92.30   Explosive material storage
   
92.31   Original packaging
   
92.32   Handling
   
92.33   Motor fuel storage
   
92.34   Kerosene and similar oil; storage
Buildings
   
92.45   Fire safety zone
   
92.46   Fire safety zone requirements
   
92.47   Fire safety zone building regulations
   
92.48   Damaged buildings
   
92.49   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 151
GENERALLY
§ 92.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board President, Fire Chief, or their designee, may prohibit any
and all bonfires, active portable fire pits, recreational, or cooking fires
when atmospheric conditions or local conditions make such fires hazardous.
   (B)   Burning may also be subject to the Codified Laws or Administrative
Rules of the state, and the resolutions and/or regulations of the county.
(2008 Code, § 9.5.1)
§ 92.02 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints received by the town or any department or official thereof
regarding smoke or ash residue infringing on adjacent properties will require
such fires be immediately extinguished or be subject to the general penalty of
this code.
(2008 Code, § 9.5.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall utilize fires for the purpose of clearing land or
during construction or demolition of a building(s) without a permit issued by
the Board of Trustees in accordance with the regulations herein.
   (B)   No person shall maintain or operate a burn barrel within the corporate
limits of the town. Incinerators constructed in accordance with the Uniform
Fire Code may be operated upon receipt of a permit from the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 9.5.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 CONTROLLED BURNS AND BONFIRES.
   (A)   Controlled burns and bonfires are not allowed within the town limits.
If such controlled burn is deemed a necessity, the property owner must receive
permission from the Board of Trustees and it must be done under the control of
the Fire Department.
   (B)   Yard waste, tree limbs, and compost are not to be burned and may be
taken to the town landfill along with types of construction debris.
(2008 Code, § 9.2.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
RECREATIONAL FIRES
§ 92.15 OPEN FIRE LOCATIONS.
   No recreational fire or portable fire pit shall be closer than 25 feet from
any structure, trees, shrubs, bushes, fence, or any other combustible material.
The location shall be no closer than 15 feet from any adjoining property line.
The distance may be reduced for a special event with prior approval of the
Board of Trustees. The fire pit shall be surrounded on the outside, above
ground, by a non-combustible material such as, but not limited to, concrete
block or rock. Active portable fire pits must be located upon a non-combustible
surface (dirt without vegetation, stone, gravel, concrete, brick, and the like)
with an area twice the diameter of the portable fire pit.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 SIZE.
   (A)   Recreational fires shall be in a below ground fire pit with a minimum
depth of ten inches and a maximum diameter of three feet. The fire may not
extend more than two feet above the fire pit.
   (B)   Portable fire pits shall not exceed three feet in diameter and the
fire may not extend more than two feet above the fire ring.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.2)
§ 92.17 SUPPRESSION.
   (A)   An adequate fire suppression source sufficient to extinguish or
control all fires permitted herein if it threatens the safety of the event must
be immediately available.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguishers, garden hoses connected to a water supply,
shovels, or other like equipment shall be within ten feet.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.3)
§ 92.18 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall burn hay, straw, dirt, filth, manure, garbage,
sweepings, leaves, ashes, paper, rubbish, or material of any kind.
   (B)   No person shall singularly set fire to any combustible matter or make
any fire not in accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 PERMISSION.
   It is the responsibility of the renter/lessee of any rented or leased
property to provide written documentation from the property owner, giving
permission to have a recreational fire on that property.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.5)
§ 92.20 SUPERVISION.
   All recreational fires and active portable fire pits shall be attended at
all times by at least one responsible person age 16 or older from the ignition
of the fire until the fire is completely extinguished. In addition, an adult
owner/occupant must be present on the premises.
(2008 Code, § 9.1.6)
FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS
§ 92.30 EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL STORAGE.
   No person shall keep in the town any gun powder, blasting powder, giant
powder, or other similar explosive matter in any quantity exceeding 50 pounds.
(2008 Code, § 9.3.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.31 ORIGINAL PACKAGING.
   All substances mentioned in §
92.30 of this subchapter shall be kept in the manufacturer’s original container
or in tin, zinc, or iron cans securely closed, and in all cases shall be
properly labeled with the name of the substance therein contained, and shall be
kept removed from fire, lighted lamps, candles, gas, flames, electric lights,
and other flames.
(2008 Code, § 9.3.2)
§ 92.32 HANDLING.
   No person shall handle any of the explosives mentioned in this subchapter
except in cans designated in §
92.31 of this subchapter.
(2008 Code, § 9.3.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.33 MOTOR FUEL STORAGE.
   No person shall keep in excess of two, five-gallon containers or ten gallons
of gasoline, unless the same is kept in a metallic container separate and at
safe distance from any building, except that buildings, tanks, and other
equipment for the storage of gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, and other petroleum
products may be created, and such petroleum products may be stored within the
town upon application for permit to construct such buildings being filed within
30 days prior to the date set for the construction of such buildings, and
provided the same shall meet with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 9.3.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.34 KEROSENE AND SIMILAR OIL; STORAGE.
   No person shall keep any kerosene, coal oil, machine oil, linseed oil, or
any other flammable oil or oil substance without having the same securely
stored in some building, and such building locked except when the same is
necessarily open for business.
(2008 Code, § 9.3.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDINGS
§ 92.45 FIRE SAFETY ZONE.
   That part of the town lying within the south half (S 1/2) of Blocks Two and
Three, north half (N 1/2) of Blocks Four and Five all within the original town
addition, is hereby declared and ordained to be the fire safety zone.
(2008 Code, § 9.4.1)
§ 92.46 FIRE SAFETY ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall erect or place upon any lot or part of lot any building or
part thereof not in conformance with the Fire Zone Building Code.
(2008 Code, § 9.4.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.47 FIRE SAFETY ZONE BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The outer solid walls must be made of stone or brick at least eight
inches thick or veneered with brick or stone at least four inches or wood
framed and sheathed buildings are hereby permitted provided the walls are
entirely covered with iron and roofed in accordance with the provisions herein.
   (B)   All buildings shall be roofed with slate, tin, zinc, copper, iron, or
other fireproof roofing.
   (C)   All such buildings so erected shall be constructed under the
supervision of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the erection within said fire limit of any building the outer walls of which
are composed of wood, but such building shall not be more than ten feet square
nor more than eight feet high, and shall not be attached to or within ten feet
of any other wooden structure nor stand within 50 feet of Main Street.
(2008 Code, § 9.4.3)
§ 92.48 DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   No building that is damaged 50% of its value (such damages to be ascertained
by the Board of Trustees), by fire or otherwise, shall be built or repaired
unless the outer walls and roof shall be entirely composed of incombustible
material as hereinbefore specified; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be constructed as prohibiting the erection of buildings.
(2008 Code, § 9.4.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.49 EXEMPTIONS.
   Buildings not meeting the Fire Safety Zone Building Code may be constructed
within the fire zone, provided they are approved by a two-thirds majority vote
of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 9.4.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Prohibited
   
93.03   Abatement
   
93.04   Remedies and sanctions not exclusive
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Includes any and all definitions in this subchapter which name or
deal with activities, conditions, or presence which may commonly be referred to
as a nuisance.
(2008 Code, § 7.2.1)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITED.
   No person shall create, commit, maintain, or permit as such, any nuisance as
defined herein within the town. It is declared that one or more of the
following conditions either alone or in combination with others, which at the
same time affects an entire community or neighborhood, or a considerable number
of persons, although the extent of annoyance or damage inflicted upon the
individuals may be unequal, constitutes a public nuisance.
(2008 Code, § 7.2.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT.
   Nuisance(s) will be identified as a nuisance by a majority of members at any
Board of Trustees meeting unless the nuisance requires immediate emergency
action, then a consensus of three or more Board of Trustees members is
sufficient.
   (A)   A notice of nuisance will be sent to offending property owner(s).
      (1)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the last known
address of the property owner or notice will be given by personal service.
      (2)   Whenever the owner or agent is not known or cannot be found or his
or her last known post office address is unknown, a copy of such notice will be
posted on the premises where the nuisance exists. After the notice has been
posted on the premises for 14 consecutive days, proper notice of the nuisance
will have been given to the property owner.
   (B)   The offending property owner has 30 days to voluntarily abate, fix, or
remove the nuisance at the owner’s expense upon notice. Nuisances that create
an immediate emergency or imminent threat to the town must be voluntarily
abated within 24 hours of notice.
      (1)   If the property owner fails to abate, fix, or remove the nuisance
within 30 days after receiving notice, the town can pursue any legal process or
remedy allowed by the laws of the state, including a civil action against the
property owner, resident, or tenant. Also, the town may enter the property
after 30 days notice to clean up, abate, or remove the nuisance and assess the
property for the cost to clean up, abate, or remove the nuisance by special
assessment against the property or lot as authorized by SDCL § 21-10-6.
      (2)   If the offending nuisance is so dangerous as to create an immediate
emergency, the offending nuisance property owner or tenant will be given 24
hours to abate the nuisance before the town can abate the nuisance. Three or
more Board of Trustees members can identify such an emergency nuisance. An
emergency nuisance is a nuisance that is so dangerous that it substantially
endangers the community and must be immediately abated or removed to prevent
imminent harm to the community.
(2008 Code, § 7.2.3)
§ 93.04 REMEDIES AND SANCTIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies and sanctions set forth in this chapter shall not be construed
so as to exclude any other remedies or sanctions, either criminal or civil,
elsewhere provided in this code or by state law.
(2008 Code, § 7.2.4)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Street Specifications
   
94.001   Street grades
   
94.002   Street cross slopes
   
94.003   Street widths
   
94.004   Improvements
   
94.005   Curb and gutter
   
94.006   Street names
   
94.007   Modifications
   
94.008   General specifications
Street and Road Obstructions
   
94.020   Objects in street
   
94.021   Buildings
   
94.022   Eave pipes
   
94.023   Removal
   
94.024   Clearing
   
94.025   Exceptions
Excavation in Public Rights-of-Way
   
94.035   Generally
   
94.036   Sewers, vaults, and cellars
   
94.037   Installation of pipes
   
94.038   Excavation near streets
   
94.039   Modifications
   
94.040   Approval
Signs and Stands
   
94.050   Signs and streets
   
94.051   Selling stands
Snow Removal
   
94.065   Implementation
   
94.066   Plow routes
   
94.067   Parking
   
94.068   Public roadways
Alleys, Driveways, and Easements
   
94.080   Alleys
   
94.081   Easements
   
94.082   Driveways
   
94.083   Culverts
   
94.084   Modifications
Public Gatherings, Harassment, and Interference
   
94.095   Performances
   
94.096   Crowds
   
94.097   Harassment
   
94.098   Hindering
Vegetation
   
94.110   Injuring
   
94.111   Trimming
   
94.112   Removal
Street, Water, and Sewer Expansion
   
94.125   Developer’s responsibilities
   
94.126   Town’s responsibilities
Sidewalks
   
94.140   Sidewalk permits
   
94.141   Sidewalk specifications
   
94.142   Sidewalk construction
   
94.143   Procedure for enhancement
   
94.144   Further proceedings
   
94.145   Payment
   
94.146   Obstruction
   
94.147   Snow removal
STREET SPECIFICATIONS
§ 94.001 STREET GRADES.
   (A)   Maximum street grade shall be 10%.
   (B)   Minimum street grade shall be 1% unless curb and gutter is present,
then it shall be 0.3%.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.1)
§ 94.002 STREET CROSS SLOPES.
   Minimum cross slopes on roads shall be 1%.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.2)
§ 94.003 STREET WIDTHS.
   (A)   The minimum street width shall accommodate a 26-foot driving surface.
If the road is paved, the minimum width of the pavement shall be 18 feet.
   (B)   If a road is completed with curb and gutter and asphalt or concrete
pavement, the road shall be a minimum of 54 feet on Main Street between Depot
Street and 2nd Street and all other streets should be 41 feet in width as
measured 20-1/2 feet from the centerline in opposite directions.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.3)
§ 94.004 IMPROVEMENTS.
   All improvements within the road right-of-way must be approved by the Board
of Trustees. The Board of Trustees, Town Engineer or representative will
determine if the construction of the improvement will have any adverse effects
to the existing street surfacing, sewer system, water system, and storm water
drainage pattern of the adjacent area.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.4)
§ 94.005 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   The curb and gutter shall be not less than six inches in height, 30
inches in width, and shall be of Portland cement concrete.
   (B)   Backfill shall be higher than the curb and shall slope toward the curb
in order to ensure that surface water drains into the storm drainage system
that is established.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.5)
§ 94.006 STREET NAMES.
   All streets within the corporate limits of the town shall be named as
provided herein.
   (A)   Depot Street on the original plat of the town, together with the
extension of such street, shall continue to be known as Depot Street; all
streets running north and south, east of Depot Street, shall be named
throughout their extensions within the corporate limits in successive order
eastward from Depot Street as follows: First Street, Second Street, Third
Street, Fourth Street, Fifth Street, Sixth Street, and Seventh Street.
   (B)   Main Street on the original plat of the town, together with the
extension of such street, shall continue to be known as Main Street; and the
streets south of Main Street running east and west, in successive order south,
shall be named throughout their extension with the corporate limits as follows:
Ash Street, Elm Street, Drake Street, Clarke Street, and South Dakota State
Highway 42; and the streets running north of Main Street, running east and
west, in successive order north shall be named throughout their extension
within the corporate limits as follows: Maple Street and Poplar Street.
   (C)   All streets and their extensions, where intercepted by tracts of land
not laid out into streets, shall bear the same name as though such street were
continuous.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.6)
§ 94.007 MODIFICATIONS.
   Changes to any of the above may be approved by the Board of Trustees for
special circumstances.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.7)
§ 94.008 GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall have the ability to maintain any storm water drainage
system that exists within the road right-of-way.
   (B)   Cross drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural water flow,
and shall be sufficient in length to permit full width roadways and required
slopes.
(2008 Code, § 4.1.8)
STREET AND ROAD OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.020 OBJECTS IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall place, leave, or keep on any street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or other public grounds in the town any motor vehicle, wagon, cart,
sleigh, unlicensed vehicle, or other vehicle, except when the same shall be in
actual use. Nor shall any person place, leave, or keep on any street, road,
alley, sidewalk, or other public ground in the town any other article,
substance, or material which may obstruct the free use of such street, road,
alley, sidewalk, or other public ground except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The President of the Board of Trustees is authorized to grant written
permission for time therein limited and in no case to exceed three consecutive
months to any person or place and keep building materials in any street
adjacent to the lot whereon such material is about to be used in the
construction or repair of any building or other improvement, but such permit
shall not authorize the obstruction with any such material or otherwise of more
than one-third in width of the sidewalk adjacent to such road, nor shall such
material be so placed or kept as to obstruct the free flow of water in the
gutters of such street.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.021 BUILDINGS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any building in such a position that the
same shall stand in whole or in part upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public grounds in the town, or so constructed that any part of such building
proper shall project into or cover such street, alley, sidewalk, or windows,
bulks, cornices, and other necessary projections above the first story may
extend over the adjoining street, alley, or sidewalk not exceeding 18 inches,
and no person shall construct any basement or cellar stairway extending into
any street, alley, or sidewalk more than three and one-half feet; nor shall any
person erect in any street, alley, or sidewalk any flight of stairs leading to
the second or any higher story of any building without the written permission
of the Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.022 EAVE PIPES.
   No person shall, in any street or alley of the town, place or maintain any
pipe leading from the eaves of any building in such a position that the water
discharge thereby may flow onto or over any sidewalk in any street or alley in
the town.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.023 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever any article, substance, or material is found lying or
remaining upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground in the town,
in violation of the foregoing section, it shall be the duty of the Board of
Trustees, or its designee, forthwith to notify or require, by written notice,
the person who placed or left such article, substance, or material upon such
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground or who may be the owner or
having control of such article, substance, or material upon such street, alley,
or sidewalk to immediately remove such things.
   (B)   If said person shall neglect or fail to remove the same within a
reasonable time after such written notice, it shall be the duty of the Board of
Trustees to remove the same, or cause it to be removed from such street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public ground to some convenient or suitable place in the
town at the expense of such person or persons to be recovered in an action.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.024 CLEARING.
   (A)   Any person to whom a permit may be granted in accordance with this
subchapter to keep any material in any street or alley shall cause all such
material and all rubbish resulting therefrom to be removed from such street,
alley, or sidewalk before the expiration of the time limited in such permit.
   (B)   Provided, that such time may for good cause be extended by the
President of the Board of Trustees by endorsing such extension on the original
permit.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.5)
§ 94.025 EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be lawful, notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained to the
contrary, for any person to hang, place or set out in a safe manner, wares or
merchandise on or over the sidewalk in front of and not further than three feet
from the building occupied by himself or herself or his or her employer; it
shall also be lawful for any person to place and leave for a period not
exceeding two hours or three feet of the outer edge of the sidewalk adjacent to
the building occupied by him or her, merchandise which he or she shall be in
the act of receiving, but that this section shall not apply to any sidewalk
less than two feet in width.
(2008 Code, § 4.2.6)
EXCAVATION IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 94.035 GENERALLY.
   No person shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk, drain
or sewer, or any part thereof, or dig any hole, ditch, or drain in any street,
alley, sidewalk, crossing, or other public ground in the town, or remove any of
the gravel, sand, or soil from any street or alley without written authority
from the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.036 SEWERS, VAULTS, AND CELLARS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any vault, cellar, cistern, or well
in any of the streets, alleys, or other public grounds of the town without
first obtaining express written permission from the Board of Trustees, signed
by the President of the Board of Trustees and countersigned by the Finance
Officer.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.037 INSTALLATION OF PIPES.
   Whenever permission shall have been granted to any person to lay any drain,
sewer, gas, or water pipe in any street or alley in the town, he or she shall
cause the work to be done in the manner directed or authorized by the Board of
Trustees, and shall, within the time limited in such permit, restore the
surface of such street or alley to its former condition. All installation must
be done be a company certified and license in such installations.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.3)
§ 94.038 EXCAVATION NEAR STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
excavation on any lot or parcel of land adjacent to any street, alley, or
traveled path or roadway in the town unless the same be securely guarded by a
railing at least three feet high and so tight that no child can fall through
it, and to prevent injury to any person passing along such street, alley, or
traveled path or roadway.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.039 MODIFICATIONS.
   Changes to any of the sections in this subchapter may be approved by the
Board of Trustees for special circumstances.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.5)
§ 94.040 APPROVAL.
   All improvements within the road right-of-way must be approved by the Board
of Trustees. The Board of Trustees, Town Engineer, or other authorized
representative will determine if the construction of the improvement will have
any adverse effects to the existing street surfacing, sewer system, water
system, and storm water drainage pattern of the adjacent area.
(2008 Code, § 4.3.6)
SIGNS AND STANDS
§ 94.050 SIGNS AND STREETS.
   No owner or occupant of any store or other building shall fix, put up or
erect, or suffer to remain fixed, put up, hung, or erected any sign, show bill,
show case, canvas, or any other thing projecting from any such building or
store, or hang over the sidewalk more than three feet; but that this section
shall not be construed to forbid any person from maintaining an awning in front
of his or her place of business which is at least seven feet over the sidewalk.
Nor shall any person set a post or other obstruction in any street or alley in
the town for the purpose of fastening thereto any awning or sign, or for any
other purpose. Nor shall any person erect, construct, or maintain any wooden
awning or shed in or over any street, alley, or sidewalk in the town.
(2008 Code, § 4.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.051 SELLING STANDS.
   No person shall set up or keep in any street, alley, or other public ground
in the town any stand, wagon, or other contrivance for the purpose of selling
therefrom or exposing for sale any meat, provisions, refreshments, or any
wares, goods, or merchandise, or to cry out or expose for sale any property
whatever without having first obtained the permission of the Board of Trustees
containing a particular description of the place or places where such business
may be carried on.
(2008 Code, § 4.4.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 94.065 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The town will start the removal of snow after there is an accumulation of
two or more inches with the weather permitting or at other times as directed by
the Board of Trustees. During blizzard periods, only emergencies that are a
danger to human life will be considered for snow removal.
(2008 Code, § 4.5.1)
§ 94.066 PLOW ROUTES.
   Plow route will be set by current Board of Trustees policy.
(2008 Code, § 4.5.2) (Ord. 17, passed 5-6-2011)
§ 94.067 PARKING.
   Vehicles and equipment must be removed prior to plowing. If they are not
removed, vehicles may be ticketed and towed at the owner’s expense.
(2008 Code, § 4.5.3)
§ 94.068 PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   All snow removal from private property onto public roads or rights-of-way
shall be prohibited.
(2008 Code, § 4.5.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS, AND EASEMENTS
§ 94.080 ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall be a minimum of 16 feet in width.
(2008 Code, § 4.6.1)
§ 94.081 EASEMENTS.
   Utility easements will be a minimum of 16 feet in width.
(2008 Code, § 4.6.2)
§ 94.082 DRIVEWAYS.
   Maximum driveway grades shall be 10%.
(2008 Code, § 4.6.3)
§ 94.083 CULVERTS.
   (A)   The town shall furnish one, 12-foot by 18-inch culvert for each
property to install within the driveway. Larger culverts may be installed and
purchased from the town. In the case of larger culverts, the property owner
shall pay the cost difference to the town who shall then provide a culvert as
requested.
   (B)   The Town Board reserves the right to limit the diameter and/or size of
culverts placed within the town. The Board further reserves the right to vary
or modify the requirements of this section by resolution.
(2008 Code, § 4.6.4)
§ 94.084 MODIFICATIONS.
   Changes to any of the sections in this subchapter may be approved by the
Board of Trustees for special circumstances.
(2008 Code, § 4.6.5)
PUBLIC GATHERINGS, HARASSMENT, AND INTERFERENCE
§ 94.095 PERFORMANCES.
   No person shall in any street, alley, or other public ground in the town,
exhibit any show or performance of any kind whatever, or cause the gathering of
any crowd of people in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground, nor
call or cause to be called any public meeting in any street, alley, or other
public ground, nor address any crowd of people in any of such places, without
the written permission of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 4.7.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.096 CROWDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to get together in crowds or groups in
any street, alley, or on any sidewalk in the town in such manner as to obstruct
free passage thereon, or to annoy other persons passing along the same, and the
law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to disperse any crowd or group, or
to cause the removal of any person violating any of the provisions of this
section, and to summarily arrest any person in case of refusal or failure of
such person to obey any reasonable direction given by such officer for the
purpose of clearing the way or preventing annoyance to passers-by on any such
street, alley, or sidewalk.
(2008 Code, § 4.7.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.097 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall, upon any street, alley, or sidewalk in the town, or at the
entrance of any building on any such street, alley, or sidewalk, wrongfully
hinder, impede, or molest any passer-by, or use any rude, obscene, vulgar,
indecent, or threatening language, to any passer-by, or by any indecent, act,
gesture, or noise, molest, annoy, or insult or put in fear any person passing
or attempting to pass on such street, alley, or sidewalk or through the
entrance of such building.
(2008 Code, § 4.7.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.098 HINDERING.
   No person shall hinder or obstruct a legally authorized agent or any
employee of the town in lawfully making any improvement or doing any work on
any street, alley, or any other public ground in the town.
(2008 Code, § 4.7.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
VEGETATION
§ 94.110 INJURING.
   No person shall without the written permission of the Board of Trustees,
signed and countersigned by the President of the Board of Trustees and the
Finance Officer, destroy, mutilate, cut, deface, or otherwise injure any tree,
shrub, plant, building, fence, gate, or any other protection or guards of such
tree, shrub, plant upon any street, alley, or other public ground in the town,
nor shall any person interfere with the surface of any street, alley, or other
public ground in the town without the written permission of the President of
the Board of Trustees. Provided, that this section shall not be construed to
forbid the owner of any lot or parcel of land to remove or trim shrubbery or
trees upon or protruding upon their property.
(2008 Code, § 4.8.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.111 TRIMMING.
   The occupant of any lot or parcel of land in the town, adjacent to any
street, or alley or the owner of said lot or land, shall keep all trees
standing on such premises or between the same and the center of the street
adjoining the same so trimmed that no bough or branch thereof shall hang lower
than ten feet above the surface of the street, alley, or any sidewalk thereof.
(2008 Code, § 4.8.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.112 REMOVAL.
   Upon approval of the Board of Trustees, the removal of a dead, diseased, or
dangerous tree that is located within a public right-of-way will be cost-shared
by 50% homeowner and 50% municipality. This does not apply to trees that are
being removed for cosmetic reasons.
(2008 Code, § 4.8.3)
STREET, WATER, AND SEWER EXPANSION
§ 94.125 DEVELOPER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The developer is responsible for:
   (A)   Clearing the right-of-way of all trees and other objectionable
material;
   (B)   Construction of the street sub-grade by properly shaping, rolling, and
uniformly compacting appropriate sub-base materials to match cross sections and
grades;
   (C)   Installation and compaction of eight inches of gravel from an approved
pit or one that meets South Dakota Department of Transportation Section 882 for
aggregates for granular bases and surfacing using Table 1 “Aggregate Base
Course” as amended;
   (D)   Preparing or cause to be prepared a drainage map. Said map shall be
filed with the Finance Officer;
   (E)   Construct the drainage prior to construction of any buildings; and
   (F)   Add curb and gutter, radius, alley approaches, and drainage swales to
streets as lots are developed, if deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees. If
curb and gutter is not required, then culverts, drainages, and driveways shall
adhere to the drainage map.
(2008 Code, § 4.9.1)
§ 94.126 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The town is responsible for:
   (A)   Installation of the water main, a minimum of one block at a time with
a compacted trench and a fire hydrant. Water lines shall be laid a minimum of
ten feet away from the sewer line as measured on a horizontal plane;
   (B)   Installation of the sewer main, a minimum of one block at a time with
a compacted trench and a manhole. Sewer shall be laid down the center of the
street or alley;
   (C)   Provide maintenance and snow removal of the developed street; and
   (D)   Provide for construction of an asphalt mat once all the proposed lots
have been developed, sewer and water hook-ups are completed, and the curb and
gutter (if required) has been installed.
(2008 Code, § 4.9.2)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.140 SIDEWALK PERMITS.
   Before any sidewalk is constructed within the town by any contractor or
person for the owner or owners of abutting property, said contractor or person
must first secure a permit from the Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.141 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Board or Finance Officer has the power to hold a permit until
they have clarified any questions on any grades of sidewalks to be constructed.
They may have a committee or engineer confirm and approve the construction
location and proposed grading before a permit is issued.
   (B)   The construction of all sidewalks and curbing, whether to be done by
direct contract with the town or in contract with the abutting property owners,
shall be done by standards set herein. The Board of Trustees shall have the
full power to condemn work and material not in accordance with the requirements
of said specifications.
   (C)   Anyone in the town making new installations of sidewalks or improving
or replacing existing sidewalks shall install or construct at the crosswalk in
either the business or residential areas, ramps so as to make the transition
from street to sidewalk easily negotiable for persons in wheelchairs. All such
ramps shall be constructed and installed in accordance with plans and
specifications published by the State Department of Transportation.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.2)
§ 94.142 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks built hereafter shall be of Portland cement concrete
construction to a depth of four inches and a width of four feet, six inches,
except those lying within the business district, which shall be ten feet in
width. All sidewalks except those in the business district on Main Street shall
be placed six inches to one foot from the property line towards the street.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.3)
§ 94.143 PROCEDURE FOR ENHANCEMENT.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees shall deem it necessary to construct or
repair any sidewalk, it shall require the Finance Officer to give notice in
writing to all owners, resident and non-resident, and to the occupants of any
lot or lots or parcels of land adjoining such sidewalk to construct or repair
the same at his or her their own proper expense and charge within 30 days from
the service of said notice. When repairs only are necessary and the owner or
owners of the lot or parcels of land adjoining said sidewalk to be repaired are
non-residents, and the said lots or parcels of land are unoccupied, the Town
Board may make such needed repair and any reasonable necessary expense for
making the same shall be assessed on the lot, lots or parcels of land adjoining
and assessed and collected as provided in state statutes.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.4)
§ 94.144 FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   If such work is not done and the sidewalks not built or repaired in the
manner and within the time prescribed, the Board of Trustees may order the same
to be done by the town at the expense of the lot, lots, and parcels of land
adjoining said sidewalks and the said expense shall be assessed upon such lots
and parcels of land so chargeable by the Board and said assessment is so made
and returned, if approved by the Board, shall become a lien upon said lots and
parcels of land, as in the case of town, county, and states taxes.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.5)
§ 94.145 PAYMENT.
   If the said assessment is not paid to the Finance Officer on or before
August 20 in any year, the town shall cause a statement of the same to be
transmitted with the town taxes levied for the year to the County Auditor on or
before September 1 in each year; and said Auditor shall insert the same with
the other taxes in the duplicate statement of taxes annually transmitted by him
or her to the County Treasurer for collection and payment thereon enforced
within and in like manner as town, county, and state taxes are collected and
payment thereon enforced.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.6)
§ 94.146 OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall place, push, draw, or back any motor vehicle, wagon, cart,
or other vehicle upon any sidewalk in the town, or use, drive, ride, or leave
the vehicle upon the sidewalk unless it is in crossing the same to go into an
alley or upon a lot where no other means of access is provided.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.147 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   The occupant of any premises in the town adjacent to any sidewalk in
the business district on Main Street between Depot Street and 2nd Street, or
the owner of such premises if the same are unoccupied, shall within 15 hours
after the fall of snow, remove the snow from the said sidewalk on Main Street,
as adjoins the said premises.
   (B)   If such work is not done, the Board of Trustees may come and remove
the snow at an expense in an amount determined by the Board of Trustees per
hour for the work. Any costs incurred will be billed back to the property
owner.
(2008 Code, § 4.10.8)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
112.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Temporary Sales
   
110.01   Peddlers and hawkers
   
110.02   Other licenses and permits
Video Lottery
   
110.15   Annual additional license fee for video lottery machines on licensed
premises
TEMPORARY SALES
§ 110.01 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   All licenses, except those to peddlers or hawkers, shall specify the
particular place in the town where the acts or business therein mentioned are
licensed to be done or carried on, which shall be confined to the place so
designated unless otherwise permitted by the President of the Board of
Trustees, in writing, endorsed on said license, and every license except to
sell intoxicating liquors shall terminate on the first Tuesday in May after the
granting thereof, unless otherwise therein provided in such license.
(2008 Code, § 5.1.1)
§ 110.02 OTHER LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Board of Trustees reserves the right to require permits and/or licenses
for activities, events, or other similar item the Board of Trustees deems
necessary. Such permits shall be completed on forms supplied by the Finance
Officer and submitted to same for consideration at an official meeting of the
Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 5.1.2)
VIDEO LOTTERY
§ 110.15 ANNUAL ADDITIONAL LICENSE FEE FOR VIDEO LOTTERY MACHINES ON LICENSED
PREMISES.
   Any person who is licensed pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (6), (11), (12),
(13) or (16), and who is issued a video lottery establishment license pursuant
to SDCL § 42-7A-41, must pay an additional annual fee for locating video
lottery machines on the licensed premises. The fee is established at $50 for
each video lottery machine and the fee shall be paid at the same time and in
the same manner as the fees paid on licenses issued pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2.
All fees received under this section shall be deposited into the General Fund
of the town.
(SDCL § 35-4-103) (2008 Code, § 5.3.1)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Required license
   
111.02   Number of licenses
   
111.03   Classifications and fees
   
111.04   License approval
   
111.05   License removal
   
111.06   Possession in a public place
   
111.07   Selling hours
   
111.08   Serving liquor outside of establishment
   
111.09   Beer garden
   
111.10   Entertainment
   
111.11   Age to enter onto premises
   
111.12   Intoxicated person entering premises
   
111.13   Off-sale sales
   
111.14   On-sale sales
   
111.15   Package with broken seal
   
111.16   Consumption of alcohol at street dances
   
111.17   Town park
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in business as a distiller, wholesaler, package
dealer, a club, dining car company, a transportation company, or solicitor of
intoxicating liquor until he or she shall have procured a license covering the
class of business operation to be engaged in by him or her within the town,
except as provided by law.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued within the town not to exceed three on-sale and two
off-sale licenses. All club licenses shall be counted as on-sale licenses for
purpose of limitation of the number of licenses.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.2)
§ 111.03 CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES.
   The following classifications and fees are established for on- and off-sale
dealers in distilled spirits, wines, and malt beverages:
   (A)   The off-sale yearly license fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages,
other than malt beverage, shall be $300;
   (B)   The on-sale yearly license fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages,
other than malt beverages, shall be $500;
   (C)   The on-off sale yearly license fee for the sale of malt beverages and
South Dakota wines shall be $300; and
   (D)   The on-off sale yearly license fee for the sale of wine shall be $500.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.3) (Ord. 3, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 111.04 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application for licenses regulated by this chapter shall be submitted
to the Finance Officer. Upon receipt of a complete license application, the
Finance Officer shall place said request on the next available Board of
Trustees meeting agenda.
   (B)   If an applicant chooses to accelerate the application process via a
special meeting of the Board of Trustees, they shall make application for a
special meeting. Applications for special meetings shall be submitted with the
agreement that said applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with
the application as well as a $5 fee.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.4)
§ 111.05 LICENSE REMOVAL.
   No licenses under any class shall remove from one location to another within
the corporate limits of the town in which the license was originally issued
without permission of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.5) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 POSSESSION IN A PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall be permitted to have an unsealed original package in his or
her possession in a public place within the town. Provided, however, that this
shall not apply to an on-sale dealer who shall have unsealed packages with
proper stamps on his or her premises from which to serve his or her customers.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 SELLING HOURS.
   No licensee of any class within the town shall sell any intoxicating liquor
outside of the hours in which his or her license permits him or her to sell.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SERVING LIQUOR OUTSIDE OF ESTABLISHMENT.
   No on-sale dealer shall be permitted to serve within the town any
intoxicating liquor outside of the building for which his or her license was
issued; provided that the view through the windows of the building where said
business is carried on shall be completely unobstructed either by curtains,
advertising, window glazing, or other obstructions whatsoever, and provided
further that no liquor shall be served in any booth wherein all the occupants
are not within full view of every other occupant in the room and observable
from any and all points in said room.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.8) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 BEER GARDEN.
   (A)   A BEER GARDEN is defined for purposes of this chapter as an area
adjacent to an establishment which has been issued an on-sale beer or liquor
license where patrons of said establishment may consume alcoholic beverages
sold by the establishment in an area outside of the establishment but adjacent
thereto.
   (B)   Any on-sale liquor or beer licensee may operate a beer garden so long
as the beer garden is adjacent and connecting to the licensed establishment and
the only entry into the beer garden is from an entry way into the licensed
establishment. Any beer garden shall have a fence at least six feet high around
the beer garden constructed in such a way that no person may crawl through or
under said fence. Further, if there are any outside bands, jukeboxes, or loud
speakers in a beer garden, the same shall cease playing or operating at 1:00
a.m.
   (C)   The fence to be constructed around the beer garden as set out above,
shall, in all respects, comply with any ordinances amendatory thereto insofar
as the location of said fences in regards to the proximity of streets, alleys,
and property lines or boundaries.
   (D)   Any licensee operating a beer garden shall abide by all rules and
regulations as set out by state or local statutes involving the sale of said
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   The only alcoholic beverages to be consumed within the premises
defined as a beer garden shall be those alcoholic beverages sold by the
licensed establishment operating the beer garden.
   (F)   This chapter does not apply to those establishments which request
permission to operate a beer garden on one particular time a year.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.9)
§ 111.10 ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, renting, leasing,
operating, or managing any establishment that sells, by the drink or for
consumption on the premises, intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverages, wine
or beer in which the establishment has had a license application approved or
recommended to be approved by the governing body of the town to cause, allow,
or permit any person in or about such establishment, while in the presence of
any other person in such establishment, to fail to conceal with fully opaque
covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any patron to have physical contact with
an entertainer during the course of a performance on a licensed premise except
under the following conditions:
      (1)   The entertainer shall have invited the patron to participate in the
performance; and
      (2)   The contact that takes place does not involve any act by the patron
and the entertainer that could be characterized as a sexual act.
   (C)   Any entertainer performing in an establishment, as defined above, must
be at least 21 years of age and have proper identification.
   (D)   In addition, upon proof of violation of this chapter, any license
approved or recommended to be approved by the governing body of the town, may
be revoked or suspended in pursuant to SDCL § 35-2-10.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.10) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 AGE TO ENTER ONTO PREMISES.
   No on-sale licensee of any class within the town shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years within said licensee’s building or premises except
where said person under the age of 21 years is in the company of his or her
parent or guardian. No person shall sell or give any intoxicating liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years; nor shall any person sell or give any non-
alcoholic beer or wine to any person under the age of 18 years.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 INTOXICATED PERSON ENTERING PREMISES.
   No licensee of any class within the town shall permit any intoxicated person
to enter his or her premises or to become intoxicated thereon or therein.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 OFF-SALE SALES.
   No package or off-sale licensee within the town shall sell or allow to be
sold alcoholic beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. in
accordance with SDCL § 35-4-81.2.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.13) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 ON-SALE SALES.
   No on-sale licensee within the town shall sell, serve, or allow to be
consumed on the premises covered by the license, alcoholic beverages between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
employee, agent, or servant of an on-sale liquor establishment whose principle
business is the sale of alcoholic beverages to allow any patron or customer to
remain on the premises after the above designated closing time.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.14) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 PACKAGE WITH BROKEN SEAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession in a
public place within the town limits any intoxicating liquor, except that
contained in a sealed original package with United States government and the
state stamp tax unbroken; provided, however, that this shall not apply to an
“on-sale” dealer.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL AT STREET DANCES.
   Alcoholic beverages served at street dances within the corporate limits
shall be consumed only within the established marked or fenced boundaries. Any
and all alcoholic consumption of and disorderly conduct relating thereto
outside the established boundaries be subject to a $75 fine.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.16) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 TOWN PARK.
   Alcoholic beverages may be consumed between the hours of 10:30 a.m. and 10:
30 p.m. within the boundaries of the town park hereinafter described as Lots 1-
12 Block 1 A.C. Drake’s 2nd Addition and Lots 1-6 Block 4 A.C. Drake’s 2nd
Addition. Any and all alcoholic consumption of and disorderly conduct relating
thereto outside the established boundaries or allowed hours shall be subject to
a $75 civil fine in addition to normal criminal charges.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class II misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to the South Dakota
Codified Law, as amended.
(2008 Code, § 5.2.18)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Application for local permit/license
§ 112.01 APPLICATION FOR LOCAL PERMIT/LICENSE.
   A medical cannabis establishment desiring to operate in the town shall be
required to apply for a permit and/or license from the town. Applications for a
local permit and/or license to operate a medical cannabis establishment, as
defined by SDCL § 34-20G-1, shall not be accepted until the South Dakota
Department of Health has promulgated regulations as required by SDCL § 34-20G-
72. Any application received prior to such regulations being promulgated shall
be denied.
(Ord. XI-112, passed 8-16-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disturbances
   
130.02   Inappropriate language
   
130.03   Indecent exposure
   
130.04   Gambling
   
130.05   Fireworks
   
130.06   Fire alarms
   
130.07   Debris
§ 130.01 DISTURBANCES.
   No person shall in the town disturb the peace of the same or of any lawful
assembly of persons or of any neighborhood, or of any person or persons.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 INAPPROPRIATE LANGUAGE.
   No person shall in the town curse, swear, quarrel, or use any violent or
threatening language, or make any great noise so as to disturb the peace of any
person or neighborhood.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person in the town shall make any indecent exposure of his or her person
(2008 Code, § 7.1.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall keep any building or any other place in the town to be
used or occupied for gambling or for any game of chance for money; and no
person shall as owner, agent, or superintendent of any such place knowingly let
the same, or allow it to be used or occupied for gambling or for playing any
game of chance for money.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or section shall apply to those establishments
with video lottery, other lottery products, or charitable gambling, as
regulated by the state.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall discharge, display, shoot, or light any rocket or any other
piece of fireworks within corporate limits after 11:00 p.m. The Board of
Trustees reserves the right to waive any such part of this section or to
prohibit any and all defined activities. Such action shall take place at a
meeting of the Board of Trustees unless an emergency is declared by the
President of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall in the town knowingly or willfully create a false alarm of
fire.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, or deposit or cause to
be placed, thrown, or deposited any glass, waste paper, dirt, dead leaves,
grass, ashes, or other waste material on any of the streets, avenues, alleys,
or public grounds in the town.
(2008 Code, § 7.1.7) (Ord. 27, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Carrying concealed weapons
   
131.02   Drawing deadly weapons
   
131.03   Discharge of firearms
§ 131.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person in the town shall carry concealed upon his or her person any
firearm, sling-shot, sheath or dirk-knife, or brass knuckles, which, when used,
are likely to produce death or create great bodily harm unless so permitted by
the state or any state with reciprocity with the state.
(2008 Code, § 7.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 DRAWING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person, except an officer of the law in execution of his or her duties,
shall in the town draw a pistol, revolver, knife, or other deadly weapon upon
any other person or persons.
(2008 Code, § 7.4.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or shoot any gun, pistol, or other firearm
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right to waive any such part of
this section or to prohibit any and all defined activities. Such action shall
take place at a meeting of the Board of Trustees unless an emergency is
declared by the President of the Board of Trustees or any other legally
recognized body within the town, county, or state.
(2008 Code, § 7.4.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
      
153.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Platting
   
150.01   Vacation
   
150.02   Procedure
   
150.03   Owner’s rights
   
150.04   Recording
PLATTING
§ 150.01 VACATION.
   Any part of a plat may be vacated, provided such vacating does not abridge
or destroy any of the rights and privileges of other proprietors in said plat.
Nothing contained in this section shall authorize the closing or obstructing of
any public highways laid out according to law.
(2008 Code, § 5.4.1)
§ 150.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any such plat may be vacated by the proprietors thereof, at any time
before the sale of any lots therein, by a written instrument declaring the same
to be vacated, duly executed, acknowledged or approved, and recorded in the
same office with the plat to be vacated.
   (B)   The execution and recording of such writing shall operate to destroy
the force and effect of the recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all
public rights in the streets, commons, and public grounds, laid out or
described in such plat. In cases where any lots have been sold, the plat may be
vacated, as herein provided, by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in
the execution of the writing aforesaid.
(2008 Code, § 5.4.2)
§ 150.03 OWNER’S RIGHTS.
   When any part of a plat shall be vacated as aforesaid, the proprietors of
the lots so vacated may enclose the streets, alleys, and public grounds
adjoining said lots in equal proportions.
(2008 Code, § 5.4.3)
§ 150.04 RECORDING.
   The Board of Trustees shall approve any vacations within existing corporate
limits. Once approved, it shall be referred to the Register of Deeds office for
official filing
(2008 Code, § 5.4.4)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building permits
   
151.02   Permit to move buildings
   
151.03   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
Structural Regulations
   
151.15   Buildings, moving, and new construction
   
151.16   New construction; drainage tile
   
151.17   Nuisance buildings
   
151.18   Right of entry
   
151.19   Abatement
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 BUILDING PERMITS.
   There shall be a mandatory filing of a building permit for all new building
construction and for all additional repair, remodeling, and maintenance on
existing buildings. The building permit fee is based upon the cost of
construction. The fee and permit application must be filed with the Finance
Officer before any new or remodeling construction is to commence and must be
approved by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 8.1.1)
§ 151.02 PERMIT TO MOVE BUILDINGS.
   No person shall, without first having obtained the written permission of the
Board of Trustees, move any building on any street, alley, or other public
ground in the town. The Board of Trustees may, at its discretion, require a
cash deposit on the part of the applicant desiring to move such building of a
sum not to exceed $100 to be retained by the Board of Trustees to cover any
injury that the town may sustain to its streets, sidewalks, crossings, trees,
or other property by the moving of such building. If the repair of the damaged
street, sidewalk, crossings, trees, or other property exceeds $100, the
difference will be assessed back to the applicant.
(2008 Code, § 8.1.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 ADOPTION OF THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, in its entirety,
and all acts amendatory thereto, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the town,
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings, and structures within the town. A printed copy of such Code shall be
on file in the office of the Finance Officer.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.3) (Ord. 9, passed 9-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
STRUCTURAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.15 BUILDINGS, MOVING, AND NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any building which is moved into the town limits or constructed new
within the town limits shall have a setback of at least 25 feet from the front
property line in a residential district. In the case of corner lots, the
property shall have two 25-foot setbacks from each street right-of-way
   (B)   Property that is in a commercial area shall have a setback of zero
feet from the front and side property lines but must have adequately sized rain
gutters in place if the structure is less than eight feet from the property
line.
   (C)   Residential property must have a setback of six from the side and rear
property lines.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 NEW CONSTRUCTION; DRAINAGE TILE.
   It shall be illegal to pipe drainage tile from around the foundations of new
construction with the limits of the town to permit the flow of ground water
into the town sewer system.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 NUISANCE BUILDINGS.
   Any building or potion thereof that is determined to be an unsafe building
under the Property Maintenance Code, including any dwelling unit, guest room or
group of rooms, or the premises on which the same is located, in which there
exists any of the conditions referred to in the Property Maintenance Code to
the extent that it endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or
welfare of the public or the occupants thereof, shall be deemed and hereby are
declared to be nuisances as defined in §
93.01 of this code of ordinances adopted July 21, 2008, and all acts amendatory
thereto.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.5) (Ord. 11, passed 9-8-2010)
§ 151.18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
these ordinances, or when the town or its representative(s) inspecting on
behalf of the town, hereinafter referred to collectively at “town” has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises
a condition that is contrary to and in violation of these ordinances that makes
the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the town may enter the
building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties
imposed by this code, provided that if such building or premises be occupied
that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such
building or premises be unoccupied, the town shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the town shall
have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.6) (Ord. 12, passed 9-8-2010)
§ 151.19 ABATEMENT.
   Any building or premises, or portions thereof, that are determined to be a
nuisance under this chapter, shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
93.03 of this code of ordinances and any acts amendatory thereto.
(2008 Code, § 8.2.7)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Flood hazard areas
   
152.02   Establishment of special areas
   
152.03   Development permit
   
152.04   Compliance
   
152.05   Abrogation and restrictions
   
152.06   Interpretation
   
152.07   Disclaimer
Administration
   
152.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.21   Floodplain Administrator duties
   
152.22   Permit procedures
   
152.23   Approval or denial of permit
   
152.24   Variance procedures
Flood Damage
   
152.35   Authorization
   
152.36   Findings of fact
   
152.37   Statement of purpose
   
152.38   Methodology
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.50   General standards
   
152.51   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.52   Violation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.1)
§ 152.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL AREAS.
   Since areas of special flood hazard have not been identified, water surface
elevations have not been provided, nor has sufficient data identifying the
floodway or coastal high hazard area been provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), the community shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize data available from other federal, state, or other sources.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.2)
§ 152.03 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.3)
§ 152.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 ABROGATION AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant,
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.5)
§ 152.06 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.6)
§ 152.07 DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(2008 Code, § 11.2.7)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Finance Officer is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program regulations) pertaining
to floodplain management.
(2008 Code, § 11.3.1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for the public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed construction
or other development, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
and
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
(2008 Code, § 11.3.2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing, and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures at least
one-foot above;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood- proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
152.50 of this chapter;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain record of all such information in accordance with approved
standards.
(2008 Code, § 11.3.3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain Administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the following
relevant factors:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (D)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (E)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (F)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
   (G)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters, and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (H)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (I)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
   (J)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(2008 Code, § 11.3.4)
§ 152.24 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in this subchapter have been fully
considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(2008 Code, § 11.3.5)
FLOOD DAMAGE
§ 152.35 AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in SDCL Title 9 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses.
(2008 Code, § 11.1.1)
§ 152.36 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(2008 Code, § 11.1.2)
§ 152.37 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(2008 Code, § 11.1.3)
§ 152.38 METHODOLOGY.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(2008 Code, § 11.1.4)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.50 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(2008 Code, § 11.4.1)
§ 152.51 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with the provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development
permit requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals, including the placements of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(2008 Code, § 11.4.2)
§ 152.52 VIOLATION.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
(2008 Code, § 11.4.3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(2008 Code, § 11.4.3)
CHAPTER 153: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
153.01   Generally
   
153.02   Anchoring requirements
   
153.03   Footing or foundation requirements
   
153.04   Public water and sewer
   
153.05   Age of home
§ 153.01 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park, keep, erect, or maintain any mobile home or
manufactured home within the town except in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.02 ANCHORING REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be anchored to the ground, or a
permanent foundation, in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications. In the
absence of manufacturer’s specifications, said mobile homes or manufactured
homes shall be anchored to the ground, or a permanent foundation, according to
a plan approved by the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.2)
§ 153.03 FOOTING OR FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be installed on concrete
footing pads or on a foundation in conformance with manufacturer’s installation
specifications. In the event that concrete footing pads are used, said pads
shall be no smaller than two feet by two feet by four inches in depth. The
number of said concrete footing pads shall be appropriate to the size of the
mobile home or manufactured home. All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall
have the wheels removed and tongue removed (if possible) and each such home
shall have foundation siding/skirting enclosing the entire perimeter of the
home.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.3)
§ 153.04 PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER.
   All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be hooked up to public water
and sewer lines.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.4)
§ 153.05 AGE OF HOME.
   All mobile homes or manufactured homes shall have been constructed or
manufactured within ten years of the date of installation of said home in the
town. Mobile homes or manufactured homes constructed or manufactured more than
ten years ago may be moved into the town only with the express consent and vote
of majority of the members of the Board of Trustees.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.5)
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
154.01   Defined
   
154.02   Responsibility
   
154.03   Notification
   
154.04   Assessment of costs
   
154.05   Payment
   
154.06   Collections
§ 154.01 DEFINED.
   The following plants and weeds shall be deemed to be noxious, dangerous, and
unhealthful vegetation, to-wit: all species of sunflowers, all species of rag
weeds, all species of cockle burrs, all species of tumble weeds, all species of
thistles, dandelions, plantains, wild morning glory, black mustard, and
pigweed.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.1)
§ 154.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in possession of any premises
within the corporate limits of the town to permit any noxious, dangerous, or
unhealthful vegetation as defined in §
154.01 of this chapter hereof to grow on said premises at any time.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 NOTIFICATION.
   If any of said vegetation is found growing on any premises within the
corporate limits within the town between May 15 to September 1 of each year,
the Finance Officer shall give notice by publication in the official newspaper
of the town that unless said vegetation be destroyed within one week from the
date of publication of such notice, the town will destroy or cause the same to
be destroyed and the cost thereof will be assessed the property whereon said
vegetation shall be found growing. Said notice need not contain a specific
description of the premises where said vegetation may be growing but may be a
general notice covering all premises within the town and to all owners and
persons in possession thereof.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.3)
§ 154.04 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees or its designee to destroy or
cause to be destroyed all such vegetation found growing on any premises within
the corporate limits after one week from the publication of the notice provided
for in the preceding section, and the Finance Officer shall assess the cost of
the destruction of said vegetation upon the lots and parcels of land upon which
said vegetation is destroyed, and he or she shall make a return of said
assessment to the Board of Trustees, and the Finance Officer shall cause to be
published said assessment of the Board of Trustees, together with a notice that
said assessment will be considered by the Board of Trustees at an October
meeting in each year, at which time any person interested may appear and be
heard in the matter. Said notice shall be published once in the official
newspaper of the town at least ten days prior to said October meeting.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.4)
§ 154.05 PAYMENT.
   Within ten days after such assessment has been approved by the Board of
Trustees, said assessment shall be payable and due to said town, and if not
paid within 60 days thereafter, shall have a penalty of 10% per annum.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.5)
§ 154.06 COLLECTIONS.
   Said assessments shall be collected in the same manner as sidewalk
assessments are now collected and the premises upon which said assessments are
made may be sold for said assessments and the sale thereof shall be conducted
in the same manner and at the same times and shall be governed by the same
regulations as are provided for the sale of real property for sidewalk
assessments.
(2008 Code, § 8.3.6)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Compiled Laws
References to 2008 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA COMPILED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section Code Section
Title 9      152.35
9-1-1        10.02,
             10.04
9-13-13      10.04
9-19-1       10.04
9-19-3       10.99
9-20-13      90.02
9-38         32.01
10-45        33.02,
             33.05
10-46        33.03,
             33.05
10-52        33.01,
             33.04
21-10-1      11.01
21-10-3      11.01
21-10-6      93.03
22-6-2(2)    10.99
34-20G-1     112.01
34-20G-72    112.01
35-2-10      111.10
35-4-2       110.15
35-4-2(4)    110.15
35-4-2(6)    110.15
35-4-2(11)   110.15
35-4-2(12)   110.15
35-4-2(13)   110.15
35-4-2(16)   110.15
35-4-81.2    111.13
35-4-103     110.15
42-7A-41     110.15
             
 
REFERENCES TO 2008 CODE
2008 Code Section 2021 Code Section
2008 Code Section 2021 Code Section
2.2.1             30.01
2.2.2             30.02
2.2.3             30.03
2.3.1             31.01
2.3.2             31.02
2.3.3             31.03
2.3.4             31.04
2.3.5             31.05
2.3.6             31.06
2.3.7             31.07
2.3.8             31.08
2.3.9             31.09
2.3.10            31.10
2.4.1             31.25
2.4.2             31.26
2.5.1             31.40
2.5.2             31.41
2.5.3             31.42
2.5.4             31.43
2.6.1             32.01
2.6.2             32.02
2.6.3             32.03
2.6.4             32.04
2.6.6             32.05
2.6.7             32.06
2.6.8             32.07
2.6.10            32.08
2.7.1             33.01
2.7.2             33.02
2.7.3             33.03
2.7.4             33.04
2.7.5             33.05
3.1.1             50.01
3.1.2             50.02
3.1.3             50.03
3.1.4             50.04
3.1.5             50.05
3.1.6             50.06
3.1.7             50.07
3.1.8             50.08
3.1.9             50.09
3.1.10            50.10
3.2.1             51.01
3.2.2             51.02
3.2.3             51.03
3.2.4             51.04
3.2.5             51.05
3.2.6             51.06
3.2.7             51.07
3.2.8             51.08
3.2.9             51.09
3.2.10            51.10
3.2.11            51.11
3.3.1             52.01
3.3.2             52.02
3.3.3             52.03
3.3.4             52.04
3.3.5             52.05
3.3.6             52.06
3.3.7             52.99
3.3.8             52.07
3.3.9             52.08
3.4.1             53.01
3.4.2             53.02,
                  53.99
3.4.3             53.03
4.1.1             94.001
4.1.2             94.002
4.1.3             94.003
4.1.4             94.004
4.1.5             94.005
4.1.6             94.006
4.1.7             94.007
4.1.8             94.008
4.2.1             94.020
4.2.2             94.021
4.2.3             94.022
4.2.4             94.023
4.2.5             94.024
4.2.6             94.025
4.3.1             94.035
4.3.2             94.036
4.3.3             94.037
4.3.4             94.038
4.3.5             94.039
4.3.6             94.040
4.4.1             94.050
4.4.2             94.051
4.5.1             94.065
4.5.2             94.066
4.5.3             94.067
4.5.4             94.068
4.6.1             94.080
4.6.2             94.081
4.6.3             94.082
4.6.4             94.083
4.6.5             94.084
4.7.1             94.095
4.7.2             94.096
4.7.3             94.097
4.7.4             94.098
4.8.1             94.110
4.8.2             94.111
4.8.3             94.112
4.9.1             94.125
4.9.2             94.126
4.10.1            94.140
4.10.2            94.141
4.10.3            94.142
4.10.4            94.143
4.10.5            94.144
4.10.6            94.145
4.10.7            94.146
4.10.8            94.147
5.1.1             110.01
5.1.2             110.02
5.2.1             111.01
5.2.2             111.02
5.2.3             111.03
5.2.4             111.04
5.2.5             111.05
5.2.6             111.06
5.2.7             111.07
5.2.8             111.08
5.2.9             111.09
5.2.10            111.10
5.2.11            111.11
5.2.12            111.12
5.2.13            111.13
5.2.14            111.14
5.2.15            111.15
5.2.16            111.16
5.2.17            111.17
5.2.18            111.99
5.3.1             110.15
5.4.1             150.01
5.4.2             150.02
5.4.3             150.03
5.4.4             150.04
6.1.1             70.01
6.1.2             70.02
6.1.3             70.03
6.1.4             70.04
6.1.5             70.05
6.1.6             70.06
6.1.7             70.07
6.1.8             70.08
6.1.9             70.09
6.1.10            70.10
6.1.11            70.11
6.2.1             70.25
6.2.2             70.26
6.3.1             71.01
6.3.2             71.02
6.3.3             71.03
6.3.4             71.04
6.3.5             71.05
6.4.1             72.01
6.4.2             72.02
6.4.3             72.03
6.4.4             72.04
7.1.1             130.01
7.1.2             130.02
7.1.3             130.03
7.1.4             130.04
7.1.5             130.05
7.1.6             130.06
7.1.7             130.07
7.2.1             93.01
7.2.2             93.02
7.2.3             93.03
7.2.4             93.04
7.3.1             90.01
7.3.2             90.02
7.3.3             90.03
7.3.4             90.03
7.3.5             90.04
7.3.6             90.04
7.3.7             90.05
7.3.8             90.06
7.3.9             90.07
7.3.10            90.99
7.4.1             131.01
7.4.2             131.02
7.4.3             131.03
8.1.1             151.01
8.1.2             151.02
8.2.1             151.15
8.2.2             151.16
8.2.3             151.03
8.2.5             151.17
8.2.6             151.18
8.2.7             151.19
8.3.1             153.01,
                  154.01
8.3.2             153.02,
                  154.02
8.3.3             153.03,
                  154.03
8.3.4             153.04,
                  154.04
8.3.5             153.05,
                  154.05
8.3.6             154.06
9.1.1             92.15
9.1.2             92.16
9.1.3             92.17
9.1.4             92.18
9.1.5             92.19
9.1.6             92.20
9.2.1             92.04
9.3.1             92.30
9.3.2             92.31
9.3.3             92.32
9.3.4             92.33
9.3.5             92.34
9.4.1             92.45
9.4.2             92.46
9.4.3             92.47
9.4.4             92.48
9.4.5             92.49
9.5.1             92.01
9.5.2             92.02
9.5.3             92.03
10.1.1            91.01
10.1.2            91.02
10.1.3            91.03
10.1.4            91.04
10.1.6            91.05
10.1.7            91.06
10.1.8            91.07
10.1.9            91.08
10.1.10           91.09
10.1.13           91.10
10.1.14           91.11
10.1.15           91.12,
                  91.99
10.2.1            91.25
10.2.2            91.26
10.2.3            91.27
10.3.1            91.40
10.3.2            91.41
10.3.3            91.42
10.3.4            91.43
10.4.1            91.55
10.4.2            91.56
10.4.3            91.57
10.4.4            91.58
10.4.5            91.59
10.4.6            91.60
Chapter 11        11.01
11.1.1            152.35
11.1.2            152.36
11.1.3            152.37
11.1.4            152.38
11.2.1            152.01
11.2.2            152.02
11.2.3            152.03
11.2.4            152.04
11.2.5            152.05
11.2.6            152.06
11.2.7            152.07
11.3.1            152.20
11.3.2            152.21
11.3.3            152.22
11.3.4            152.23
11.3.5            152.24
11.4.1            152.50
11.4.2            152.51
11.4.3            152.52,
                  152.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2        9-19-2009   31.06
9        9-8-2010    151.03
11       9-8-2010    151.17
12       9-8-2010    151.18
8        9-18-2010   91.12,
                     91.99
17       5-6-2011    94.066
18       4-19-2012   91.04
21       11-16-2014  72.02
                     50.01 -
                     50.10,
                     51.01 -
                     51.11,
26       11-16-2014  52.01 -
                     52.08,
                     52.99,
                     53.01 -
                     53.03,
                     53.99
22       11-16-2014  72.03
23       11-16-2014  91.05
24       11-16-2014  91.11
27       9-21-2015   130.07
3        5-14-2018   111.03
-        4-12-2021   72.05
XI-112   8-16-2021   112.01
                    
 
 
