FAITH, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 360, passed 8-15-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 327
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FAITH, SOUTH DAKOTA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
FAITH, SOUTH DAKOTA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; AND PROVIDING
FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING THE CODE.
WHEREAS, SDCL Chpt 9-19 authorizes the City to revise, amend, restate, codify,
and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore
adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in
book form;
WHEREAS, every 20 years, the City Charter Section 2.16 has authorized a general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form
(hereinafter “the recodification”);
WHEREAS, the last recodification occurred in 1984;
WHEREAS, the present and permanent ordinances of the City are inadequately
arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance, which has
resulted in this recodification being conducted; and
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF FAITH, SD:
Section 1.   Pursuant to SDCL Chpt. 9-19 and the City Charter Section 2.16, the
Code entitled “The Code of Ordinances of Faith, South Dakota,” (hereinafter
“the Code”) published by American Legal Publishing, consisting of Titles I,
III, V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, and XV, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds of or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase of sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 3.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance of the
City shall be punished by a fine of not more than One Hundred Dollars ($
100.00), or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. Each act of a
violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless
another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code
section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the City may pursue other remedies
such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses
or permits.
Section 4.   Additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code,
will be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 5.   Ordinances adopted after July 1, 2018, which amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 6.   The City shall publish the Ordinance, without attachment, after
its passage. The attachment is on file and available for inspection in the
office of the City Clerk.
Adopted this 2nd day of July, 2018.
                                 FOR THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF FAITH,
SOUTH DAKOTA
                                 BY: Glen Haines /s/
                                    Glen Haines, Mayor
ATTEST:
By: Debbie Brown /s/
   Debbie Brown, Finance Officer
(SEAL)
First Reading:               06-19-18
Second Reading and Adoption:         07-02-18
Publication:                  07-11-18
Effective Date:               07-31-18
2019 S-1
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Powers of the City
   
1.01   Powers of the city
   
1.02   Construction
   
1.03   Intergovernmental relations
   
1.04   Limitations
   
1.05   New taxes
Article II. City Council
   
2.01   General powers and duties
   
2.02    Composition, eligibility, terms, bond required, designation of areas of
responsibility, powers and duties
   
2.03   Mayor
   
2.04   Compensation; expenses
   
2.05   Prohibitions; holding other office
   
2.06   Vacancies; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies
   
2.07   Judge of qualifications
   
2.08   Finance Officer
   
2.09   Investigations
   
2.10   Independent audit
   
2.11   Procedure
   
2.12   Action requiring an ordinance
   
2.13   Ordinances and resolutions in general
   
2.14   Emergency ordinances
   
2.15   Codes of technical regulations
   
2.16   Authentication and recording; codification; printing
Article III. Departments, Offices and Agencies
   
3.01   General provisions
   
3.02   Legal Officer
Article IV. Financial Procedures
   
4.01   Fiscal year
   
4.02   Submission of budget and budget message
   
4.03   Budget
   
4.04   City Council action on budget
   
4.05   Appropriation and revenue ordinances
   
4.06   Amendments after adoption
   
4.07   Lapse of appropriations
   
4.08   Administration of budget
   
4.09   Overspending of appropriations prohibited
   
4.10   Public records
Article V. Elections
   
5.01   City elections
   
5.02   Initiative and referendum
Article VI. Faith Municipal Utilities
   
6.01   Management and control of Faith Municipal Utilities
Article VII. General Provisions
   
7.01   Conflicts of interest
   
7.02   Prohibitions
Article VIII. Charter Amendment
   
8.01   Proposal of amendment
   
8.02   Election
   
8.03   Adoption of amendment
Article IX. Transition/Separability Provision
   
9.01   Officers and employees
   
9.02   Departments, offices and agencies
   
9.03   Pending matters
   
9.04   State and municipal laws
   
9.05   Schedule
   
9.06   Separability
ARTICLE I. POWERS OF THE CITY
SECTION 1.01 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The City shall have all powers it may now or hereafter be possible for a
municipal corporation in this State to exercise in harmony with the
Constitutions of this State and of the United States. It is the intention of
this Charter to confer upon the City every power which it would have if the
power were specifically mentioned. The City shall have every power except those
specifically denied by this Charter, the Constitution or the general laws of
the state.
SECTION 1.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This Charter shall be construed liberally in favor of the City and the
specific mention of particular municipal powers in other Sections of this
Charter does not limit the powers of the City to those so mentioned.
SECTION 1.03 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The City may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and
may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by
contract or otherwise, with any one (1) or more states or any state division or
agency, or the United States or any of its agencies or any township, county or
municipality.
   The City retains and reserves its right to Joint Exercise of Governmental
Powers as set forth in SDCL Title 1. Further the City adopts and ratifies each
and every contract and agreement entered into by virtue of that power under any
prior City organization or form of government.
SECTION 1.04 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this Charter shall be construed to permit the City to do any of
the following:
   1.   Levy a personal or corporate income tax;
   2.   Issue more liquor licenses; or
   3.   Permit increased gaming.
unless and except to the extent otherwise authorized to any City established as
a SDCL Title 9 authorized form of City government.
SECTION 1.05 NEW TAXES.
   Any new form or type of taxation which is approved by the City Council must
be referred to a vote of the people before it can become effective. This does
not apply to new or increased fees or increases in existing taxes.
ARTICLE II. CITY COUNCIL
SECTION 2.01 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the city shall be vested in the City Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter, and the Council shall provide for
the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the City by law.
SECTION 2.02 COMPOSITION, ELIGIBILITY, TERMS, BOND REQUIRED, DESIGNATION OF
AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Composition: There shall be a City Council composed of the Mayor and
six (6) Council members. One Council member shall be elected from each of the
three Wards for the City; and, the remaining three Council members shall be
elected by the voters of the City at large. Each such Council position shall be
designated by Ward number or as “at-large”. The Mayor shall be elected by the
voters of the City at large.
   (b)   Eligibility: Only the registered voters of the City who have resided
in the City and Ward shall be eligible to hold the office of Council member or
Mayor. Any person to be nominated, elected or appointed to any such position
shall be a citizen of the United States.
   (c)   Terms: The terms of Council member and the Mayor shall be for two (2)
years. The three (3) designated “at-large” Council member positions shall be
elected beginning with the first regular election following the adoption of
this Charter and shall begin their respective terms at the City Council meeting
in May following the election. The three (3) Ward designated Council member
positions shall be elected at the next regular election and shall begin their
respective terms at the City Council meeting in May following their election.
   (d)   Continuation of Terms of Council Members: The three (3) most recently
elected members of the present City Council and Mayor, upon the successful
adoption of this Charter by the voters of the City of Faith, shall continue in
office for the remainder of their respective terms and such positions shall be
designated as set forth in §
2.02(a) above and all may seek re-election if not prohibited by the terms of
this Charter. The remainder of the present City Council shall serve until the
City Council meeting in May following adoption of this charter and may seek re-
election under the “at-large” positions as set forth in §
2.03(c) if not prohibited by the terms of this Charter.
SECTION 2.03 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall serve as a member of the City Council. In the absence of the
Mayor the City Council shall designate one of its members as president with the
duties to be the same as the Mayor’s.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have no
vote except in case of a tie. The Mayor shall perform such other duties as may
be prescribed by the laws and ordinances, and take care that such laws and
ordinances are faithfully executed. The Mayor shall annually and from time to
time give the Council information relative to the affairs of the City, and
shall recommend for their consideration such measures as he may deem expedient.
   The Mayor shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or resolution
passed by the Council, and the power to veto any part or item of an ordinance
or resolution appropriating money. Any ordinance or resolution shall become
effective when the Mayor signs the ordinance or resolution or fails to veto the
ordinance or resolution before the start of the next regular meeting of the
Council. A vetoed ordinance, resolution, or part or item thereof together with
the Mayor’s objections shall be presented to the Council at the next regular
meeting of the Council following the original passage by the Council of the
ordinance, resolution, or part or item thereof. Any ordinance, resolution or
part or item thereof vetoed by the Mayor shall be reconsidered by the Council
only during the meeting at which the vetoed ordinance, resolution, or part or
item thereof along with the Mayor’s objections were presented to the Council;
and, if three-fourths of all members of the Council shall vote to pass the
ordinance, resolution or part or item thereof it shall become effective.
SECTION 2.04 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   The City Council may determine the annual salary of the Mayor and Council
members by resolution, but no resolution increasing such salary shall become
effective until the date of commencement of the term of the Council members
elected at the next regular election. The Mayor and Council members shall
receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties of office.
SECTION 2.05 PROHIBITIONS; HOLDING OTHER OFFICE.
   Except where authorized by law, no Council member shall hold any other
elected public office during the term for which the member was elected to the
Council. No Council member shall hold another City office or City employment
during the terms for which the member was elected to the Council. No former
Council member shall hold any compensated appointive office or employment with
the City until six months after the expiration of the term for which the member
was elected to the Council. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the Council from selecting any current or former Council member to
represent the City on the governing board of any regional or intergovernmental
agency.
SECTION 2.06 VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   a.   Vacancies: The office of a Council member or Mayor shall become vacant
upon the person’s death, resignation, removal from office or forfeiture of
office in any manner authorized by law.
   b.   Recall: The power of recall of the Mayor and Council members shall be
allowed as set forth in SDCL Title 9.
   c.   Forfeiture of Office: The Mayor or a Council member shall forfeit that
office if the Mayor or Council member:
      1.    Lacks at any time during the term of office for which elected any
qualification for the office prescribed by this Charter or by law.
      2.    Violates any expressed prohibition in §
7.02 of this Charter.
      3.    Fails to maintain residency within City limits or within the Ward
from which the Council member was elected.
      4.   Is convicted of a felony.
      5.    Fails to attend 75% of the regular meetings of the Council during a
fiscal year, or three consecutive regular meetings of the Council, without
being excused by the Council.
   d.    Filling of Vacancies: A vacancy in the office of City Council shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, at the next regular
election following not less than 60 days upon the occurrence of the vacancy,
but the Council by a majority vote of all its remaining members shall appoint a
qualified person to fill the vacancy until the person elected to serve the
remainder of the unexpired term takes office. Notwithstanding the requirement
in §
2.11, if at any time the membership of the Council is reduced to less than
four, the remaining members may by majority action appoint additional members
to raise the membership to four.
SECTION 2.07 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their office. The City Council
shall have the power to set additional standards of conduct for its members
beyond those specified in the Charter and may provide for such penalties as it
deems appropriate, including forfeiture of office. In order to exercise these
powers, the Council shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths
and require the production of evidence. A member charged with conduct
constituting grounds for forfeiture of office shall be entitled to a public
hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in a legal
newspaper for the City at least seven days in advance of the hearing. Decisions
made by the Council under this section shall be subject to judicial review.
SECTION 2.08 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall appoint an officer of the City who shall have the title of
Finance Officer. The City Council shall approve such appointment. The Finance
Officer shall give notice of Council meetings to its members and the public,
keep the journal of its proceedings and perform such other duties as are
assigned by this Charter, City Ordinance, the Council or state law. The Mayor
may in lieu of or in addition to the appointment of a Finance Officer recommend
to the Council the appointment of a City Manager. The City Manager, if
appointed, shall have all powers and duties as set forth under state law.
SECTION 2.09 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The City Council may make investigations into the affairs of the City and
the conduct of any City department, office or agency and for this purpose may
subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production
of evidence. Failure or refusal to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise
of these powers by the Council shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine and/
or jail sentence to be established by resolution of the Council.
SECTION 2.10 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The City Council shall provide for an independent biannual audit of all City
accounts and may provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such
audits shall be made by a certified public accountant or firm of such
accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the City government or any of its officers. The Council may, without
requiring competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a
period not exceeding two years, but the designation for any particular fiscal
year shall be made no later than 30 days after the beginning of such fiscal
year. If the state auditor general makes such an audit, the Council may accept
it as satisfying the requirements of this section.
SECTION 2.11 PROCEDURE.
   a.   Meetings: The Council shall meet regularly at such times and places as
the Council may prescribe by Ordinance. Special meetings may be held on the
call of the Mayor or of 3 or more members and, whenever practicable, upon no
less than twenty-four (24) hours notice to each member. Except as allowed by
state law, all meetings shall be public; however, the Council may recess for
the purpose of discussing in a closed or executive session limited to its own
membership, legal counsel and other persons invited by the Council, any matter
which would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation of any
person, any matter concerning personnel or collective bargaining matters or any
threatened or pending litigation, if the general subject matter for
consideration is expressed in the motion calling for such session and final
action on such motion is not taken by the Council until the matter is placed on
the agenda.
   b.   Rules and Journal: The City Council shall determine its own rules and
order of business and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings.
This journal shall be a public record.
   c.   Voting: Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call and
the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal. Four members of the Council
shall constitute a quorum, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time
and may compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and subject to
the penalties prescribed by the rules of the Council. No action of the Council,
except as otherwise provided in the preceding sentence and in §
2.06, shall be valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of 4 or
more members of the Council.
SECTION 2.12 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Council shall be by
ordinance which:
   a.   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, or abolish any City
department, office or agency.
   b.   Levy taxes.
   c.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise.
   d.   Regulate land use and development.
   e.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted.
   f.   Establish and regulate the conduct of elections.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done
either by ordinance or by resolution.
SECTION 2.13 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS IN GENERAL.
   City ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced, published, enacted,
recorded, and codified as provided in state law; however, the City Council may
by ordinance amend such procedures.
SECTION 2.14 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public
peace, the City Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such
ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, or authorize
the borrowing of money except as provided in §
4.06(b). An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner
prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated
as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a
declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and
specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment
or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote
of at least 4 members shall be required for adoption. After its adoption, the
ordinance shall be published and printed as prescribed for other adopted
ordinances. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it
may specify. Every emergency ordinance, except one made pursuant to §
4.06(b), shall automatically stand repealed as of the 61st day following the
date on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent re-enactment of the
ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still
exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing
ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of
emergency ordinance.
SECTION 2.15 CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements
governing such an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances
generally except that:
   a.   The requirements of §
2.13 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed
to include copies of the code of technical regulations as well as of the
adopting ordinance.
   b.   A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations as well as of the
adopting ordinance shall be authenticated and recorded by the Finance officer
pursuant to §
2.16(a).
   Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available
by the Finance Officer for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
SECTION 2.16 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING; CODIFICATION; PRINTING.
   a.   Authentication and Recording: The Finance Officer shall authenticate by
signing and shall record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the
purpose all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council.
   b.   Codification: Within five years after adoption of this Charter and at
least every twenty years thereafter, the City Council shall provide for the
preparation of a general codification of all City ordinances and resolutions
having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted
by the Council by ordinance and shall be published promptly in bound or loose-
leaf form, together with this Charter and any amendments thereto, pertinent
provisions of the Constitution and other laws of the State of South Dakota, and
such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the
Council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as
the Faith City Code of Ordinances. Copies of the Code shall be furnished to
City Officers, placed in libraries and public offices for free public reference
and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price fixed by
the Council.
   c.   Printing of Ordinances and Resolutions: The City Council shall cause
each ordinance and resolution having the force and effect of law and each
amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and
the printed ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be distributed
or sold to the public at reasonable prices as fixed by the Council. Following
publication of the first Faith City Code of ordinances and at all times
thereafter, the ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be printed
in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be
suitable in form for integration therein. The Council shall make such further
arrangements as it deems desirable with respect to reproduction and
distribution of any current changes in or addition to the provisions of the
constitution and other laws of the State of South Dakota, or the codes or
technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
ARTICLE III. DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES
SECTION 3.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The City Council may establish City departments, offices or agencies in
addition to those created by this Charter and may prescribe the function of all
departments, offices and agencies, except that no function assigned by this
Charter to a particular department, office or agency may be discontinued or,
unless this Charter specifically so provides, assigned to any other.
SECTION 3.02 LEGAL OFFICER.
   There shall be a legal officer of the City appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. The legal officer shall serve as chief legal
advisor to the Council, and all city departments, offices and agencies and
shall represent the City in all legal proceedings and shall perform any other
duties prescribed by state law, by this Charter or by Ordinances.
ARTICLE IV. FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
SECTION 4.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of January and end
on the last day of December.
SECTION 4.02 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
   On or before the 1st day of August of each year, the finance officer shall
submit to the City Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and an
accompanying message.
SECTION 4.03 BUDGET.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all City funds and
activities for the ensuing fiscal year and except as required by law or this
Charter, shall be in such form as the City Council may require. The budget
shall begin with a clear general summary of its contents; shall show in detail
all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service, for the ensuing fiscal year; and
shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated
income and expenditures of the current fiscal year. It shall indicate in
separate sections:
   a.   The proposed goals and objectives and expenditures for current
operations during the ensuing fiscal year, detailed for each fund by
organization unit, and program, purpose or activity, and the method of
financing such expenditures.
   b.   Proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing fiscal year; detailed
for each fund by organization unit when practicable, and the proposed method of
financing each such capital expenditure.
   For any fund, the total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total
of estimated income plus the fund balance carried forward, exclusive of
reserves.
SECTION 4.04 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   The City Council shall adopt the budget on or before the 30th day of
September of the fiscal year currently ending. If it fails to adopt the budget
by this date, the budget proposed by the finance officer shall go into effect.
SECTION 4.05 APPROPRIATION AND REVENUE ORDINANCES.
   To implement the adopted budget of the ensuing fiscal year, the City
Council:
   a.   Shall, no later than its first regular meeting in September of each
year or within 10 days thereafter, introduce the annual appropriation ordinance
for the ensuing fiscal year, in which it shall appropriate the sums of money
necessary to meet all lawful expenses and liabilities of the municipality. The
ordinance shall specify the function and subfunction as prescribed by the
department of legislative audit for which the appropriations are made and the
amount appropriated for each function and subfunction, which amount shall be
appropriated from the proper fund. It is not necessary to appropriate revenue
to be expended from an enterprise or trust and agency fund if the fund is not
supported or subsidized by revenue derived from the annual appropriated tax
levy. However, an annual budget for these funds shall be developed and
published no later than the last day of December of each year.
   b.   Shall adopt any other ordinances required to authorize new revenues or
to amend the rates or other features of existing taxes or other revenue
sources.
SECTION 4.06 AMENDMENTS AFTER ADOPTION.
   a.   Supplemental Appropriations: If during the fiscal year the finance
officer certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess
of those estimated in the budget, the City Council by ordinance may make
supplemental appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess
revenues.
   b.   Emergency Appropriations: To meet a public emergency affecting life,
health, property, or the public peace, the City Council may make emergency
appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of §
2.14. To the extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues or a
sufficient fund balance to meet such appropriations, the Council may be such
emergency ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes, which may be
renewed from time to time, but the emergency notes and renewals of any fiscal
year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next
succeeding that in which the emergency appropriation was made.
   c.   Reduction of Appropriations: If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the finance officer that the revenues or fund balances
available will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for which
appropriations have been authorized, the finance officer shall report to the
City Council without delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any
remedial action taken by the mayor and recommendations as to any other steps to
be taken. The Council shall then take such further action as it deems necessary
to prevent or reduce any deficit and for that purpose it may by ordinance
reduce one or more appropriations.
   d.   Transfer of Appropriations: At any time during the fiscal year the City
Council may by resolution transfer part or all of the unencumbered
appropriation balance from one department or major organizational unit to the
appropriation for other departments or major organizational units. The finance
officer may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balances
among programs within a department or organizational unit and shall report such
transfers to the Council in writing prior to the next Council meeting.
   e.   Limitation; Effective Date: No appropriation for debt service may be
reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the
unencumbered balance thereof. The emergency appropriations and reduction or
transfer of appropriations authorized by this section may be made effective
immediately upon adoption.
SECTION 4.07 LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the
extent that it has not been expended or encumbered.
SECTION 4.08 ADMINISTRATION OF BUDGET.
   The City Council shall provide by ordinance the procedures for administering
the budget.
SECTION 4.09 OVERSPENDING OF APPROPRIATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No payment shall be made or obligation incurred against any allotment or
appropriation except in accordance with appropriations duly made and unless the
finance officer or the finance officer’s designee first certifies that there is
a sufficient unencumbered balance in such allotment or appropriation and that
sufficient funds therefrom are or will be available to cover the claim or meet
the obligation when it becomes due and payable. Any authorization of payment or
incurring of obligation in violation of the provisions of this Charter shall be
void and any payments made illegal. A violation of this provision shall be
cause for removal of any officer who knowingly authorized or made such payment
or incurred such obligation. Such officer may also be liable to the City for
any amount so paid. Except where prohibited by law, however, nothing in this
Charter shall be construed to prevent the making or authorizing of payments or
making of contracts for capital improvements to be financed wholly or partly by
the issuance of bonds or to prevent the making of any contract or lease
providing for payments beyond the end of the fiscal year, but only if such
action is made or approved by ordinance.
SECTION 4.10 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget, and appropriation and revenue ordinances shall be
public records and shall be made available to the public at suitable places in
the City.
ARTICLE V. ELECTIONS
SECTION 5.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   a.   Regular Elections: The regular City election shall be held at the time
established by state law or as otherwise established by ordinance of the City
Council.
   b.   Registered Voter Defined: All citizens legally registered under the
Constitution and laws of the State of South Dakota to vote in the City shall be
registered voters of the City within the meaning of this Charter.
   c.   Conduct of Elections: The provisions of the general election laws of
the State of South Dakota shall apply to elections held under this Charter or
as set forth in any ordinance adopted by the City Council. All elections
provided by for the Charter shall be conducted by the election authorities
established by law. Candidates shall run for office without party designation.
For the conduct of City elections, for the prevention of fraud in such
elections and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or fraud, the City
Council shall adopt ordinances consistent with law and this Charter, and the
election authorities may adopt further regulations consistent with law and this
Charter and the ordinances of the Council. Such ordinances and regulations
pertaining to elections shall be publicized in the manner of City ordinances
generally.
SECTION 5.02 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are hereby reserved to the electors
of the City. The provisions of the election law of the State of South Dakota,
as they currently exist or may hereafter be amended or superseded, shall govern
the exercise of the powers of initiative and referendum under this Charter.
ARTICLE VI. FAITH MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
SECTION 6.01 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF FAITH MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   The management and control of the Faith Municipal Utilities is vested in the
City Council. The City Council may take any and all action it deems advisable
in the furtherance of any utilities or enterprises now existing or hereafter
acquired under its control including the borrowing of money, issuance of bonds
and other forms of indebtedness. These powers shall not be limited except to
the extent expressly prohibited by the Constitutions of the United States or
State of South Dakota, or this Charter.
ARTICLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 7.01 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The use of public office for private gain is prohibited. The City Council
shall implement this prohibition by ordinance. Regulations to this end shall
include but not be limited to: acting in an official capacity on matters in
which the official has a private financial interest clearly separate from that
of the general public; the acceptance of gifts and other things of value;
acting in a private capacity on matters dealt with as a public official,
including the use of confidential information; and appearances by City
officials before other City agencies on behalf of private interests. The
appearance of impropriety shall be avoided. Municipal officials shall be, at a
minimum, restricted from conflict of interest to the same extent that state
public officials are bound by state law; provided however, that the City
Council may adopt an ordinance setting a stricter standard.
SECTION 7.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   a.   Activities Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way
favored or discriminated against with respect to any City position or
appointive City administrative office because of race, gender, age, handicap,
religion, country of origin, or political affiliation.
      2.   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate,
mark, rating, or report in regard to any test, certification, or appointment
under the provisions of this Charter or the rules and regulations made
hereunder, or in any manner commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution
of such provisions, rules and regulations.
      3.   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any
appointive City office shall directly or indirectly give, render, or pay any
money, service, or other valuable thing to any person for or in connection with
any test, appointment, proposed appointment or promotion.
      4.   No person shall knowingly or willfully solicit or assist in
soliciting any assessment, subscription, or contribution for any political
party or political purpose to be used in conjunction with any City election
from any City employee.
      5.   No City employee shall, directly or indirectly, contribute money or
anything of value to or render service in behalf of the candidacy of any
candidate for nomination or election to any City office. The expression of
private or personal views concerning candidates for political office is not
prohibited. Violation of this section shall be grounds for discharge or other
disciplinary action.
   b.   Penalties: Any violation of this section shall be sufficient cause for
the suspension, demotion, or termination of the employment of any City employee
found to be in violation of this Section. The City Council shall establish by
ordinance such further penalties as it may deem appropriate.
ARTICLE VIII. CHARTER AMENDMENT
SECTION 8.01 PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT.
   Amendments to this Charter may be framed and proposed:
   a.   In the manner provided by law, or
   b.   By ordinance of the City Council containing the full text of the
proposed amendment (except §§
1.04,
1.05,
2.01,
2.02,
2.03 and
2.04 cannot be so amended) and effective upon adoption; or
   c.   By the voters of the City, when any 50 qualified voters initiate
proceedings to amend the Charter by filing with the finance officer an
affidavit stating they will constitute the petitioners' committee and be
responsible for circulating the petition and filing it in proper form, stating
their names and addresses and specifying the address to which all notices to
the committee are to be sent, and setting out in full the proposed Charter
amendment. Promptly after the affidavit of the petitioners’ committee is filed,
the clerk shall issue the appropriate petition blanks to the petitioners’
committee. The petitions shall contain or have attached thereto throughout
their circulation the full text of the proposed Charter amendment and must be
signed by registered voters of the City in the number of at least ten (10%)
percent of those individuals actually voting in the City in the preceding
gubernatorial election.
SECTION 8.02 ELECTION.
   Upon delivery by the finance officer of an adopted ordinance proposing an
amendment pursuant to §
8.01(b) or a petition finally determined sufficient to propose an amendment
pursuant to §
8.01(d), the election authorities shall submit the proposed amendment to the
voters of the City in an election. Such election shall be announced by a notice
containing the complete text of the proposed amendment and published in one or
more newspapers of general circulation in the City at least 30 days prior to
the date of the election. If the amendment is proposed by petition, the
amendment may be withdrawn at any time prior to the 13th day preceding the day
scheduled for the election by filing with the finance officer a request for
withdrawal signed by at least a two-thirds of the members of the petitioners’
committee. The election shall be held not less than 60 and not more than 120
days after the adoption of the ordinance or report or the final determination
of sufficiency of the petition proposing the amendment. If no regular election
is to be held within that period, the City Council shall provide for a special
election on the proposed amendment as specified in the state election law.
SECTION 8.03 ADOPTION OF AMENDMENT.
   If a majority of the registered voters of the City voting upon a proposed
Charter amendment vote in favor of it, the amendment shall become effective at
the time fixed in the amendment or, if no time is therein fixed, 30 days after
the initial canvas certifying its adoption by the voters.
ARTICLE IX. TRANSITION/SEPARABILITY PROVISION
SECTION 9.01 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   a.   Rights and Privileges Preserved: Nothing in this Charter, except as
otherwise specifically provided, shall affect or impair the rights or
privileges of persons who are City officers or employees at the time of its
adoption.
   b.   Continuance of Office or Employment: Except as specifically provided by
this Charter, if at the time this Charter takes full effect a City
administrative officer or employee holds any office or position which is or can
be abolished by or under this Charter, he or she shall continue in such office
or position until the taking effect of some specific provision under this
Charter directing that he or she vacate the office or position.
   c.   Personnel System: An employee holding a City position at the time this
Charter takes full effect, who was serving in that same or a comparable
position at the time of its adoption, shall not be subject to competitive tests
as a condition of continuance in the same position but in all other respects
shall be subject to the personnel system [provided by ordinance.]
SECTION 9.02 DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES.
   a.   Transfer of Powers: If a City department, office or agency is abolished
by this Charter, the powers and duties given it by law shall be transferred to
the City departments, office or agency designated in this Charter or, if the
Charter makes no provision, as designated by the City Council.
   b.   Property and Records: All property, records and equipment of any
department, office or agency existing when this Charter is adopted shall be
transferred to the departments, office or agency assuming its powers and
duties, but, in the event that the powers or duties are to be discontinued or
divided between units or in the event that any conflict arises regarding a
transfer, such property, records or equipment shall be transferred to one or
more departments, offices or agencies designated by the City Council in
accordance with this Charter.
SECTION 9.03 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, collective bargaining agreements,
contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue except as
modified pursuant to the provisions of this Charter and in each case shall be
maintained, carried on or dealt with by the City Department, office or agency
appropriate under this Charter.
SECTION 9.04 STATE AND MUNICIPAL LAWS.
   All City ordinances, resolutions, orders and regulations which are in force
when this Charter becomes effective shall continue except an ordinance is
repealed to the extent it is inconsistent with this Charter or of ordinances or
resolutions adopted pursuant hereto. To the extent that the Constitutions and
laws of the State of South Dakota permit, all laws relating to or affecting
this City or its agencies, officers or employees which are in force when this
Charter becomes fully effective are superseded to the extent that they are
inconsistent or interfere with the effective operation of this Charter or of
ordinances oz resolutions adopted pursuant hereto.
SECTION 9.05 SCHEDULE.
   a.   First Election: At the time of its adoption, this Charter shall be in
effect to the extent necessary in order that the first election of members of
the City Council may be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter. The first election shall be held on the first Tuesday of April 2002.
The present City Council shall prepare and adopt temporary regulations
applicable only to the first election and designed to insure its proper conduct
and to prevent fraud and provide for recount of ballots in cases of doubt or
fraud.
   b.   Time of Taking Full Effect: The Charter shall be in full effect for all
purposes on and after the date and time of its adoption.
SECTION 9.06 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this Charter is held invalid, the other provisions of
the Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the Chart or
any of its provisions to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the
application of this Charter and its provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Faith Code”, for
which designation “code of ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy may do as well as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Faith, South Dakota.
   CITY. The City Council of the City of Faith, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. The County of Meade, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Faith, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Faith, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except in cases where a different or additional penalty is imposed by this
code of ordinances or by some existing provision of law, every violation of any
of the provisions of this code shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $100
or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0101)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Boundaries
   
30.02   Wards and voting precincts
   
30.03   Fire limits
§ 30.01 BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate limits of the city shall be declared to be such as have been
legally established and amended by law and ordinances of the city as shown on
the official map on file in the office of the Finance Officer. Such map shall
be incorporated in this section by reference and adopted as the official map
showing the boundaries and limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.0101)
§ 30.02 WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS.
   The city is hereby divided into three wards, as illustrated on the map
below, and which is described as follows.
   (A)   First Ward. The First Ward shall be the area of the city bounded on
the east and south by the city limits, the north by Second Street East
beginning at the intersection with South First Avenue West east to Second
Avenue East continuing north to First Street/Highway 212 thence east to the
city limits, and the west by South First Avenue West beginning at the
intersection with Second Street East south to West Fifth Street continuing east
to Main Street thence south to the city limits.
   (B)   Second Ward. The Second Ward shall be the area of the city bounded on
the north, east, and west by the city limits, and the south by First Street/
Highway 212 west to Second Avenue East continuing south to Second Street East
thence west to Fifth Avenue West thence south to the city limits.
   (C)   Third Ward. The Third Ward shall be the area of the city bounded on
the north by Second Street West from the intersection with Fifth Avenue West
east to the intersection with South First Avenue West, the south by the city
limits, the west by Fifth Avenue West from the intersection with Second Street
West south to the city limits, and the east by South First Avenue West
beginning at the intersection with Second Street West south to West Fifth
Street continuing east to Main Street thence south to the city limits.
(Ord. 265, passed 2-5-2002)
§ 30.03 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the city shall embrace one-half of blocks 1, 2, 5, 6, 9,
10, 13, and 14 or to the alley on each side of Main Street within said blocks.
(Prior Code, § 4.0401)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Municipal Employees
   
31.01   Appointment of officers
   
31.02   Employment policies
Mayor and City Council
   
31.15   Mayor; duties
   
31.16   President and Vice-President of Council
   
31.17   Compensation
   
31.18   Supervision of departments
   
31.19   Qualification of officers
   
31.20   Vacancies; how filled
   
31.21   City Council; membership; terms of office
   
31.22   Prohibitions; hold other office or employment
   
31.23   Opting out of waste reductions
Meetings of City Council
   
31.35   Regular meetings
   
31.36   Special meetings
   
31.37   Open meetings; record
   
31.38   Quorum required for action
   
31.39   Recording of votes; number of votes required
   
31.40   Silence constitutes affirmative vote
   
31.41   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions
   
31.42   Reading and approval of minutes
   
31.43   Agenda
   
31.44   Parliamentary procedure
Cross-reference:
   Boundaries, see §
30.01
   Finance and Revenue, see
Chapter 32
   Fire limits, see §
30.03
   Wards and voting precincts, see §
30.02
MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the first regular meeting of each year, there shall be appointed a
Finance Officer, Chief of Police, and such other officers as may be provided by
ordinance, to hold office until the appointment and qualifications of
successors. All such appointments shall be made by the Mayor with approval of
the City Council. The City Council may by resolution enter into a contract
pursuant to SDCL Ch. 9-14 with an attorney to provide legal services to the
city as the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1.0101)
§ 31.02 EMPLOYMENT POLICIES.
   All policies regarding personnel regulations and benefits of the city shall
be included in a personnel policy manual which shall be filed with the Finance
Officer and available to all municipal employees.
(Prior Code, § 1.0102)
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.15 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council but shall have
no vote except in case of a tie. The Mayor shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by laws and ordinances and ensure that such laws and
ordinances are faithfully executed, and shall have the power to veto any part
or item of an ordinance or resolution appropriating money.
(Prior Code, § 1.0201)
§ 31.16 PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   At the first regular meeting after the annual election in each year and upon
the qualification of the newly elected Council members, the City Council shall
elect from among its members a President and Vice-President, who shall hold
their respective offices for the municipal year. The President of the City
Council, in the absence of the Mayor, shall be presiding officer of the City
Council, and during the temporary disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city, shall be Acting Mayor and possess all of the powers of the Mayor. In the
absence or disability of the Mayor and President of the City Council, the Vice-
President shall perform the duties of the Mayor and President of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0202)
§ 31.17 COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor and members of the City Council shall be allowed compensation as
provided by ordinance which shall be paid in such installments as may be
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0203)
§ 31.18 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, shall appoint, each year,
members of the Council to act in a supervisory capacity in each of the
departments designated, and such Council members, so appointed, shall have
supervision over said department and shall be requested by the Council to
report as to the condition and matters in said department.
(Prior Code, § 1.0204)
§ 31.19 QUALIFICATION OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor and members of the Council shall qualify by filing the
Constitutional Oath with the Finance Officer. All appointive officers shall
qualify by filing the Constitutional Oath and by refurnishing such undertaking
as required by the City Council or otherwise required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.0205)
§ 31.20 VACANCIES; HOW FILLED.
   Vacancies in any appointive office shall be filled by appointment. Vacancies
in any office of the governing body shall be filled by the City Council until
the next regular election. Any Alderman so appointed shall reside from the ward
in which the vacancy exists. The Mayor so appointed shall be a resident of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 1.0206)
§ 31.21 CITY COUNCIL; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The City Council consists of the Mayor who is elected at-large, an Alderman
from each ward, and three Aldermen elected at-large. The Aldermen and Mayor
shall hold office for two years.
(Prior Code, § 1.0207)
§ 31.22 PROHIBITIONS; HOLD OTHER OFFICE OR EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Except where authorized by law, no Council member shall hold any other
elected public office during the term for which the member was elected to the
Council.
   (B)   No Council member shall hold another city office, compensated
appointive office, or compensated city employment, except as authorized by SDCL
§ 6-1-2, during the term for which the member was elected to the Council or
until three months after the expiration of the term for which the member was
elected to the Council.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Council
from selecting any current or former Council member to represent the city on
the governing board of any regional or intergovernmental agency.
   (D)   No Council member may participate in discussing or vote on any issue
in which:
      (1)   The official has a direct pecuniary interest in the matter before
the governing body; or
      (2)   At least two-thirds of the Council votes that the Council member
has an identifiable conflict of interest that should prohibit such Council
member from participating in the discussion or voting on a specific matter.
   (E)   The question of adoption of the proposed amendment was submitted to
the voters as a special election on November 8, 2016.
(Ord. 321, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 31.23 OPTING OUT OF WASTE REDUCTIONS.
   The City Council opts out of the waste reduction targets for all office and
computer paper, all printed paper products and corrugated cardboard, and all
containers made from glass, plastic, aluminum, or steel.
(Ord. 248, passed 5-7-1996)
MEETINGS OF CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.35 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the City Council Room
on the first and third Tuesdays of the month.
(Prior Code, § 1.0301) (Ord. 244, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 31.36 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called at any time by the Mayor
or by any two Aldermen to consider only such matters as shall be mentioned in
the call for any such meeting. In the case of special meetings, the Finance
Officer shall issue notices in writing, stating the time and place of holding
such meeting and the matters to be considered. In the event that the written
notices of the meeting cannot be received by mail prior to the special meeting,
they shall be served by the Police Department upon each member of the City
Council at least one hour before the time specified for such meeting (see SDCL
§ 1-25-1.1).
(Prior Code, § 1.0302)
§ 31.37 OPEN MEETINGS; RECORD.
   All City Council meetings shall be open to the public and a record or
journal of all meetings shall be maintained. Copies shall be furnished upon
request and upon payment of a reasonable charge for reproduction.
(Prior Code, § 1.0303)
§ 31.38 QUORUM REQUIRED FOR ACTION.
   Four members of the Council shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1.0304)
§ 31.39 RECORDING OF VOTES; NUMBER OF VOTES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and upon any proposal to create a liability against the city or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the
request of any Council member, which shall be entered on the journal of the
proceedings.
   (B)   The concurrence of a majority of all the Aldermen shall be necessary
to the passage of any such ordinance or proposal.
   (C)   It shall require a two-thirds vote of all the Aldermen to sell any
city property.
   (D)   It shall require a unanimous vote of the Aldermen to borrow money.
(Prior Code, § 1.0305)
§ 31.40 SILENCE CONSTITUTES AFFIRMATIVE VOTE.
   The silence of any Alderman shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Prior Code, § 1.0306)
§ 31.41 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters requiring action by the City
Council must be introduced and sponsored by an Alderman, except that the Mayor
or City Attorney may present ordinances, resolutions, and other matters to the
City Council and any Alderman may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that
such ordinances, resolutions, matters, or subjects be adopted; otherwise, they
shall not be considered.
(Prior Code, § 1.0307)
§ 31.42 READING AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   Unless a reading of the minutes of a Council meeting is requested by a
member of the City Council, such minutes may be approved without reading if the
Finance Officer has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1.0308)
§ 31.43 AGENDA.
   At all regular meetings of the City Council, the business of the meeting
shall be considered in the following order:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Pledge of Allegiance;
   (C)   Correction and approval of minutes of previous regular and special
meetings;
   (D)   Presentation of claims and communications;
   (E)   Visitors;
   (F)   Introduction and first reading of ordinances;
   (G)   Introduction of resolutions;
   (H)   Second reading and final passage of ordinances;
   (I)   Reports of officers and committees;
   (J)   Unfinished business;
   (K)   New business;
   (L)   Miscellaneous business;
   (M)   Executive session; and
   (N)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1.0309)
§ 31.44 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Robert’s Rules of Order are hereby adopted as the rules which shall govern
the Council’s proceedings in all cases which are not covered by the procedures
set out in this subchapter or not otherwise covered by state laws.
(Prior Code, § 1.0310)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Municipal Sales and Service Tax; Use Tax
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Effective date and enactment of tax
   
32.03   Use tax
   
32.04   Collection
   
32.05   Interpretation
Municipal Gross Receipts Tax
   
32.30   Purpose
   
32.31   Effective date and enactment of tax
   
32.32   Collection
   
32.33   Interpretation
   
32.34   Use of revenue
 
   
32.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX; USE TAX
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to the
powers granted to the city by the state by SDCL Ch. 10-52, entitled “Uniform
Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law”, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006)
§ 32.02 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business, a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business within the jurisdiction of the city who are subject to the State’s
Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax Act, SDCL Ch. 10-45 and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.03 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage, and consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of
tangible personal property or services purchased from and after January 1,
2006, at the same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all
transactions or use, storage, and consumption which are subject to the state’s
Use Tax Act, SDCL Ch. 10-46 and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
state sales tax and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.05 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL
Ch. 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto and the State Use Tax Act, SDCL Ch. 10-46
and acts amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax
except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006)
MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
§ 32.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal gross receipts tax pursuant to the powers
granted to the municipality by the state by SDCL Ch. 10-52A and acts amendatory
thereto.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 32.31 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2003, there is hereby imposed a municipal gross
receipts tax of 1% upon the gross receipts from the sale of leases or rentals
of hotel, motel, campsites, or other lodging accommodations within the
municipality for periods of less than 28 consecutive days, the sale of
alcoholic beverages as defined in SDCL § 35-1-1, or establishments where the
pubic is invited to eat, dine, or purchase and carry out prepared food for
immediate consumption, or ticket sales or admissions to places of amusement,
athletic, and cultural events, or any combination thereof. The tax applies to
the gross receipts of all persons engaged in business within the jurisdiction
of the city who are subject to the state’s Retail Occupational Sales and
Service Tax Act, SDCL Ch. 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.32 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52A and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
state’s sales tax and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.33 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL
Ch. 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a
similar tax except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 32.34 USE OF REVENUE.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52A and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
state sales tax and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
32.01 through
32.05 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the county jail
for 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL Ch. 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto
and SDCL Ch. 10-46 and acts amendatory thereto are hereby authorized for the
collection of these excise taxes by the Department of Revenue.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
32.30 through
32.34 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined not more than $200. Each day in which a violation of
this code or other ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition, all such collection remedies authorized by SDCL Ch. 10-45 and acts
amendatory thereto are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise
taxes by the Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 282, passed 10-4-2006)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Effective date
   
33.03   Establishment
   
33.04   Appointment of members
   
33.05   Vacancies
   
33.06   Removal of members
   
33.07   Officers
   
33.08   Meetings
   
33.09   Expenditures
   
33.10   Preparation of Comprehensive Plan
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is: to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the city; to appoint a Planning and Zoning Commission,
pursuant to SDCL § 11-6-2, which will make, adopt, amend, extend, add to, or
carry out a general municipal plan of development, referred to as a
Comprehensive Plan; and upon passage of said Comprehensive Plan and
accompanying zoning ordinances, to administer and oversee said ordinance
pursuant to the power given it in SDCL Chapters 11-4 and 11-6.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be 20 days from the date of its
final reading.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be established for the city a Planning and Zoning Commission
with five members. Each member shall be appointed for a five-year term. At its
commencement, two members shall be appointed for a three-year term, and the
remaining members shall be appointed for a five-year term.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the city, and confirmed by the City Council. The Mayor may also
appoint administrative officials of the city to be ex officio members of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.05 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy in the membership of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
filed for the expired term by the Mayor in the same manner and fashion for
appointment.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.06 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Mayor, with the confirmation of the City Council, shall, after public
hearing, have authority to remove any member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission for cause, which said cause shall be stated in writing and made a
part of the record of such hearing.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.07 OFFICERS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect from its members a
Chairperson for a term of one year, and may fill such other of its offices in a
manner prescribed by the rules of the Commission.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.08 MEETINGS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a regular meeting at least
once per month, and shall adopt rules for transaction of its business, and keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations which
shall be a public record.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.09 EXPENDITURES.
   The expenditures of the Planning and Zoning Commission, exclusive of those
made from funds received by gift, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
the purpose by the City Council, which shall provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the Commission’s work.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
§ 33.10 PREPARATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall prepare a Comprehensive Plan for
the approval of the City Council within the law as set forth in SDCL §§ 11-6-14
through 11-6-39, inclusive.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-19-1988)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY SERVICES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   ELECTRIC
      
54.   TELEPHONE
      
55.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITY SERVICES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility service; application required
   
50.02   Utility hookup fees and rates
   
50.03   Service not available to debtors
   
50.04   Termination of service
   
50.05   Customer disputes
   
50.06   Termination after customer disputes
   
50.07   Termination procedures
   
50.08   Provisions for termination of service
   
50.09   Service taps; extensions
   
50.10   Hookup fees
   
50.11   Extension of lines
   
50.12   Private lines
   
50.13   Excavation permits
   
50.14   Excavation requirements
   
50.15   Guarding excavations
   
50.16   Liability of the city
   
50.17   Right of entry
   
50.18   Damage, trespass of equipment
   
50.19   Razing permit
   
50.20   Unlawful use
   
50.21   Violations
§ 50.01 UTILITY SERVICE; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city, shall make
complete service order for the same to the City Finance Office. Such service
order shall include the name and address of the customer for which the service
is requested, as well as any and all other information required. A separate
service order shall be made for each premises to be served. The customer shall
abide by the rules and regulations established by the city relative to the
utility service in effect at the time of such customer and as they may be
revised from time to time in addition to conditions and agreements as the
Council shall deem advisable, and the customer shall pay all such rates and
fees as required, including all costs incurred by the city in collection of
delinquent accounts.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.02 UTILITY HOOKUP FEES AND RATES.
   Initial hookup fees and rates applicable to each utility service shall be
set as the City Council in its discretion shall from time to time declare by
resolution.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.03 SERVICE NOT AVAILABLE TO DEBTORS.
   The city may decline or fail or cease to furnish utility service to any
person who may be in debt to the city for any reason, except ad valorem taxes
and special assessments.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.04 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect any
municipal utility service for the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law;
      (2)   Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility
services;
      (3)   Non-payment of bills;
      (4)   Willful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect
pipes, fixtures, appliances, or otherwise;
      (5)   Tampering with any meter, seal, or other equipment controlling or
regulating the supply of utility service;
      (6)   Theft or diversion and/or use of service without payment therefor;
and/or
      (7)   Vacancy of premises.
   (B)   The city shall give the municipal utility service customer at least
ten days’ notice before termination, a customer may dispute the correctness of
all or a part of the amount shown on the municipal utility bill if all or a
part of the amount shown was the subject of a previous dispute under this
section.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.05 CUSTOMER DISPUTES.
   (A)   The procedure for customer disputes shall be as follows:
      (1)   Before the date of termination, the customer shall notify the City
Finance Officer orally or in writing that the customer disputes all or a part
of the amount shown on the municipal utility bill or the determination that a
violation of this section has occurred giving rights to a termination stating
as completely as possible the basis for the dispute;
      (2)   If the Finance Officer determines that the present dispute is
untimely or invalid pursuant to §
50.04, the Finance Officer shall notify the customer and proceed as if the
customer had not notified the municipal utility of the dispute;
      (3)   If the Finance Officer determines that the present dispute is not
untimely or invalid pursuant to §
50.04 within three days after the receipt of the customer’s notice, the Finance
Officer shall arrange an informal meeting between the customer and the Finance
Officer;
      (4)   Based upon the municipal utility’s records, the customers
allegations, and all other relevant materials available to the official, the
Finance Officer shall resolve the dispute, attempting to do so in a manner
satisfactory to both the municipal utility and the customer;
      (5)   Within five days after the meeting, the Finance Officer shall
notify the customer by telephone and mail to the customer a copy of the Finance
Officer’s decision resolving the dispute;
      (6)   Within five days of receipt of the notice, the customer may
request, in writing, a formal hearing before the City Council;
      (7)   The formal hearing of the City Council shall be held no later than
at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting;
      (8)   At the hearing, the City Council and the customer shall be entitled
to present all evidence that is, in the Council’s view, relevant and material
to the dispute, be represented by counsel, and examine and cross-examine
witnesses. A tape recording of the hearing shall be maintained; and
      (9)   Based upon the record established at the hearing, the Council
shall, within five days of the completion of the hearing, issue its written
decision formally resolving the dispute, which decision shall be final and
binding upon the municipal utility and the customer.
   (B)   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve a customer of
his or her obligation to timely and completely pay all other undisputed
municipal utility charges and the undisputed portions of any amounts subject to
the present dispute. Failure to so pay shall subject the customer to
termination.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.06 TERMINATION AFTER CUSTOMER DISPUTES.
   (A)   Until the date of the Finance Officer’s or the City Council’s
decision, whichever is later, the municipal utility shall not terminate the
utility service of the customer and shall not issue a notice of termination
solely for non-payment of the disputed amounts.
   (B)   If it is determined that the customer must pay some or all of the
disputed amounts, the utility shall promptly mail to, or personally serve upon,
the customer a notice of termination containing the following:
      (1)   Amount to be paid or violation under this section;
      (2)   Date of notice of termination;
      (3)   Date of termination which shall be at ten days after notice; and
      (4)   Notice that unless the municipal utility receives complete payment
of the amount shown, if any, prior to the date of termination, municipal
utility service shall be terminated.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.07 TERMINATION PROCEDURES.
   Except as provided in §
50.05 with respect to disputes, all terminations of municipal utility services
for violations of §
50.03 shall follow these procedures.
   (A)   If, by the payment date shown on the municipal utility bill, complete
payment has not been received by the municipal utility, or other violation of §
50.04 has occurred, the municipal utility shall mail to, or personally serve
upon, the customer a notice of termination containing:
      (1)   The amount to be paid or a statement of violation of §
50.04;
      (2)   The date of the notice of termination;
      (3)   The date of the termination which shall be at least ten days from
the notice of termination; and
      (4)   Notice that unless the municipal utility receives complete payment
of the amount shown, if any, service shall be terminated, or notice that
service shall be terminated for another violation of §
50.04.
   (B)   If prior to the date of termination when the termination is for non-
payment:
      (1)   The municipal utility has not received complete payment of the
amount shown on the notice of termination;
      (2)   The customer has not notified the municipal utility that he or she
disputes the correctness of all or part of the amount shown on the notice of
termination; or
      (3)   If, prior to the date of termination for other violation of §
50.04, the customer has not notified the municipal utility that he or she
disputes the violation, then the municipal utility shall terminate municipal
utility service provided to the customer on the date of termination.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.08 PROVISIONS FOR TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The municipal utility shall terminate service hereunder only during
the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, except no
termination shall be permitted on a legal holiday.
   (B)   At his or her discretion, the City Finance Officer may agree to the
partial payment of at least one-third of the balance of the municipal utility
bill and the customer’s entering into a written agreement to pay the balance
within 60 days. Failure to make payments as agreed shall also be grounds for
termination under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.09 SERVICE TAPS; EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Tapping of any water or sewer main for the purpose of making
connection shall be done only by authorized personnel of the city during
regular business hours. Distribution or collection mains shall be provided, at
the discretion of the City Council, in streets, avenues, or alleys abutting the
property to be served. Water facilities for hookups shall be provided, unless
otherwise specified by the City Council, to the curb line from the distribution
or collection main. Extension of distribution or collection mains shall be only
as specified by the Council in its discretion.
   (B)   Any property owner may petition for a new hookup or connection to any
city utility service line. The City Council, in its discretion, may allow such
connection or hookup. The City Council may refuse any such petition if:
      (1)   In the judgment of the City Utility Foreperson that the city
utility service line(s) to the location set forth in the petition may not
adequately serve such additional customer(s);
      (2)   The petitioner has, within the preceding 12-month period, a history
of unpaid or delinquent utility bills to the city;
      (3)   If such petition is for an additional hookup or connection to a
property currently being served by city utilities and in the judgment of the
City Utility Foreperson that such existing city utilities will adequately serve
the needs, as set forth in the petition, of the petitioner; or
      (4)   Any other issue, as determined by the City Utility Foreperson, that
would make such new hookup or connection unnecessary or detrimental to the city
utilities.
   (C)   The petitioning property owner shall pay the cost for said hookup or
connection from the point it joins the city distribution point at the nearest
main service line. The petitioning property owner must pay the estimated cost
of said hookup or connection prior to such hookup or connection. In the event
that the actual cost of said hookup or connection is greater than the estimated
payment made by the petitioning property owner, then the petitioning property
owner must pay the remaining difference within 15 days of the completion of
said hookup or connection.
   (D)   In the event that the nearest main service line is more than 150 feet
from the customer’s buildings to be served by city water service, the city
shall place such pit and curb stop adjacent to the nearest main service line.
If necessary, the customer shall petition all appropriate government agencies
and/or adjoining property owners for the purpose of obtaining any required
variance, rezoning, easement, or other permits for the placement of such pit
and curb stop.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 HOOKUP FEES.
   (A)   An initial hookup fee as specified by the City Council shall be paid
by all applicants for each utility service connection.
   (B)   The applicant shall also pay all costs, including piping, fixtures,
digging, and appurtenances necessary to produce the connections, as well as the
costs of a qualified assistant making the installation.
   (C)   Payment to the city for utility service hookups shall be paid prior to
turning on such service.
   (D)   All new connections for utility service shall be inspected and
approved by the City Council or its designated agent.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.11 EXTENSION OF LINES.
   The city may extend utility customer lines within and outside the municipal
corporate limits solely at the discretion of the City Council. Said utility
service lines shall be constructed and maintained by the customer, with all
parties connecting onto such lines being regulated and charged connection fees
and other fees as set forth and regulated by the city.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.12 PRIVATE LINES.
   Private utility service equipment and facilities shall not be installed in
the city unless authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.13 EXCAVATION PERMITS.
   For the purposes of utility service connections and/or extensions, no
utility user or consumer shall make or cause to be made any excavation in or
under any street, parking area, sidewalk, alley, or public ground, or remove
any earth, soil, paving, gravel, or material therefrom without having first:
   (A)   Obtained a permit therefor as hereinafter provided. Applications for
such permit shall be made to the City Finance Office, and accompanied by a
deposit in such sum as deemed necessary to ensure the replacement and refilling
of any such excavation or to cover any damages which may be caused to any
street or for replacement of bituminous surfacing. Any unused portion of
deposit shall be refunded to the applicant upon recommendation and approval of
the City Council; and
   (B)   Notifying the state one-call notification center as required by SDCL
Ch. 49-07A.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.14 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavations required for the installation code utility service
facilities shall be open trench work or ditch, unless otherwise approved by the
City Utility Foreperson. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected, and backfilling on city streets, avenues, or alleys shall be
according to approved specifications. City utility personnel shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the
applicant shall notify the Department when the work is ready for final
inspection and the open underground portions are covered.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.15 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   Any utility user or consumer receiving a permit to make excavations in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground shall, during the progress
and continuance of the work, erect and maintain around the same both day and
night suitable guards, fences, flares, and signals so as to prevent injury to
persons, animals, or vehicles on account of such excavations. No open trench
shall be left open for any more time than considered absolutely necessary or
reasonable.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.16 LIABILITY OF THE CITY.
   The city shall not be liable for any damage to the property of any customer
of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewage
system or failure of water supply or any cause outside the direct control of
the city for any utility service provided.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 50.17 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Any person authorized by the city shall have free access at any time to all
premises supplied with utility service by the city for the purpose of
examination in order to protect the utility services from abusive use.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.18 DAMAGE, TRESPASS OF EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not having authority to do so, to
tamper with any utility service facility or apparatus furnished by the city to
consumers, or to in any other way molest, damage, or trespass upon any
equipment or premises belonging to the city connected with any such utility
service.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.19 RAZING PERMIT.
   No person shall raze or remove any building or structure which is connected
to a utility service or disconnect any building or structure from such utility
service without first having obtained a permit therefor from the City Council.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.20 UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person, other than employees of the city, shall be authorized to connect,
turn on, turn off, or disconnect any utility service offered by the city, or
remove, replace, or repair any equipment connected to any such utility service.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.21 VIOLATIONS.
   The city may, in its discretion, notify any person violating any provision
of this title with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time for the correction thereof, but such notice shall
not be necessary for the prosecution of any violators hereof. Any person,
whether receiving such notice or not, violating any provision of this title
shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage, occasioned the
city by reason of such violation. All provisions of this title shall be subject
to applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Water meters
   
51.02   Inspection of meters
   
51.03   Testing meters
   
51.04   Water lines how laid
   
51.05   Water line requirements
   
51.06   Payment of water rates
   
51.07   Reconnection after disconnection
   
51.08   Voluntary discontinuance of service
   
51.09   Interruption of service
   
51.10   Restricting use
   
51.11   Joint water users liable
   
51.12   Use assumed
   
51.13   Priority use of water
   
51.14   Surplus water - sale
   
51.15   Water shortage or emergency declaration
   
51.16   Water shortage or emergency - interruption of sale of surplus water -
other measures
   
51.17   Resale of water
   
51.18   Bulk potable water
   
51.19   Bulk water fees
   
51.20   Outside city customers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATER METERS.
   Water meters shall be installed in all new and existing buildings using city
water service by a licensed plumber or contractor or as otherwise authorized by
the City Utility Foreperson. The City Utility Department shall replace, and
repair, existing household water meters on service lines up to one-inch outside
diameter. The replacement or repair shall be done without cost to property
owners or users, unless occasioned by the property owner’s or user’s
negligence, misuse, or violations of federal, state, or city law, rule,
ordinance, or regulation. The cost of the purchase, replacement, or repair of
water meters on service lines exceeding one-inch outside diameter shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property using city water service. A deposit
in such amount as established by resolution of the City Council from time to
time shall be paid for replacement and repair costs.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.02 INSPECTION OF METERS.
   Any person authorized by the City Council to read water meters or make
inspections shall be allowed free access at all reasonable hours to any
building or premises where water is used. If such persons are not allowed such
access, the city, in its discretion, may estimate the water use, shut off the
water, make additional charges, or take other action not inconsistent with the
law.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.03 TESTING METERS.
   (A)   The owner of property may have his or her meter tested by depositing
with the Finance Officer a sum to cover cost of testing.
   (B)   The party requesting the testing of the meter shall pay the estimated
cost of said testing prior to such testing. In the event that the actual cost
of said testing is greater than the estimated payment made by the requesting
property owner, then the property owner must pay the remaining difference
within 15 days of the completion of said testing.
   (C)   It is provided that should the meter register 102% or over, this sum
will be returned to the property owner, and settlement made on the basis of
over registration of meter; but should the meter be found to register 100% or
less, the sum deposited will not be returned.
   (D)   In case any meter fails to register for any cause, the amount charged
for water during such period shall be estimated by the Finance Officer, such
estimate to be based on the average amount registered during a like period.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.04 WATER LINES HOW LAID.
   (A)   All service lines shall be at least six feet below the established
grade of the street, avenue, or alley in which they shall be laid, and in all
places at least six feet below the surface of the ground.
   (B)   All plumbing fixtures, piping, or apparatus shall be installed with
such material as to withstand safely the perils surrounding their conditions of
operation and use.
   (C)   For any installation, hookup, or connection in which the service line
does not enter the building inside a basement or other suitable below ground
connection point, the customer shall provide a suitable place for a frost-free
pit for a meter placed on the customer’s property; it shall be unobstructed and
accessible at all times for reading. The cost of any such pit shall be paid by
the customer as provided in §
50.09.
   (D)   The customer shall be responsible for having the service line and
meter installed in accordance with the city’s specifications by a licensed
plumber or plumbing contractor. The customer will obtain the meter and meter
pit from the city; all other materials will be furnished by the customer or his
or her plumber or plumbing contractor and shall be in accordance with the
city’s specifications. The cost of the meter and meter pit to customer shall be
the actual cost to the city plus 10%.
   (E)   No water main or service may be laid in the same trench with gas mains
or other foreign conduits. Special permission may be granted, however, when
deemed advisable by the City Council, for laying of water lines in trenches
with sewer lines, and then only with the placement of water lines well above
sewer lines to prevent subsequent possible contamination of water mains.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.05 WATER LINE REQUIREMENTS.
   All water mains shall be equal to or exceeding at least six-inch PVC (class
200) with gasketed joints, service lines shall be a minimum of one inch equal
to PVC Class 200. Fire hydrants shall be six inches, unless otherwise approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.06 PAYMENT OF WATER RATES.
   (A)   All meters shall be read on or before the nineteenth day of each month
and billed by the city on the first day of the following month. All billed
amounts shall be paid by the customer in accordance with such rules and
regulations governing the same as shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Failure of property owners to comply with the time of payment of water
bills shall subject them to be shut off from water service in accordance with §
50.04. Rates for water service shall be set as the City Council in its
discretion shall, from time to time, declare by resolution.
   (C)   The property owner shall be primarily responsible for the payment of
all charges arising out of the use of water at his or her premises, or any
other charges provided for in Chapters
50 and
51 and assessed by the City Council. Such charges shall constitute a perpetual
lien and continuing lien upon such property until paid in full, and no water
shall be furnished to any property against which any charge hereunder remains
unpaid.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.07 RECONNECTION AFTER DISCONNECTION.
   In the event that any water service is disconnected for non-payment of a
bill, every property owner shall have the right to have the same reconnected
only upon the payment of the amount due, and in addition to a reconnection fee.
Such fee shall be determined by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.08 VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Persons wishing to discontinue the use of any water service shall give a
five-day notice thereof to the Finance Officer. Failure to do so shall render
them liable for the payment of all bills until such notice has been given.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.09 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The users of any water service furnished by the city are hereby notified
that the supply of such utility may be temporarily shut off at any time. Notice
shall be given, if feasible, of the contemplated shutoff, but accidents may
render this impossible; hence the city hereby warns those dependent upon the
utility service for any purpose of this hazard. Immediately upon finding the
supply shutoff it becomes the duty of the occupant of the premises to take
prompt precautions to prevent damages.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.10 RESTRICTING USE.
   (A)   The city hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent
the use of any water service furnished by the city during periods of emergency
or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
   (B)   Water shall be used only for beneficial purposes and shall never be
wasted. The right is reserved to suspend the use of sprinklers and hoses for
watering lawns, yards, and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the City
Council, a public emergency exists.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 JOINT WATER USERS LIABLE.
   In case two or more users are supplied with water from the same service
pipe, if any of the parties fail to pay the water charge when due, or to comply
with any rule of the city, the city reserves the right to cut off the water
from the whole service until such charge is paid or the rules strictly complied
with, and it is expressly stipulated that no claim for damage or otherwise may
be made against said city by any user whose water charge has been paid, or who
has complied with the rules of said city, because of such turn off, it being
expressly stipulated that the necessity for such turn off shall be deemed to be
the joint act of all served through such service.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.12 USE ASSUMED.
   All premises connected to any water service of the city shall be assumed to
be using such service and the owner or occupant shall be charged therefor as
long as such premises shall remain connected to the water service of the city.
(Ord. 308, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.13 PRIORITY USE OF WATER.
   The City Council hereby finds that the principal purpose of the city’s water
distribution system is to provide adequate water supply for the human
consumption, sanitation, fire protection needs, and commercial use of the
residents of the City of Faith and businesses located within the city limits of
the City of Faith. Water consumed outside the city limits is not entitled to
any priority.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.14 SURPLUS WATER - SALE.
   (A)   Subject to subsection (B) of this section and other provisions of this
chapter, water, if any, may be made available for sale to bulk water customers
for use or consumption outside the city limits of the City of Faith.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the City Council
may by resolution restrict, interrupt, decrease, or terminate the sale of water
for use or consumption outside the city limits of the City of Faith whenever
the City Council determines it is in the best interests of the city to do so.
Such action shall only be taken upon a legislative finding by the City Council
that such action is in the best interest of the city. If practicable, the city
will give 30 days’ notice to the public and affected bulk water customers of
action taken under this subsection, but the failure to give such advance notice
will not render the restriction, interruption, decrease, or termination
ineffective, nor will it give rise to any claim or action against the city.
   (C)   As used in this section, “surplus water” is water that the city, in
its sole discretion, determines is in excess of the human consumption,
sanitation, fire protection, and commercial demands of water consumers for
consumption within the city limits of the City of Faith.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.15 WATER SHORTAGE OR EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   (A)   A water shortage may be declared by the City Council, in its
discretion, after a public hearing and upon adoption of a finding that there is
insufficient water available to meet the human consumption, sanitation, fire
protection, and commercial consumption needs of water consumers located within
the city limits of the City of Faith, or when there is insufficient surplus
water available to meet the demands of all bulk water customers and others for
use or consumption outside the city limits of the City of Faith. Examples of
circumstances that may justify the declaration of a water shortage include, but
are not limited to, increased demand for water resulting from new development
or population increases; low water levels in the reservoir or other water
supply deficiencies; malfunction of the water system; increased demand from
bulk water customers or consumers located within or outside the city limits of
the City of Faith; or any other cause or circumstances that render the output
of the City of Faith water system inadequate to meet the demands.
   (B)   The Mayor may, in his or her discretion, declare a water emergency of
not to exceed 15 days, and the City Council may, in its discretion, declare a
water emergency of not to exceed 30 days without a public hearing, or of any
length after a public hearing, upon adoption of a finding that sudden or
unanticipated causes have impaired or pose imminent threat of impairment of the
city’s ability to meet the ordinary current demands of all consumers or
purchasers of city water. Examples of circumstances that may justify the
declaration of a water emergency include, but are not limited to, disaster;
actual or imminent threat of malfunction or breakdown of dams, water treatment
facilities, mains, distribution lines, pumps, storage tanks, or any other
component of the water system; actual or imminent threat of contamination of
the water supply; or injury or imminent threat of injury to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.16 WATER SHORTAGE OR EMERGENCY - INTERRUPTION OF SALE OF SURPLUS WATER -
OTHER MEASURES.
   (A)   If a water shortage or water emergency is declared, the city shall
first restrict, decrease, interrupt, or terminate the sale of surplus water to
bulk water customers and others for use or consumption outside the city limits
of the City of Faith as and to the extent the city, in its sole discretion,
deems appropriate in response to the water shortage or water emergency. In
addition, the city may take any other measures that the city determines, in its
sole discretion, are necessary to alleviate or otherwise address the water
shortage or water emergency, including, but not limited to, allocating water
necessary for the first priority uses identified in §
51.13 and establishing secondary priorities and allocations for the remaining
water, without discrimination between consumers located within the city limits
using water for the same purpose or purposes.
   (B)   Any measures adopted in response to a declared water shortage or water
emergency shall, for the duration of the period of the declared shortage or
emergency, prevail over any conflicting provisions of law establishing rights
of persons to receive specific or proportionate amounts of the water supply
available for distribution within the city limits or otherwise.
   (C)   Any measures adopted in response to a declared water shortage or water
emergency shall be made available for public inspection and copying at the City
Finance office for the duration of the period of the declared shortage or
emergency. As soon as practical after the adoption of such measures, notice of
the measures shall also be published once a week for two consecutive weeks in
the official newspaper in the city, unless the duration of the declared
shortage or emergency ends sooner.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.17 RESALE OF WATER.
   No person shall resell water provided by the city water system to any
person, business or other entity located outside the city limits of the City of
Faith.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 BULK POTABLE WATER.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions and restrictions of this chapter, any
individual, company, corporation, or entity who wishes to obtain bulk water
from the City of Faith must first obtain written authorization from the City
Finance Officer or designee by first completing an application provided by the
city.
   (B)   Any individual, company, corporation, or entity who wishes to obtain
bulk water from the City of Faith must comply with cross-contamination and
backflow requirements.
   (C)   Bulk potable water will only be available at designated hydrant
location(s) determined by the City of Faith.
   (D)   Bulk potable water will be metered by city issued meters only.
   (E)   Bulk potable water may be used either inside or outside the corporate
city limits.
   (F)   Bulk potable water is only permitted to be sold to:
      (1)   An individual purchaser for his/her household use or the household
use of his/her immediate family;
      (2)   An individual, a family farm, or a family farm corporation
purchaser (SDCL Chpt. 47-9A) for agricultural and farming/ranching purposes on
such purchaser’s agricultural land;
      (3)   Licensed applicators (SDCL Chpt. 38-21) or licensed aerial
applicators (as defined in ARSD 70:02:02);
      (4)   Licensed well drillers (SDCL Title 46);
      (5)   Licensed contractors for purposes of the installation or
maintenance of telecommunications or electric transmission lines;
      (6)   Fire protection.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.19 BULK WATER FEES.
   Rates for bulk water shall be set as the City Council in its discretion
shall from time to time declare by resolution.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.20 OUTSIDE CITY CUSTOMERS.
   In the discretion of the City Council, users of the City of Faith water
system located outside of city limits may be charged more for operation,
maintenance, and equipment replacement costs than those users inside the city
limits. Additional charges to users outside the city limits may be charged for
debt retirement, capital improvements, and other costs not readily
apportionable according to wastewater flow and strength.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual, company, corporation, or entity not in compliance with the
terms and provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $50.00 or more than $1,000.00.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Sewer Use Charges
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Total annual cost of operating and maintenance
   
52.04   User’s wastewater contribution percentage
   
52.05   Surcharge system
   
52.06   User’s wastewater service charge and payment
   
52.07   Transfer of funds
   
52.08   Effective date
   
52.09   Sewer rate calculations
Regulation of Sewer Use
   
52.20   Definitions
   
52.21   Use of the public sewers
   
52.22   Sanitary sewers, building sewers, and connections
   
52.23   Damaging equipment
   
52.24   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.25   Effective date
   
52.26   Contract for sewage treatment
   
52.27   Bulk users of wastewater
   
52.28   Outside city customers
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SEWER USE CHARGES
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CITY. The City of Faith, South Dakota in Meade County.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENGINEER or CITY ENGINEER. A registered engineer authorized to practice
engineering and registered in the state.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See also the definition for SHALL
below.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   P.P.M. Parts per million equivalent to milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven-
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
(See the definition for WASTEWATER below.)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See also the definition for MAY
above.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent, operator of, or trustee whose area of
responsibility has been assigned to oversee wastewater facilities and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE
RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to repeal previous rate
structures and to establish methods and procedures to establish rate schedules
which generate sufficient revenue to pay all costs for the operation,
maintenance, and debt retirement of the complete wastewater collection and
treatment facilities.
   (B)   The costs shall be distributed to all users of the wastewater system
in proportion to each user’s contribution to the total loading of the treatment
facility. Factors such as strength BOD and SS, volume, and delivery flow rate
characteristics shall be considered and included as the basis for the user’s
contribution to ensure a proportional distribution of operation and maintenance
cost to each class of user.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.03 TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city or its City Engineer shall determine the total annual costs
of operation and maintenance of the wastewater collection and treatment
facility which are necessary to maintain the capacity and performance during
the service life of the complete facility.
   (B)   The total annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but
not be limited to, labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, power,
sampling, laboratory tests, reasonable contingency fund, billing, and debt
retirement.
   (C)   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s or class of user’s proportionate share of
the annual cost not less often than once every two years and will revise the
system as necessary to assure equity of the user rates and surcharges, and that
there is sufficient funds to adequately operate and maintain the complete
facility.
   (D)   If a significant user, such as an industry, is added or dropped from
or alters his or her wastewater discharge, the city shall review the total
annual costs and his or her percentage of contribution to them and revise the
rates accordingly.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.04 USER’S WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   The city or its City Engineer shall determine each user’s or class of
user’s average daily volume of wastewater. The user’s volume of wastewater
shall then be divided by the total volume of wastewater to determine each
user’s volume contribution percentage. The amount used as the total average
daily volume of wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow.
   (B)   The city or its City Engineer shall determine each user’s or class of
user’s average daily poundage of BOD. The user’s average BOD shall be divided
by the total BOD of the system to determine each user’s BOD contribution
percentage.
   (C)   The city or its City Engineer shall determine each user’s or class of
user’s average daily poundage of SS. The user’s average SS shall be divided by
the total SS of the system to determine each user’s SS contribution percentage.
   (D)   Each user’s or class of user’s volume contribution percentage, BOD
contribution percentage, and SS contribution percentage shall be multiplied by
the annual operation and maintenance costs for the complete wastewater
facility’s total volume flow, BOD, and SS respectively.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.05 SURCHARGE SYSTEM.
   The city or its City Engineer will determine the average BOD and SS for the
average residential user. The city shall assess a surcharge rate for all non-
residential users discharging wastewater with BOD and SS strengths greater than
the average residential user. Such users or class of users will be assessed a
surcharge sufficient to cover the costs of treating such users above normal
strength wastewater. Normal strength wastes are considered to be 200 p.p.m. BOD
and 250 p.p.m. SS.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.06 USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Each user’s or class of user’s wastewater treatment cost
contributions as determined in §§
52.04 and
52.05 shall be added together to determine such user’s annual wastewater
service charge.
      (2)   Residential users may be considered to be one class of user and an
equitable service charge may be determined for each other class of user based
upon an estimate of the total wastewater contribution by this class of user.
      (3)   The city may classify industrial, commercial, and other non-
residential establishments as a residential user, provided that the wastewater
from these establishments are equivalent to the wastes from the average
residential user with respect to volume, SS, and BOD.
   (B)   The city shall submit an annual statement to the user for the user’s
annual wastewater service charge. The user’s annual wastewater service charge
shall be divided in 12 monthly charges and billed with other services.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Sufficient funds shall be transferred from the operation and maintenance
account for the wastewater system to the General Fund to replace funds used
during the construction of the project.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, recording, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.09 SEWER RATE CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Estimated annual operation and maintenance costs.
 
Operation               Cost
Administration          $0
Labor                   $2,500
Materials and repair    $1,000
Sampling and monitoring $100
Contingency             $360
TOTAL                   $3,960 per year
 
   (B)   Estimated replacement costs for system.
Description Cost
Description                          Cost
Piping (assume 22,000 L.F. at $15)   $330,000
Manholes (assume 10 at $1,000)       $10,000
Lagoon (assume 450,000 at $0.20)     $90,000
SUBTOTAL                             $430,000
CONTINGENCY (10%)                    $43,000
TOTAL                                $473,000
Assume useful life of 50 years; thus $9,460 per year
 
   (C)   Current average flow per residence.
 
80 gpcd x 30 days per month x 575 people / 275 households = 5,018 gallons per
month per house
Use 5,000 gallons per month per house
 
   (D)   Current flow from other users.
 
Description                           Flow Amount (Gallons)
Total water used for average month    1,513,000
Average residential use (4,500 x 275) 1,237,500
Non-residential use                   275,500
 
   (E)   Monthly water use costs.
 
Monthly O and M replacement (total) 1,118
                                    = 0.74
Monthly water usage (total)         1,513,000 / 1,000 gallons
                                   Use 0.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (F)   Monthly rate schedule.
 
Residence 5,000 gallons per month per household x Use $3.75
0.75 / 1,000 gallons
Non-residence (same as residence up to 5,000      Use $3.75
gallons)
Additional usage for non-residence over 5,000     Use $0.50 per 1,000 gallons
gallons
 
   (G)   Annual revenue.
 
Residential and non-residential up to 5,000 gallons            
275 residences x $3.75 per month per residence x 12 months    $12,375
Non-residential over usage                                     
275,000 gallons per month x $0.50 / 1,000 gallons x 12 months $1,650
TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE                                          $14,025
 
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987; Res. 04-07-87-01, passed 4-7-1987)
REGULATION OF SEWER USE
§ 52.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See also the definition for SHALL
below.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven-
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
(See definition for WASTEWATER below.)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See also the definition for MAY
above.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE
RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.21 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited
area, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent and the appropriate state
agency.
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under §
52.24(A) and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent and the State Department of
Health. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works. Each user which
discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing
the effluent or the sludge of the city treatment works shall pay for such
increased costs; and/or
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, milk containers, and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any municipal system, the
wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set limitations
lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or
her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations
or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters
discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval
of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
52.20). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any water or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug
as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and the State
Department of Health.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in
division (D)(3) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units, all interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent and the State Plumbing Code, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material
and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject
to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalization facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner(s) of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater’s discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality; and
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS, AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city and state. In the absence of
suitable code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F.
Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent and the State Department of Health for purposes of disposal of
polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city and the state, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charges of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this subchapter.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, recording, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 52.26 CONTRACT FOR SEWAGE TREATMENT.
   The City of Faith may enter into a contract with individuals or commercial
entities for the purpose of treating or disposing of private sewage or
industrial waste originating within the municipality or within ten miles of the
corporate limits of the municipality, if the plant has the capacity to handle
the sewage or industrial waste.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 52.27 BULK USERS OF WASTEWATER.
   All bulk users of wastewater services provided by the City of Faith, shall
be governed by all rules, regulations and ordinances in effect within the City
concerning the same, and shall be charged the rate as determined and set by the
Faith City Council.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 52.28 OUTSIDE CITY CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   All users who are located outside the city limits of the City of Faith
shall pay alt regular wastewater charges plus an additional surcharge of 25%
for all fees including tap, connection, pretreatment and user fees.
   (B)   The City reserves the right to refuse sewer service to any area
outside the city.
   (C)   Any developer or land owner who anticipates undertaking any project
outside the city limits of the city which would require a connection to the
city sewer system shall first obtain the approval of the City Council prior to
any engineering design work concerning the sewer system.
   (D)   After receiving approval, the developer and the developer’s engineer
shall work closely with the city engineer for the city sewer system during the
design, construction and inspection stages of the development. Such systems
shall also have the approval of the city engineer regarding the as-built system
prior to connection.
   (E)   Any developer who falls to obtain such prior approval shall not be
allowed to connect to the city sewer system.
(Ord. 329, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.23 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 213, passed 4-7-1987)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC
Section
   
53.01   Applicable regulations
   
53.02   Deposits, fees, and rates
   
53.03   Termination of service
   
53.04   Responsibility of electrical users
§ 53.01 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The general provisions of
Chapter 50 shall apply to electrical service, use, and maintenance where
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8.0401)
§ 53.02 DEPOSITS, FEES, AND RATES.
   All deposits, fees, rates, and all other charges shall be set by resolution
of the City Council from time to time as required.
(Prior Code, § 8.0402)
§ 53.03 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The provisions of §
50.04 shall govern the termination of electrical services.
(Prior Code, § 8.0403)
§ 53.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF ELECTRICAL USERS.
   Unless otherwise provided for by agreement, electrical users shall keep,
maintain, repair, and be responsible for all wiring, connections, apparatus,
and appurtenances used in connection to electrical services beyond the point of
the overhead or underground line furnished by the city to the user’s property
line, excluding the meter, which shall remain the property of the city and
which shall be maintained by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0404)
CHAPTER 54: TELEPHONE
Section
   
54.01   Applicable regulations
   
54.02   Deposits, fees, and rates
   
54.03   Termination of service
§ 54.01 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The general provisions of Chapter 50 shall apply to telephone service, use,
and maintenance where applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8.0501)
§ 54.02 DEPOSITS, FEES, AND RATES.
   All deposits, fees, rates, and all other charges for telephone service shall
be set by resolution of the City Council from time to time as required.
(Prior Code, § 8.0502)
§ 54.03 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The provisions of §
50.04 shall govern the termination of telephone services.
(Prior Code, § 8.0503)
CHAPTER 55: GARBAGE
Section
   
55.01   Collection
   
55.02   Garbage defined
   
55.03   Pickup and dump ground rules and regulations
   
55.04   Prohibited activities
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The city will maintain and operate a solid waste disposal or dump site
and a garbage pickup service. The city shall charge and collect fees for the
pickup service as follows:
Garbage Pickup Fee
Garbage Pickup                        Fee
Unoccupied residence or business/pole $11.75
Normal residence                      $21.00
Heavy residence                       $32.00
Home occupational                     $27.00
Light commercial                      $27.00
Normal commercial                     $39.00
Heavy commercial                      $68.00
 
   (B)   Failure to pay the established fee shall constitute grounds for
termination of the pickup service.
(Prior Code, § 3.0201) (Res. 02-10-15-01, passed - -2015)
§ 55.02 GARBAGE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes, but not limited to, items commonly referred to as
“trash”, non-putrescible water, putrescible wastes, and unwanted or discarded
waste materials and rubbish. GARBAGE shall not include bulky refuse either too
large or heavy to be conveniently and efficiently loaded in garbage collection
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3.0202)
§ 55.03 PICKUP AND DUMP GROUND RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city shall, from time to time, establish by resolution such rules and
regulations as shall be required governing the collection of garbage and
operation of the solid waste disposal or dump site, including, but not limited
to, rules and regulations with respect to depositing garbage at the dump site.
(Prior Code, § 3.0203) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to discard any dead animal at the dump site.
(Prior Code, § 3.0204) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any of the
rules and regulations promulgated by resolution of the City Council in respect
to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and
imprisonment. In respect to violations of ordinances or rules and regulations
established by resolution pertaining to the pickup and collection of garbage,
each instance shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.0205)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Police to direct traffic
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Persons riding bicycles, motorcycles, or animals
Certificate of Title
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Issuance; damage disclosure statement
Recreational Vehicles
   
70.30   Golf carts
   
70.31   Snowmobiles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of any Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal department or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police or the City Council.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the extension
of curb and property lines at intersections, or any other portion of a roadway
clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the extension of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle whether or not such street or
highway crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway or street otherwise then temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs and signals.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 6.0101)
§ 70.02 POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of the City Police Department to enforce the provision
of this title. Officers are hereby authorized to investigate accidents and to
carry out all duties specifically covered by this title, and to direct all
traffic either in person or by means of visible or audible signals in
conformance with the provisions of this title, provided that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expediate traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers may direct traffic, as conditions may require.
(Prior Code, § 6.0102)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer, or refuse to submit to
any lawful inspection or fail to comply with the provisions or requirements of
any warning ticket issued by the police under this title.
(Prior Code, § 6.0103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, OR ANIMALS.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal upon a roadway, and every person
driving any animal, shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable
to the operator of any vehicle, except those provisions of this title with
reference to the equipment of vehicles and except those provisions which by
their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 6.0104) Penalty, see §
70.99
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used or maintained for the
transportation of persons or property for hire, compensation, or profit, or
designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property, and
not specifically excluded under SDCL § 32-9-3.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, other
than a tire, having a vehicle identification number.
   DEALER. Any person who, for commission or with intent to make a profit or
gain, sells, exchanges, rents with option to purchase, offers or attempts to
negotiate a sale or exchange of new, or new and used vehicles, or who is
engaged wholly or in part in the business of selling new, or new and used
vehicles, whether or not such vehicles are owned by that person.
   DEPARTMENT. Department of Revenue and Regulation.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
loaded weight of a single vehicle.
   JUNKING CERTIFICATE. A certificate of ownership, which may not be restored
to a title document which allows highway use, issued by the Department to the
owner of a vehicle which is going to be dismantled and sold for parts.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length in the
traveling mode, or is 320 or more square feet when erected on a site; which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities; and
which contains the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
therein. The term includes any structure which meets all the requirements of
this definition and any other structure which has been certified by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person, firm, corporation, limited liability company, or
association engaged in the manufacture of new motor vehicles as a regular
business.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
      (1)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or telescoped
when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional cubic capacity;
and
      (2)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle equipped with two or three wheels. If a
combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor displacement shall be 50
cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers in such power source.
The power source shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions
directly or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the
operator after the drive system is engaged.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. All vehicles or machines, trailers, semitrailers,
recreational vehicles, truck tractors, road tractors, and motorcycles propelled
by any power other than muscular and used upon the public highways for the
transportation of persons or property, or both except traction engines, road
rollers, farm wagons, freight trailers, vehicles that run only on rails or
tracks, and off-road vehicles as defined in SDCL § 32-20-1.
   MOTORCYCLE. Includes motorcycles, motorbikes, mopeds, bicycles with motor
attached, and all motor-operated vehicles of the bicycle or tricycle type,
whether the motive power be a part thereof or attached thereto, and having a
saddle or seat with the driver sitting astride or upon it, or a platform on
which the driver stands, but excluding a tractor.
   NEW MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle to which a manufacturer’s statement of
origin has not been transferred, or is a motor vehicle on which title was
issued from the manufacturer’s statement of origin or manufacturer’s
certificate of origin and is still in the name of the first person who took
title to the vehicle.
   NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not classified as a
commercial motor vehicle.
   NONCOMMERCIAL TRAILER OR SEMITRAILER. Any trailer or semitrailer not used or
maintained for the transportation of persons or property for hire,
compensation, or profit.
   NOTATION. A physical or electronic process of recording a lien on a
certificate of title, a manufacturer’s statement of origin, or a manufacturer’s
certificate of origin.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, two or more wheeled vehicle designed
primarily to be operated on land other than a highway and includes, but is not
limited to, all-terrain vehicles, dune buggies, and any vehicle whose
manufacturer’s statement of origin (MSO) or manufacturer’s certificate of
origin (MCO) states that the vehicle is not for highway use. OFF-ROAD VEHICLE
does not include a farm vehicle as defined in this section.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association, or corporation renting a motor vehicle
or having the exclusive use thereof, under a lease or otherwise, for a period
greater than 30 days; as between contract vendor and contract vendee, the term
OWNER shall refer to the contract vendee, unless the contrary clearly appears
from the context of SDCL Chs. 32-3 to 32-5B, inclusive, or a person having
legal possession or title.
   REBUILT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that has been
rebuilt by the addition or deletion of assemblies, subassemblies, parts, or
component parts so that upon gross visual examination it does not appear to be
the vehicle described in the certificate of title last issued for the vehicle,
or whose title has been marked as “rebuilt” by this state or another state or
jurisdiction.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation uses, permanently identified as “travel trailer” by the manufacturer
of the trailer.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, except farm or logging tractors used exclusively for farming or
logging, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   SECRETARY. Secretary of Revenue and Regulation.
   SEMITRAILER. Any vehicle of the trailer type, equipped with a kingpin
assembly, designed and used in conjunction with a fifth wheel connecting device
on a motor vehicle constructed so that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   STATE. Includes the territories and the federal districts of the United
States.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying property or
passengers wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   USED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle to which title has been issued to someone
other than the first person who took title to the motor vehicle from the
manufacturer’s statement of origin or manufacturer’s certificate of origin.
   VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER. The number assigned by the manufacturer or by
the Department for the purpose of identifying the vehicle. The term includes
any number or letters assigned by the manufacturer for the purpose of
identifying a component part and any such number stamped on a vehicle or part
according to law or the rules promulgated by the Department for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle or part.
§ 70.16 ISSUANCE; DAMAGE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon the sale, transfer, or trade-in of a motor vehicle, or if
licensing a motor vehicle in the state which is titled in another state or
jurisdiction, the seller, transferor, trader, or person wishing to license in
the state the motor vehicle which is titled in another state or jurisdiction
shall submit an accurately completed damage disclosure statement when applying
for a certificate of title pursuant to SDCL § 32-3-18. The completed damage
disclosure statement may be on the back of the certificate of title or on a
separate document that has been approved for use by the Department. Except as
otherwise provided by this section, no certificate of title may be issued by
the Department unless the damage disclosure statement accompanies the
application. It is a Class 1 misdemeanor to intentionally falsify any
information on the damage disclosure statement. No person or dealer is liable
to a subsequent owner of a vehicle because a prior owner of the vehicle failed
to disclose that the vehicle had previously been damaged and repaired. This
section does not apply to motor vehicles more than six model years old or with
a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 16,000 pounds and does not apply if
a rebuilt title or junking certificate is sought.
   (B)   This section does apply to all other motor vehicles, but only damage
in excess of $5,000 shall be disclosed in the statement. If the motor vehicle
has incurred damages more than once, only those damages which occurred at one
time would be considered in determining whether the damages exceeded $5,000.
Penalty, see §
70.99
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 70.30 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOLF CART. A four-wheeled vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   (B)   Requirements. The city hereby permits the use of golf carts on the
municipal streets of the city, subject to the following:
      (1)   The golf cart is to be insured;
      (2)   The person operating the golf cart shall hold a valid driver’s
license;
      (3)   The person operating the golf cart shall obtain a permit from the
city to operate the golf cart on municipal streets (the fee for said permit
shall be $5); and
      (4)   The golf cart shall be required to display a slow-moving vehicle
emblem in accordance with SDCL § 32-15-20 or a white or amber warning light in
accordance with SDCL § 32-17-46.
   (C)   Prohibitions. No person may operate a golf cart on a state or county
highway except for crossing from one side of the highway to the other. A golf
cart may cross the highway at a right angle, but only after stopping and
yielding the right-of-way to all approaching traffic and crossing as closely as
possible to an intersection or approach.
(Ord. 295, passed 6-22-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 SNOWMOBILES.
   Any person operating a snowmobile in the city shall observe all applicable
regulations of this title pertaining to motor vehicles. In addition, night
driving shall be prohibited unless entering or leaving the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.0105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to abide by either §
70.30(B) or (C) shall be deemed a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 295, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Driver’s license required
   
71.02   Age of operator
   
71.03   Drive on right side of street
   
71.04   Vehicles shall not be driven on sidewalk
   
71.05   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
71.06   Backing around corners or into intersection prohibited
   
71.07   Reckless driving
   
71.08   Careless driving
   
71.09   Exhibition driving
   
71.10   Careless driving, reckless driving, and exhibition driving prohibited
   
71.11   Right-of-way at intersection
   
71.12   U-turn at intersection
   
71.13   Right-of-way; left turn
   
71.14   Turning around in mid-block prohibited
   
71.15   Required condition of vehicles
   
71.16   Action required at stop sign
   
71.17   Action required at yield sign
   
71.18   Obedience to traffic signs and signals
   
71.19   Stop required before entering from alley, building, or private road
   
71.20   Pedestrian’s right-of-way
   
71.21   Speed limits
   
71.22   Jake Brake prohibition
   
71.23   Motorized vehicle or equipment use on city property
Cross-reference:
   General Provisions, see
Chapter 70
   Parking, see
Chapter 72
   Parking Schedules, see
Chapter 73
§ 71.01 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate upon any of the
streets or highways within the city any motor vehicle without first having
secured and having in his or her possession a valid license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6.0201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 AGE OF OPERATOR.
   No person under the age of 16 years shall operate a motor vehicle upon the
streets of the city unless such person is accompanied by the owner of the motor
vehicle being operated, or is the holder of a restricted driving permit issued
by the state.
(Prior Code, § 6.0202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF STREET.
   Upon all streets the operator of a vehicle shall drive the same upon the
right half of the street and shall drive a slow-moving vehicle as closely as
possible to the right-hand edge or curb of a street unless it is impractical to
travel on such side of the street, and except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle subject to the limitations applicable to overtaking and passing
set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.0203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6.0204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles,
giving audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle, the operator of every
other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position as near as
possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of
any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles shall have passed, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow (closer than 500 feet) any fire apparatus, or to
park any vehicle within the block where such fire apparatus has stopped to
answer a fire alarm. It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
to drive over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent
of authorized personnel.
(Prior Code, § 6.0205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 BACKING AROUND CORNERS OR INTO INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back such vehicle
around a corner at an intersection or into an intersection of public streets.
(Prior Code, § 6.0206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street, avenue, or alley carelessly
and heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or without due
caution, and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 6.0207) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle carelessly and without due caution, at a
speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or property, not amounting to
reckless driving as defined in §
71.07, shall be guilty of careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 6.0208) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle within the limits of the city in such a
manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid or
slide upon acceleration or stopping; or that simulates a temporary race, or
that causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or away, shall be guilty
of exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 6.0209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 CARELESS DRIVING, RECKLESS DRIVING, AND EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as constitutes
careless driving, reckless driving, or exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 6.0210) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION.
   The right-of-way rule as between vehicles at intersections is hereby
declared as follows.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has fully entered the intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles approach an intersection at approximately the same
time, the operator of the vehicle at the left shall yield the right-of-way to
the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6.0211) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 U-TURN AT INTERSECTION.
   At any intersection where warned by a traffic control sign displaying the
words “No U-Turn”, it shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to turn
such vehicle at the intersection in a half circle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 6.0212) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 RIGHT-OF-WAY; LEFT TURN.
   The operator of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the
left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said operator, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the operators of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 6.0213) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 TURNING AROUND IN MID-BLOCK PROHIBITED.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to park in the
opposite direction or so as to proceed in the opposite direction except at an
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 6.0214) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 REQUIRED CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle having a loud or offensive muffler shall be considered illegal.
Any vehicle not equipped with adequate brakes shall be prohibited from
operating in the city. Any motor vehicle operated within the city shall be
equipped with lights, windshield wipers, and a horn as required by state law.
License plates shall be clearly displayed on each end of a vehicle, and shall
be kept clean and legible.
(Prior Code, § 6.0215) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 ACTION REQUIRED AT STOP SIGN.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every operator of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated
by a stop sign shall come to a full stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the operator shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle which has entered or is approaching the intersection from
another roadway and shall not proceed into the intersection until certain that
such intersecting roadway is free from oncoming traffic which may affect safe
passage.
(Prior Code, § 6.0216) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 ACTION REQUIRED AT YIELD SIGN.
   The operator of a vehicle approaching a sign authorized by the City Council
bearing the work “Yield” or “Yield Right-of-Way” shall in obedience to such
sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall stop
if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which such operator is driving, and to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard. Said operator having so yielded may proceed and the
operators of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the
vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 6.0217) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
official traffic sign or signal upon the street placed by the City Council,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 6.0218) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.19 STOP REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, OR PRIVATE ROAD.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within a business or residence area shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across such alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where said operator has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6.0219) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.20 PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by police officers or traffic control signals.
Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any intersection
to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and pass
such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6.0220) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle on a street or highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing or at those fixed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.0301)
   (B)   Speed zones; establishment. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a
speed in excess of 15 mph while passing through a school zone, or while
traveling upon any street on or across which children are passing going to and
from school during school days when such school children are present.
(Prior Code, § 6.0302)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 JAKE BRAKE PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the excessive,
loud, unusual, or explosive use of engine and compressed air-braking devices
within the city.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A “Dynamic Brake”, “Jake Brake”, “Jacobs Brake”,
“C-Brake”, “Paccar Brake”, transmission brake, or any other ENGINE RETARDING
BRAKE system that alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (C)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
use or operate or cause to be used or operated within the city any engine
brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud,
unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle, unless such use is necessary to
avoid imminent danger.
   (D)   Signage. Signs stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” or “Engine Brake
Ordinance Enforced” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the
City Public Works Department or the Police Department to advise motorists of
the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating
“Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” or “Engine Brake Ordinance Enforced” shall be
installed on a state highway without a permit from the State Department of
Transportation. The provisions of this section shall be in full force and
effect even if no signs are installed.
   (E)   Exceptions. Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of
this section.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section is deemed to be a county infraction. It
shall be enforced pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Adoption. This section will take effect 20 days following its final
publication.
(Ord. 312, passed 5-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.23 MOTORIZED VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT USE ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit damage caused by
unauthorized vehicles to city property.
   (B)   Definitions.
      CITY PROPERTY. All property owned and/or maintained by the City of Faith,
including but not limited to city buildings, city sporting venues, city golf
course, city shooting range, city lots, city docks, city fences, or other city
property.
      UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. For the purpose of this section, unauthorized
vehicles shall be defined as any titled or untitled motorized vehicle or
equipment, including but not limited to motor vehicles, motorcycles, ATVs,
snowmobiles, jet skis, boats or any other motorized vehicle or equipment that
is not owned, leased or maintained by the City of Faith or any vehicle which
has not been authorized to be driven on city property by either the City
Council, City Public Works Foreman, or Chief of Police.
   (C)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized vehicle or
equipment to drive on, traverse or be present on any city property, other than
a public right of way or parking lot. Prohibited areas may or may not be marked
by a sign stating "No Unauthorized Motor Vehicles Beyond This Point".
   (D)   Authorized punishment. A violation of this section shall be deemed to
be a petty offense. A violation of this section may be punishable by a fine of
up to $100 and may also include a ban from entering or being physically present
on any city property, including but not limited to any city public building or
parking area, city sports venues, city golf course, city shooting range, Durkee
Lake or the Durkee Lake Recreational Area. Violators may also be subject to
restitution payments for all costs of repair, reclamation or restoration of
damaged city property. Repeat violations which occur within two years of the
first violation may be subject to the following enhanced penalties:
      (1)   A second violation of this section which occurs within two years of
the first violation may also include a six month ban from entering or being
physically present on any city property, including but not limited to any city
public building or parking area, city sports venues, city golf course, city
shooting range, Durkee Lake or the Durkee Lake Recreational Area.
      (2)   A third violation involving the golf course which occurs within two
years of the first violation may also include a one year ban from entering or
being physically present on any city property, including but not limited to any
city public building or parking area, city sports venues, city golf course,
city shooting range, Durkee Lake or the Durkee Lake Recreational Area.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-1-2020)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.02   Parking in streets
   
72.03   Impound and storage of personal property
   
72.04   Abandoned vehicles
   
72.05   Towing costs
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle to be operated or allowed to remain upon
any street under the jurisdiction of the city in such a manner as to form an
unreasonable obstruction to traffic. Whenever any police officer finds a
vehicle which constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer shall be
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle by towing, if necessary,
at owner’s expense, with no liability to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PARKING IN STREETS.
   (A)   In the event of new or blowing snow, creating the necessity for the
blading and/or removal of snow, it shall be unlawful to leave any vehicle
parked on any avenue or street when there is more than two inches of snow
accumulation.
   (B)   Fine. Any violation of this section shall be subject to the general
penalty § 10.99 with each day of any violation constituting a separate offence.
Additionally, the vehicle may be removed or caused to be removed by the Police
Department and towed to a designated storage area pursuant to §
72.03. The cost of such towing and any storage charges shall be paid by the
owner of the vehicle in addition to the prescribed fine prior to the release of
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6.0402) (Ord. 252, passed 12-1-1998; Am. Ord. 334, passed 2-19-
2019; Am. Ord. 358, passed 1-31-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 IMPOUND AND STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by this code of ordinances or by
some existing provision of law, no city official nor any city employee may
accept, take, or impound any personal property to be stored by the city.
   (B)   When any personal property is seized by any law enforcement officer
and it is necessary for such personal property to be stored or otherwise
maintained by the city, the city shall keep such personal property in a city
storage area as designated by the governing body and may not be released as
long as it is required as evidence in any trial without an order from such
court. The law enforcement agency requesting such storage or the owner of such
personal property shall pay to the city the actual costs of the removal of the
personal property to the storage area plus storage fees at the rate set by
resolution of the governing board.
   (C)   If any personal property is left or abandoned, whether attended or
not, upon any public property or right-of-way within the city which creates a
hazard, obstruction, nuisance or interference to or with the movement of
traffic, emergency vehicles, snow removal operations, street sweeping or street
maintenance, the police department is authorized to provide for the removal of
such personal property to a garage or place of safety as designated by the
governing body, and under such circumstances the owner of the personal property
shall pay to the city the actual costs of the removal of the property to the
storage area plus storage fees at the rate set by resolution of the governing
board
   (D)   The city shall not be liable for any damages to property or persons
incurred as a result of the seizure, removal, impound or storage of any
property pursuant (B) or (C) above or pursuant to any existing provision of law
or this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 332, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 72.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any street, alley,
highway, or public property within the city for a longer period than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 6.0404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 TOWING COSTS.
   When a vehicle is removed from either public or private property as
authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle shall be
responsible for all towing costs in addition to the fees provided in §
72.03 hereof. In addition, the city shall not be liable for any damages to
property or persons incurred as a result of such towing or storage.
(Prior Code, § 6.0405)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Snow route designation. The following streets and avenues are declared
emergency snow routes: from the City Shop, turn north on Fourth Avenue West
(past the PA’s house), turn east on Second Street and in front of the Fire and
Ambulance Hall, go north on First Avenue West, then west on First Street
(Highway 212) and then north on Second Avenue West to the Faith Clinic (also
clean the parking lot in from and rear of Clinic). Go south on Second Avenue
West from Second Street (past the Police Chiefs residence), turn east on Fourth
Street past the Ambulance Director’s house, turn north on Second Avenue East,
then east on Third Street to the south door of the Manor. All of Main Street,
then go west on Fifth Street to Highway 73; then go south on Second Avenue West
for one block. Clear all avenues that run north and south, alleys off the first
two blocks of Main Street, and all remaining streets that run east and west.
The Faith Airport will be plowed upon completion of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.0304)
   (B)   No parking due to amount of snowfall. There will be no parking on the
avenues or streets that run north and south when there is more than two inches
of snowfall until the said routes have been cleared to the edges of the street.
There will be no parking on the streets that run east and west when there is
more than two inches of snowfall until the said routes have been cleared to the
edges of the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.0305)
   (C)   Fine. Any violation of this schedule shall be subject to the general
penalty §
10.99 with each day of any violation constituting a separate offence.
Additionally, the vehicle may be removed by the Police Department and towed to
a designated storage area pursuant to §
72.03. The cost of such towing and any storage charges shall be paid by the
owner of the vehicle in addition to the prescribed fine prior to the release of
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0306)
(Ord. 252, passed 12-1-1998; Am. Ord. 358, passed 1-31-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Parks
   
90.01   Territorial jurisdiction
   
90.02   Authority of police
   
90.03   Fires in parks
Cemetery
   
90.15   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
   Building and Construction, see
Chapter 151
   Minors, see
Chapter 132
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 152
PARKS
§ 90.01 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territorial jurisdiction of the city shall extend to and be exercised
for all authorized purposes over all territory, including, but not limited to,
parks within the corporate limits and over any public ground or park belonging
to the city to the extent allowable by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7.0501)
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The authority of the police employed by the city shall extend to and cover
all property located within the territorial jurisdiction as described above and
the ordinances of the city shall apply to all public grounds and parks
contained within said territorial jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7.0502)
§ 90.03 FIRES IN PARKS.
   No person shall start any fire in any park except in those places provided
therefor. Every person who starts or uses a fire shall completely extinguish
the fire before leaving the park.
(Ord. 336, passed 7-16-2019)
CEMETERY
§ 90.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ord. 124, and all amendments thereto, providing for the management and
control of the Faith Cemetery, is hereby adopted by reference and all of the
provisions thereof, including any amendatory provisions, are hereby given full
force and effect. Said Ord. 124, and amendments thereto, shall be maintained in
the original book of ordinances on file at the City Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 7.06)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Running at large prohibited
   
91.02   Compulsory immunization of animals for rabies
   
91.03   Responsibility of owner to place animal for observation
   
91.04   Vicious animals
   
91.05   Disturbance of peace by animals
   
91.06   Cruelty to animals
   
91.07   Stray, abandoned, or unkept animals
   
91.08   Hogs in city
§ 91.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No owner of any dog, cat, livestock or fowl or other animal held as a
domestic pet or for any use in the city, shall permit such animal to run at
large at any time, and any such animal found at large may be impounded as
hereinafter provided and/or such owner may be penalized as provided by §
10.99.
   (B)   The City Council shall be authorized to appoint some person or
persons, whose duty it shall be to impound any animals running at large,
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Any police officer will likewise
have such power. Upon impounding, the owner of such animal may, at any time
within three working days after the same shall have been impounded, reclaim the
animal by paying the expense of keeping such animal. The expenses to be charged
shall from time to time be set by resolution of the City Council. If any animal
so impounded shall not be reclaimed within three working days and all efforts
to locate the owner have failed, the Police Department is authorized to
destroy, sell, or otherwise dispose of such animal.
   (C)   No person shall hinder, delay, or obstruct the Police Department, its
assistants, or any law enforcement officer when engaged in capturing, securing
or impounding any animal or animals.
   (D)   The City Council shall be authorized to enter into a contract with
some person, association, or humane society to establish, operate, and maintain
an animal pound in and for the city. Such contract shall provide for the
enforcement of this chapter, for the impounding, destroying, and disposal of
animals, for a schedule of fees to be charged for services rendered, and for a
monthly amount to be paid by the city. The city may, in lieu of the provisions
of this section, maintain its own impoundment area or quarters, under the
supervision of the City Council.
   (E)   Any owner allowing his or her animal to run at large as defined in the
provisions of this section, if convicted, shall also be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.0301) (Ord. 360, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 COMPULSORY IMMUNIZATION OF ANIMALS FOR RABIES.
   (A)   Every dog, cat, or other animal held as a domestic pet in the city,
six months of age or older, shall be immunized against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian or other qualified person designated by the City Council.
Immunization against rabies shall be given at such intervals to guarantee
immunity, and the minimum time period between vaccinations shall be determined
by the available vaccine and based upon the recommendations and approval of the
State Veterinarian.
   (B)   Any owner acquiring a dog, cat, or other animal by purchase, gift,
birth, or otherwise shall have such animal immunized against rabies within one
month following acquisition or when such animal reaches the age of six months.
   (C)   Any animal impounded shall not be released to any person until such
animal has been immunized against rabies, provided, however, no animal so
impounded shall be immunized if the owner can present a certificate of a
current immunization having been previously performed.
   (D)   All veterinarians or other qualified persons designated to immunize
animals against rabies shall provide the owner at the time of immunization with
a certificate or metallic tag showing the date of immunization.
   (E)   Whenever metallic tags are so given for immunizations, such metallic
tags shall be worn by all animals on a collar, harness, or chain when off the
premises of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 5.0302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO PLACE ANIMAL FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   When any person owning or harboring a dog, cat, or other animal has
been notified that said animal has bitten or attacked any person, the owner
shall within 24 hours place the animal under the care and observation of the
Police Department or a licensed veterinarian for a period of not less than ten
days.
   (B)   At the end of the ten-day observation period, the animal shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian and, if cleared by the veterinarian, may be
reclaimed by the owner upon paying the expenses incident thereto.
   (C)   Any animal impounded or placed for observation, showing active signs
of rabies, suspected of having rabies, or known to have been exposed to rabies
shall be confined under competent observation for such time as may be deemed
necessary to determine a diagnosis.
   (D)   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the city is infected
with rabies shall report said animal to the Police Department, or other health
authority, describing the animal and giving the name and address of the owner
if known.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any animal infected with
rabies or any animal known to have been bitten by an animal known to have been
infected with rabies.
   (F)   Any person within the city receiving information or reports of
suspected rabies in wild animal or domestic animals shall report such
information to the Police Department of the city.
   (G)   Any rabid animal may be destroyed by the Police Department upon
authorization in writing by the City Council.
   (H)   Whenever the Police Department shall have determined that there is
danger of the existence or spread of rabies in the city, such facts shall be
made known to the City Council in writing. The Council, upon receipt of said
facts, may by proclamation, in the interest of public safety and general
welfare of the citizenry, order all animals muzzled when off the premises of
the owner. Forty-eight hours after the publication of said proclamation all
animals found off the premises of the owner unmuzzled shall be seized and
impounded or may be immediately destroyed if all reasonable efforts to seize
said animals fail. All animals seized and impounded shall be held for
observation as hereinbefore provided for not less than ten days and, if cleared
by a licensed veterinarian, may be claimed by the owner upon paying the
expenses incidental thereto. Any animal not claimed may be disposed of as
hereinbefore provided.
(Prior Code, § 5.0303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal is declared to be vicious within the meaning of this section
when it shall have bitten any person when the fact that there has been no
provocation to incite such action has been reasonably established, or when a
propensity to attack or bite human beings shall exist and is known, or ought
reasonably to be known by the owner.
   (B)   No vicious animal shall be allowed off the premises of its owner
unless muzzled or on a leash, in charge of the owner or a member of the owner’s
immediate family over 16 years of age.
   (C)   Any vicious animal which is found off the premises of the owner, other
than provided herein, shall be seized by the Police Department and be delivered
to the animal pound. When reasonable efforts to seize such animal fail and it
is deemed advisable, such action as is necessary can be taken to dispose of
said animal. If impounded, upon establishment of the vicious character of said
animal, the owner shall be notified to dispose of the animal.
   (D)   Any owner who allows a vicious animal to be in violation of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if convicted,
will be guilty of a further violation each day that such condition is allowed
to exist or goes uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 5.0304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISTURBANCE OF PEACE BY ANIMALS.
   The owner of an animal shall not allow such animal to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood, also construed to mean the city, through barking or
any other manner possible. Upon complaint, such owner will be notified by the
Police Department and said owner shall abate such nuisance. If convicted upon
failure to abate such nuisance, said owner will be guilty of further violations
for each day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 5.0305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall willfully or negligently maltreat or abuse or neglect in a
cruel or inhumane manner any animal or fowl. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully or maliciously administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal, with the intent to injure or
destroy such animal, or to willfully or maliciously place any poison or
poisoned food where the same is accessible to any such animal.
(Prior Code, § 5.0306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 STRAY, ABANDONED, OR UNKEPT ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any stray animals within the city. Animals
known to be strays shall be reported to the Police Department immediately.
(Prior Code, § 5.0307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 HOGS IN CITY.
   No person shall keep or maintain any hogs within the city. No person shall
keep or maintain any building or enclosure where livestock is kept, unless the
same be at all times kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 5.0308) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Prohibited and defined
   
92.02   Nuisances how abated
§ 92.01 PROHIBITED AND DEFINED.
   (A)   No person shall create, commit, maintain, or permit to be created,
committed, or maintained any nuisance as defined herein, within the boundaries
and jurisdiction limits of the city.
   (B)   The following specific acts, conditions, and things are, each and all
of them, hereby declared to constitute nuisances:
      (1)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property, any household wastewater,
sewage, garbage, refuse, rubbish, offal, excrement, decaying fruit, vegetables,
fish, meat, bones, any fowl, putrid, or obnoxious liquid substance, putrescible
and non-putrescible animal or vegetable wastes or solid wastes, or any other
waste material which constitutes or tends to create a danger to public health,
safety, and welfare;
      (2)   The accumulation of manure, garbage, or anything whatever which are
breeding areas for flies, mosquitoes, and rodents;
      (3)   Permitting weeds or grass to grow to maturity on any private
property including, but not limited to, Canada thistle, sunflowers, ragweed,
cockleburr, burdock, black mustard, sweet clover, and bull thistle. Also,
allowing the dense growth of any vegetation including brush or grass, without
proper trimming or mowing, which may constitute a health, safety, or fire
hazard;
      (4)   For the owner of a dead animal to permit it to remain undisposed of
longer than 24 hours after its death;
      (5)   Any excavation, trench, or open basement in which stagnant water is
permitted to collect or which may jeopardize the life, limb, or safety of the
general public;
      (6)   Throwing or letting fall on or permitting to remain on any street,
alley, or public ground any manure, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel, or wood
while engaged in handling or removing any such substance;
      (7)   Permitting motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies, and disassembled
parts thereof, disassembled bicycles and bicycle parts and other mechanical
machines or motors or parts thereof when such items are stored, collected,
piled, or kept on private or public property, and in view of adjacent
properties or public rights-of-way and are not stored inside a building;   
      (8)   Bonfires. Burning, causing or permitting to be burned upon any
private or public property any dirt, filth, manure, garbage, sweepings, leaves,
ashes, paper, waste, or rubbish of any kind;
      (9)   Burning of garbage. Burning upon any private or public property any
garbage,offal, excrement, fresh or decaying fruits, vegetables, fish, meat, or
bone, or any foul, putrid, or obnoxious liquid or substance; and
      (10)   Own, possess, maintain, or allow any building or premises which is
determined to be dangerous or dilapidated. Any building or structure which has
any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed
to be a dangerous or dilapidated building, if such conditions or defects
thereby annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others, or if such conditions or defects exist to the extent that the life,
health, property, value of property, or safety of the public or its occupants
are jeopardized:
         (a)   Whenever any building or structure: is vacant or unoccupied for
the purpose for which it was erected; is unfit for occupancy as it fails to
meet minimum housing standards; and has remained substantially in such
condition for a period in excess of six months; and/or
         (b)   Whenever any building or structure through lack of maintenance
or attention and by virtue of its physical appearance and presence thereby
depresses the market value of surrounding properties.
(Prior Code, § 3.0101) (Ord. 335, passed 7-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 NUISANCES HOW ABATED.
   (A)   The City Council shall give written notice or cause written notice to
be given to any person creating, permitting, or maintaining any nuisance to
abate such nuisance forthwith, and if such person shall neglect or refuse to do
so, or otherwise fails to provide adequate assurances of compliance within a
reasonable time after such notice, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter. The City Council shall cause to be removed or abated
any such nuisance upon the expiration of a reasonable time after the serving of
such notice; and the city may recover the expenses so incurred from the person
maintaining such nuisance in a civil suit instituted for such purpose, or may
levy an assessment against the property and collect the same.
   (B)   Within ten days after any assessment has been approved by the City
Council, a certified copy of the same shall be filed with the Finance Officer,
and shall be due and payable to the city. If the assessment is not paid within
60 days of filing, a penalty cost of 10% shall be added in addition to the
annual interest rate at the highest legal rate allowed by law on the unpaid
balance.
(Prior Code, § 3.0102) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   [RESERVED]
      
114.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Licensing of Businesses
   
110.01   License; unlawful without
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   License expiration
   
110.04   Revocation
   
110.05   Issuance of license
   
110.06   Record of licenses
Contractors and Construction
   
110.20   Plumbers and electricians
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LICENSING OF BUSINESSES
§ 110.01 LICENSE; UNLAWFUL WITHOUT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to engage
in any activity for which a license is required without first having obtained a
license, as hereinafter provided. The City Council may at any time expand the
general provisions of this subchapter by requiring any person, persons, firm,
or corporation engaging in any trade, business, or occupation within the city
which is not specified by this subchapter to obtain a license, as deemed
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4.0101) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation wishing to obtain a license
as herein provided, shall make written application to the City Council, stating
the name of the applicant, address, purpose of the activity, the length of time
for which said license is wanted, and the particular place at which said
license is to be used.
   (B)   Fees for all licenses shall be fixed by the City Council, where not
specified in this subchapter, and all license fees shall be paid in full at the
time of application in such manner as approved by said Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.0102)
§ 110.03 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   Any annual licenses granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall
expire on December 31 next following the granting thereof, except as otherwise
provided, and shall not be granted for any sum less than the annual rate, and
there shall be no rebate made on the termination of said calling, vocation, or
kind of business for which said license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 4.0103)
§ 110.04 REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the authority at any time to suspend or revoke
any license granted under the provision of this subchapter whenever the Council
shall be satisfied upon written complaint that any such calling, vocation, or
kind of business for which the license has been issued, has been made or
conducted in an improper or illegal manner and, in case of such revocation, the
City Council may refund to the holder of such license such proportionate amount
of money paid therefor as the Council shall deem just.
(Prior Code, § 4.0104)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided, all licenses shall be issued by the Finance
Officer after issuance of the license has been approved by the City Council and
the applicant shall have complied with all requirements for issuance of such
license. Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be signed by the Finance
Officer and shall have affixed thereto the official seal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0105)
§ 110.06 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Finance Officer shall keep a record of all licenses issued by the city
stating:
   (A)   When and to whom issued;
   (B)   For what purpose and for what length of time;
   (C)   The amount of money paid for the license; and
   (D)   The place where the activity is to be carried on.
(Prior Code, § 4.0106)
CONTRACTORS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 110.20 PLUMBERS AND ELECTRICIANS.
   No person shall engage in or do any work as a plumbing or electrical
contractor, plumber or electrician, or apprentice in the city unless registered
to do so with the State Plumbing Board or State Electrical Board pursuant to
SDCL Chs. 36-16 and 36-25. A copy of such registration shall be filed with the
City Finance Officer. Nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from
doing plumbing or electrical work which complies with the provisions of the
minimum standards prescribed by the State Plumbing Board or State Electrical
Board on property owned and occupied by him or her or on premises where he or
she may be employed in full time maintenance work, provided that such plumbing
or electrical work is still subject to all other applicable ordinances and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4.0301) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.06, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the resolution of the City
Council shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both such fine and
imprisonment for each day of operation in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.06. Each day in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.06 shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.0107)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   Refusing to leave
   
111.04   Entrance to premises restricted
   
111.05   Misrepresentation
   
111.06   Hours of operation
   
111.07   Prohibited conduct
Permit Requirements
   
111.20   Permit required
   
111.21   Application
   
111.22   False information
   
111.23   Fingerprints; photographs
   
111.24   Fee
   
111.25   Issuance restricted
   
111.26   Display
   
111.27   Revocation
   
111.28   Prohibited conduct
   
111.29   Special events
   
111.30   Health and sanitation requirements for food and beverage vending
   
111.31   Advertising
   
111.32   Renewal of permit
   
111.33   Denial, suspension, and revocation of permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of this city or not, traveling from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street for the purpose
of selling or soliciting for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or services,
including food and beverages, and shall also mean and include any person
transacting a temporary business within the city.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event sponsored by a group or individual at which several
peddlers and/or vendors are selling or soliciting for sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, or services, including food and beverages.
   STAND. Any table, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon, or any other
movable vehicle or device, which may be moved without the assistance of a motor
and which is not required to be licensed and registered by the State Department
of Commerce and Regulation, used for the displaying, storing, or transporting
of articles offered for sale by a vendor.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. The sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or services,
including food and beverages, sold by a person, business, or other entity for
fewer than 90 days within any period of 12 consecutive months, or from a car,
truck, other motor vehicle, trailer, or any structure other than a permanent
building.
   VEND. To sell or solicit for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or
services, including food and beverages.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in the selling or soliciting for sale of goods,
wares, merchandise, services, including food and beverages, on the public
streets or sidewalks, from a stand or motor vehicle or from his or her person.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Solicitations, sales, or distributions made by charitable,
educational, or religious organizations which have registered with the City
Finance Department;
   (B)   Traveling salespersons doing business exclusively with retail
merchants, manufacturers, jobbers, or public officials;
   (C)   Persons selling farm, garden, or other agricultural products grown or
produced by them and not purchased by them for resale including, without
limitation, vegetables, fruits, flowers, milk, butter, eggs, cheese, jams, and
jellies; and
   (D)   Bona fide garage, rummage, yard, or moving sales which do not occur at
the same location more than four times per year, for more than four days each
time.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.03 REFUSING TO LEAVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or vendor who enters upon premises
owned or leased by another to fail to promptly leave the premises after having
been notified by the owner or possessor of the premises, or his or her agent,
to leave the premises.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 ENTRANCE TO PREMISES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or vendor to enter upon any private
premises when the premises is posted with a sign stating:
   (A)   “No Peddlers Allowed”;
   (B)   “No Soliciting”; or
   (C)   Words to that effect.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 MISREPRESENTATION.
   No peddler or vendor shall make false or fraudulent statements concerning
the quality or nature of his or her goods, wares, merchandise, or services for
the purpose of inducing another to purchase the goods, wares, merchandise, or
services.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No peddler or vendor shall peddle or vend door-to-door between the hours of
8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the following morning, except by specific appointment
with or invitation from the prospective customer.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Any peddler or vendor selling or soliciting for sale goods, wares,
merchandise, or services by traveling from place to place, house to house, or
street to street shall not remain in any one place for a period longer than
necessary to make a sale after having been approached or stopped for that
purpose.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler or
vendor within this city without first obtaining a permit to do so from the City
Finance Office.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this subchapter
shall include the following:
   (A)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any state or federal law or municipal
ordinance or code other than traffic offenses; the nature of the offense; the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor, if previously convicted; and the place
of conviction;
   (B)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept,
or receive payment, or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (C)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the city;
   (D)   The local and permanent addresses of the applicant;
   (E)   The local and permanent addresses and the name of the entity, if any,
that the applicant represents;
   (F)   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise, food, beverage, or services the
applicant wishes to peddle within the city;
   (G)   The last five cities or towns wherein the applicant has worked before
coming to this city;
   (H)   The applicant’s state sales tax license number;
   (I)   The applicant’s date of birth and Social Security account number or
other identifying number; and
   (J)   Contain a statement that the peddler or vendor covenants and agrees
that it will protect and save and keep the city forever harmless from and
indemnify against any penalty or damage or charges imposed for any violation of
any laws or ordinances; occasioned by the neglect of peddler or vendor or those
holding under peddler or vendor, and that peddler or vendor will at all times
protect, indemnify, and save and keep harmless the city against and from any
and all loss, cost, damage, or expense, arising out of or from the fault or
negligence of peddler or vendor, causing injury to any person or damage to
property and will protect, indemnify, and save and keep harmless the city
against and from any and all claims, loss, cost, damage, or expense arising out
of any failure of peddler or vendor in any respect to comply with and perform
all the requirements and provisions hereof.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.22 FALSE INFORMATION.
   No person shall give any false or misleading information in connection with
his or her application for a permit required by ordinance.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 FINGERPRINTS; PHOTOGRAPHS.
   At the request of the Police Chief, the applicant for a permit required by
this subchapter shall submit to fingerprinting and photographing.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.24 FEE.
   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this subchapter,
the applicant shall pay a fee as follows:
   (A)   Temporary: $25 for the first day and $5 for each subsequent day; or
   (B)   Annual: $100.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.25 ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   No permit shall be issued to a corporation, partnership, or other impersonal
legal entity, unless that entity is operating a temporary business at a fixed
location, but each individual person engaging in the business of peddling or
vending from door-to-door or street-to-street within the city shall be required
to have a separate permit, whether acting for himself or herself or as an agent
or representative of another.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.26 DISPLAY.
   Every peddler or vendor having a permit issued under the provisions of this
subchapter and doing business within the city shall display his or her permit
upon the request of any person, and failure to do so shall be an offense.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.27 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be
revoked by the City Finance Officer for the violation, by the permittee, of any
provision of state law or city ordinance.
   (B)   Upon such revocation, such permit shall immediately be surrendered,
and failure to do so shall be an offense.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.28 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No peddler or vendor shall:
   (A)   Store, park, or leave any stand overnight on any street or sidewalk or
park any motor vehicle other than in a lawful parking place, in conformance
with city and state parking regulations;
   (B)   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption unless he or she has
available for public use his or her own or a public litter receptacle which is
available for his or her patrons’ use;
   (C)   Leave any location without first picking up, removing, and disposing
of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by him or her;
   (D)   Use any device that is designed to amplify sound for the purpose of
making verbal solicitations;
   (E)   Allow any items relating to the operation of the vending business to
be placed anywhere other than in, on, or under the stand or motor vehicle;
   (F)   Set up, maintain, or permit the use of any table, crate, carton, rack,
or any other device to increase the selling or display capacity of his or her
stand or motor vehicle where such items have not been described in his or her
application;
   (G)   Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles;
   (H)   Sell anything other than that which he or she is permitted to vend;
and/or
   (I)   No peddler or vendor shall allow his or her stand or any other item
relating to the operation of the peddling or vending business to lean against
or hang from any building or other structure lawfully placed on public property
without the owner’s permission.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person in charge of a special event shall obtain a peddler’s
permit prior to holding any special event.
      (2)   Such special event peddler’s permit shall be granted subject to
compliance with any conditions or requirements placed on it by the Finance
Officer.
   (B)   Any special event that is conducted by a bona fide nationally
chartered veterans, religious, charitable, educational, or fraternal
organization, local civic or service club political party, or volunteer fire
department or political committee on behalf of a candidate for a political
office, which exists under the laws of the state, is exempt from the special
event permit required under division (A) above.
   (C)   Any person peddling or vending at any special event who would
otherwise be required to obtain a peddler’s permit, shall be deemed exempt from
the permit required under §
111.20 for the duration of the special event.
   (D)   (1)   Every person in charge of a special event shall maintain a full
list of all peddlers and/or vendors included in such special event.
      (2)   A copy of this list shall be provided to the Finance Officer or
Police Chief upon his or her request and failure to do so shall be an offense.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 HEALTH AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDING.
   Peddlers or vendors of food and beverages shall comply with comply with all
inspection provisions and standards for food service establishments contained
in law, administrative rule, or ordinance.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 ADVERTISING.
   No advertising, except the posting of prices, shall be permitted on any
stand or motor vehicle, except to identify the name of the product or the name
of the peddler or vendor.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   All permits required in this subchapter are valid for the entire licensing
period unless revoked or suspended prior to expiration. An application to renew
a permit shall be made no later than 30 days before the expiration of the
current permit.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 111.33 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit required in this subchapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked
for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the application for the
permit;
   (B)   Fraud or misrepresentation made in the course of carrying on the
business of peddling or vending;
   (C)   Conduct of the business in such a manner as to create a public
nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety, welfare, or
morals;
   (D)   Conduct of the business in violation of any city or state tax and
licensing laws; and/or
   (E)   Conduct which is contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-7-2008)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application and license fees
   
112.03   License restrictions
   
112.04   Location of business
   
112.05   Hours of business
   
112.06   Hours of sale
   
112.07   Sanitation facilities
   
112.08   Open containers
   
112.09   Furnishing of beverages to child; minimum age; exceptions
   
112.10   Purchase, possession, or consumption of beverage by minor;
misrepresentation of age
   
112.11   Malt beverages
Special Events
   
112.25   License
   
112.26   Requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General provisions for businesses, see
Chapter 110
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, keep for sale, exchange, distill,
manufacture, produce, bottle, blend, or otherwise concoct, within the city any
alcoholic beverage as defined by statute, without having a license therefor as
required by state laws.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION AND LICENSE FEES.
   In any instances in which applications may qualify, applications for
licenses for sale of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be submitted as
prescribed by state laws.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   Applications for on-sale, off-sale, or malt beverage licenses shall have the
necessary fees attached upon being submitted to the City Council as required by
the state laws and the granting and retention of licenses will be as provided
by the state laws and local regulations.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008)
§ 112.04 LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   The City Council shall not issue any licenses to any person(s), business, or
group where the location of such a business would not be considered desirable
in accordance with state laws, local ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008)
§ 112.05 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   The hours during which on-sale dealers may sell, serve, or allow to be
consumed any alcoholic beverage shall be governed by SDCL § 35-4-81, and all
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours during which off-sale dealers may sell any alcoholic
beverage shall be governed by SDCL § 35-4-81, and all amendments thereto.
   (B)   The hours during which any dealer of malt beverages may sell, serve,
or allow to be consumed malt beverages shall be in accordance with all state
laws governing the same.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 SANITATION FACILITIES.
   Every on-sale dealer shall maintain, upon his or her licensed premises,
toilet facilities and water and sewer facilities equipped and maintained so as
to pass state and local health laws and requirements.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to drink any beer or alcoholic beverage or to possess
any glass, can, or other container containing beer or any alcoholic beverage on
which the seal has been broken, in any public place, vacant building,
automobile, street, alley, sidewalk, or place of amusement or business
establishment not authorized to sell beer or alcoholic beverages, unless
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 FURNISHING OF BEVERAGES TO CHILD; MINIMUM AGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful to sell or give for use as a beverage any alcoholic beverage
to any person under the age of 21 years, unless:
   (A)   It is done in the immediate presence of a parent, guardian, or spouse,
who is over 21 years of age, while not on the premises of an establishment
licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-
2 or at a special event for which an alcoholic beverage license has been
issued; or
   (B)   It is done by prescription or direction of a duly licensed
practitioner or nurse of the healing art for medicinal purposes.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 PURCHASE, POSSESSION, OR CONSUMPTION OF BEVERAGE BY MINOR;
MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase, attempt
to purchase, or possess or consume alcoholic beverages except when consumed in
a religious ceremony and given to said person by an authorized person, or to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or attempting to
purchase such alcoholic beverages from any licensee as defined by state laws.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 MALT BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Malt beverage retailers licenses for the sale of malt beverages for
on- and off-sale licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of SDCL § 35-4-2
(16) and (17) shall be permitted within the city limits of the city along with
the issuance of temporary malt beverage licenses.
   (B)   The number of licenses which shall be issued and the fees to be
charged for such licenses shall be set, pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-11, by
resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 269, passed 8-27-2002)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 112.25 LICENSE.
   For purposes of this subchapter, a SPECIAL EVENT within the municipality is
defined as an event or activity conducted by any generally recognized civic,
charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans organization with an active
chapter located within the city, or any qualified licensee licensed pursuant to
SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (6), or (16). To obtain the special event license, the
applicant shall submit an application stating his or her qualifications for a
special event license on a form consistent with the requirements of SDCL § 35-
4-124 and providing all additional information required by the City Finance
Office to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 112.26 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A special malt beverage retailer’s license may be issued in
conjunction with a special event, as defined at §
112.25 herein, within the city to any qualified civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal, or veterans organization or any qualified licensee licensed pursuant
to SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (6), or (16) in addition to any other licenses held by the
special events license applicant.
   (B)   A special on-sale wine retailer’s license may be issued in conjunction
with a special event, as defined in §
112.25 herein, within the city to any qualified civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal, or veterans organization or any qualified licensee licensed pursuant
to SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (6), or (12) or SDCL Ch. 35-12 in addition to any other
licenses held by the special events license applicant.
   (C)   A special on-sale license may be issued in conjunction with a special
event, as defined in §
112.25 herein, within the city to any qualified civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal, or veterans organization or any qualified licensee licensed pursuant
to SDCL § 35-4-2(4) or (6) in addition to any other licenses held by the
special events license applicant.
   (D)   A special off-sale package wine dealer’s license may be issued in
conjunction with a special event, as defined in §
112.25 herein, within the city to any qualified civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal, or veterans organization or any qualified licensee licensed pursuant
to SDCL § 35-4-2(3), (5), (12), (17A), or (19) or SDCL Ch. 35-12 in addition to
any other licenses held by the special events license applicant. A special off-
sale package wine dealers licensee may only sell wine manufactured by a farm
winery that is licensed pursuant to SDCL Ch. 35-12.
   (E)   The fee for each special malt beverage retailer’s license, special on-
sale wine retailer’s license, and special off-sale package wine dealer’s
license will be $25 per day. The fee for each special on-sale liquor license
shall be $25 per day.
   (F)   A public hearing is required before approval and issuance of any
license under this section.
   (G)   Any licenses issued pursuant to this section may be issued for a
period of time established by the City Council not exceeding 15 consecutive
days.
   (H)   Any nonprofit licensee under this section may not be issued more than
three special event licenses for a total of 15 days during a single calendar
year.
   (I)   Any special events license applicant under this subchapter shall
provide a list of all employees, members, or other clerks who will be serving
alcohol at the special event and proof that all such employees, members, and/or
clerks have successfully completed an alcohol training program approved by the
state.
   (J)   Any special events license applicant under this subchapter shall set
forth on its application detailed plans for the erection of a physical barrier
to allow for multiple uses of the licensed premises by persons of all ages and
to ensure that persons under the age of 21 are not permitted access to the area
reserved for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (K)   This license may be issued pursuant all additional requirements of
SDCL §§ 35-4-19(2) and 35-4-124, including the procedural regulations adopted
by a resolution of the Council and pursuant to then current terms and
conditions of the operating agreements issued by the Council to all other
licensed establishments within the city.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or licensee in violation of any of the provisions of
§§
112.01 through
112.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. For failure to correct any
offense when applicable, after conviction, each day of failure to do so shall
constitute an additional separate offense. Whenever any person shall as clerk,
servant, agent, or employee of any other person or establishment violate any of
the provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.10, he or she shall also be deemed guilty as a principal. Failure to comply
with all existing requirements, including the provisions in §§
112.01 through
112.10, shall provide cause for revocation of any licenses granted under the
provisions of the state laws, as amended.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-5-2008)
CHAPTER 113: RESERVED
CHAPTER 114: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   License application
   
114.05   Issuance of license
   
114.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
114.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
114.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
114.09   Suspension
   
114.10   Revocation
   
114.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
114.12   Appeal
   
114.13   Licenses not transferable
   
114.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
114.15   Liability for violations
 
   
114.99   Penalties
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council enacts the following licensing ordinances in order to
ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal boundaries of the city
operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations, protects
the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, prevents potential
conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes certain
safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or
access of cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined
by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (or MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of one percent on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. Cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is subject
to the general penalty provision in §
114.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
114.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $15,000. The city will reimburse $0.00 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the South Dakota
Department of Health.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets any location requirements pursuant SDCL § 34-20G and the
administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment.
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021; Am. Ord. 355, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable location
requirements;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city's preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensaries shall be allowed to operate in the
city at any time.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
114.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the Department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter.
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment.
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
114.09 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
114.09 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
114.11;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officers, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G; or
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired.
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city's intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Council President.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall, P.O. Box 368, Faith, South
Dakota, 57626. The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 114.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m. any day of the week.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 347, passed 11-2-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
      
132.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms prohibited; shooting range exception
   
130.02   Sport shooting range; establishment; prohibitions
   
130.03   Fireworks prohibited
   
130.04   Exceptions provided
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS PROHIBITED; SHOOTING RANGE EXCEPTION.
   No person shall discharge any firearm within the city, unless permitted by
the City Council at sport shooting ranges.
(Prior Code, § 5.0401) (Ord. 292, passed 3-3-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SPORT SHOOTING RANGE; ESTABLISHMENT; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a sport shooting range, as
defined by SDCL § 21-10-33, at Durkee Lake Park at the location and boundaries
as set forth on the map thereof, attached to the ordinance codified herein, and
included herein by this reference. This sport shooting range shall be known as
“Durkee Lake Sport Shooting Range”.
   (B)   No person shall discharge any firearm or shoot a bow and arrow upon
any portion of Durkee Lake Park outside of the Durkee Lake Sport Shooting Range
as defined herein.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-3-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   The use, throwing, lighting, firing, display, or sale of fireworks within
the city shall be prohibited. The term FIREWORKS as referred to in this section
shall include firecrackers, torpedoes, roman candles, toy cannons, detonating
canes, blank cartridges, sky rockets, or other pyrotechnic displays, but shall
not include or apply to ammunition for firearms nor to dynamite and devices for
exploding the same used in any industry or for the same. The sale or discharge
of firecrackers or other fireworks which conform to state law shall be allowed
in accordance with the state law.
(Prior Code, § 5.0402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 EXCEPTIONS PROVIDED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to police officers of the
city or to any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized by the City Council
to discharge fireworks for public entertainment at a public celebration.
(Prior Code, § 5.0403)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   False report of a crime
   
131.03   Injury or removal of public or private property
   
131.04   Tampering in general
   
131.05   Tampering with service connections
   
131.06   Carrying a concealed weapon
   
131.07   Resisting, escaping from, or assaulting an officer
   
131.08   Indecency
   
131.09   Hunting and trapping
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Acts constituting disorderly conduct. A person shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of causing public danger, alarm,
disorder, nuisance, or if his or her conduct is likely to cause public danger,
alarm, disorder or nuisance, he or she willfully does any of the following acts
in a public place:
      (1)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the other is placed in danger of life, limb, or health;
      (2)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or
damaged;
      (3)   Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous
conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another,
except in boxing exhibitions duly authorized and licensed under law;
      (4)   Interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence;
      (5)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way or
place when ordered to do so by the City Police;
      (6)   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the City Police
or any other authorized official of the city when known to be such an official;
      (7)   Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite
a riot;
      (8)   Addresses abusive language or threats to any member of the City
Police Department, any other authorized official of the city who is engaged in
the lawful performance of his or her duties, or any other person when such
words have direct tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing
displeasure, annoyance, or resentment are not prohibited;
      (9)   Damages, befouls, or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive
condition;
      (10)   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous, and unreasonable
noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other person(s) nearby, or near to
any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common, whereby
the public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public annoyed;
      (11)   Fails to obey a lawful order to disburse by a police officer, when
known to be such an officer, where one or more persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and the public health and safety
is eminently threatened; and/or
      (12)   Throws a stone, snowball, or any other missile upon or at any
vehicle, building, tree, or other public or private property or upon or at any
person in any public or private way or place or enclosed or unenclosed ground.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INCITING RIOTS. Urging or instigating other persons to riot, but shall
not be deemed to mean the mere oral or written advocacy of ideas or expression
of belief, not involving advocacy of any act or acts of violence or assertion
of the rightness, or the right to commit, any such act or acts.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access for
business, entertainment, or any lawful purpose, but does not necessarily mean a
place devoted solely to the use of the public. It shall also include the front
or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, or other place of
business and also public grounds, areas, or parks.
      RIOT. A public disturbance involving:
         (a)   An act or acts of violence by one or more persons part of an
assemblage of three or more persons, which act or acts shall constitute a clear
and present danger of, or shall result in, damage or injury to the property of
another person or to the person or any other individual; or
         (b)   A threat or threats of the commission of an act or acts of
violence by one or more persons part of an assemblage of three or more persons
having, individually or collectively, the ability of immediate execution of
such threat or threats, where the performance of the threatened act or acts of
violence would constitute a clear and present danger of, or would result in,
damage or injury to the property of any other person or to the person of any
other individual.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not be construed to suppress the right
to lawful assembly, picketing, public speaking, or lawful means of expressing
public opinion not in contravention with other laws.
(Prior Code, § 5.0201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 FALSE REPORT OF A CRIME.
   No person in the city shall make to, or file with, the Police Department of
the city any false, misleading, or unfounded statement or report concerning the
commission or alleged commission of any crime occurring within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 INJURY OR REMOVAL OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully, maliciously, wantonly, negligently, or otherwise
injure, deface, destroy, or remove real property or improvements thereto, or
moveable or personal property, belonging to the city or to any person in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 TAMPERING IN GENERAL.
   No person in the city shall tamper with, injure, deface, destroy, or remove
any sign, notice, marker, fire alarm box, fire plug or hydrant, typographical
survey marker or monument, or any other personal property erected or placed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 TAMPERING WITH SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, disconnect, or otherwise
tamper with any utility connection owned or maintained by the city, or owned or
maintained by any utility company or service connection owned or maintained by
a franchised cable television company without the express prior approval of the
city, appropriate utility, or cable television company.
(Prior Code, § 5.0205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON.
   No person shall carry concealed about his or her person, or display in a
threatening manner, any dangerous or deadly weapon including, but not limited
to, any pistol or other firearm without a permit, brass knuckle or knuckles of
other material, or dagger, bowie knife, or other dangerous or deadly weapon, or
any instrument or device which when used is likely to produce death or great
bodily harm. Any police officer may wear or carry such weapons as may be
necessary and proper for the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 5.0206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 RESISTING, ESCAPING FROM, OR ASSAULTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist or obstruct any police officer in the performance of
any official duty, nor in any way aid or assist any person to escape from any
lawful confinement. No person shall assault or strike any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 5.0207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 INDECENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISSEMINATION. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any
other articles, equipment, or machines.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards,
taken as a whole, that the predominant appeal of the matter appeals to the
prurient interests and: depicts or describes patently offensive representations
or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated; or depicts or describes patently offensive representations or
descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd exhibits of the
genitals; and which, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
      PRURIENT INTEREST. Shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, distribute, or make available to the public
any obscene materials;
      (2)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public;
      (3)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or excretion
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements, and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of the prurient appeal; or
      (4)   Appear in any public state in a state of dress intended to deceive
others as to his or her sex, or make any indecent exposure of his or her
person.
(Prior Code, § 5.0208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 HUNTING AND TRAPPING.
   (A)   No person may hunt, trap, chase, drive, harass, kill, or attempt to
kill any game animal or game bird within the territorial jurisdiction of the
city, including without limitation: Durkee Lake Park and all municipal property
surrounding Durkee Lake, sanitary landfill, the Faith Municipal Airport and all
other public grounds and parks within said territorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to police officers of
the city or to any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized by the City
Council for the enforcement of
Chapter 91 of this Code of Ordinances or necessary for the control and
disposition of any animal determined to be injurious to livestock, poultry,
game, land or the public health.
(Ord. 333, passed 2-19-2019)
CHAPTER 132: MINORS
Section
   
132.01   Curfew hours and exceptions
   
132.02   Responsibility of officers
   
132.03   Responsibility of parents or guardians
§ 132.01 CURFEW HOURS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be on the
streets, alleys, or public grounds of the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m., and for any person under the age of 18 to be on the streets,
alleys, or public grounds of the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m. unless accompanied by parents, legal guardian, or some adult person over
18 years of age having the care and control of said person, or unless such
person shall be upon some necessary errand by written permission of a parent,
and except approved school functions and activities, and said person so
permitted to be outdoors shall have with him or her such written permission and
shall upon request of any police officers of the city exhibit the same to said
police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5.0501) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to arrest and detain
any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter and to keep such
person detained until his or her parents, guardian, or person in control will
appear before the police or other authorized personnel to answer to the charge
of having violated this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.0502)
§ 132.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parents, guardian, or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit
such a minor to be or remain in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks,
playgrounds, public grounds, public places, public buildings, public places of
amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised public places
within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., except if the
minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor or when the minor is upon an emergency
errand or legitimate business directed or authorized by his or her parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor.
(Prior Code, § 5.0503) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   BUILDING NUMBERING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Private storage hangars; Faith Municipal Airport
   
150.02   Parking and storage of vehicles in residential areas
   
150.03   Zoning adopted by reference
§ 150.01 PRIVATE STORAGE HANGARS; FAITH MUNICIPAL AIRPORT.
   Construction of single or multiple hangars shall only be started after
receiving, from the City Council, as approved, a hangar lease agreement for a
leased site which will conform to the current airport layout plan (master plan)
the application for which should provide assurance that the proposed
construction will conform to the following.
   (A)   The structures shall be designed for a minimum roof load (snow or live
load) of 30 pounds per square foot on the horizontal projection.
   (B)   The structures shall be designed for a minimum wind load of 20 pounds
per square foot on the vertical walls and the vertical projector of the roof
plus a minimum of 15 pounds per square foot uplift normal to the roof surfaces.
   (C)   All steel structural members shall be in accord with the 1962 Edition
of AISI Specification for the design of light gage cold-formed steel structural
members; and all timber structural members be in accord with Timber
Construction Standards, AITC 100-65 of the American Institute of Timber
Construction.
   (D)   Applicants shall build so as to accommodate the addition of a hard
surface floor; all developed hangar sites are graded to final floor elevation.
Applicants shall be encouraged to construct portland cement concrete floors or
other satisfactory hard surface floors during initial construction.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for a hangar site to
provide the necessary ramp or tread runs from the hangar floor to the nearest
taxiway surface.
   (F)   All hangars shall use a door design which will assure that all parts
of said doors are confined within the limits of the main hangar structure.
   (G)   Construction shall not commence until the owner has secured a proper
building permit from the city.
   (H)   All hangars shall maintain a minimum of four feet from adjacent
property lines.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-4-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Declaration of concern and intent.
      (1)   The physical appearance of residential neighborhoods make a
significant contribution to the total community image. The allowance of a
reasonable amount of vehicular parking and storage without having a detrimental
effect upon residential neighborhoods is needed and is customarily accessory to
residential uses. It is necessary to regulate the location for parking and
storage of vehicles in order to prevent the creation of pedestrian and
vehicular safety hazards. Vehicle parking and storage can adversely impact the
character of residential neighborhoods, therefore it is necessary to:
         (a)   Limit the number of vehicles which can be parked or stored
outside of a building;
         (b)   Establish the areas in which recreational vehicles can be
stored; and
         (c)   Impose weight limitations upon the types of vehicles which can
be stored in residential areas.
      (2)   The regulations prescribed in this section shall not supersede nor
nullify private covenants that may lawfully impose other restrictions on the
use of property.
   (B)   Vehicle parking and storage restrictions within residential areas. It
shall be illegal to park or store in a residential area:
      (1)   Any vehicle within the public right-of-way at a location other than
the immediate vicinity of the owner’s primary residence;
      (2)   Any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 35,000 pounds or
greater within the public right-of-way;
      (3)   Any construction vehicle, equipment, or trailer required to move
such equipment within the public right-of-way; and/or
      (4)   Any vehicle in a driveway in such a manner that it creates a
pedestrian or vehicular safety hazard.
   (C)   Limitation on number of vehicles; outside. Subject to division (B)
above, the maximum number of vehicles which may be parked or stored by any
individual is one vehicle per licensed driver up to three per dwelling. This
limitation shall apply to the parking and storage of vehicles on or in the
public right-of-way within the vicinity of the individual’s primary residence.
This restriction shall not apply to the parking of guests’ vehicles as long as
said parking does not exceed ten days.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles (RVs) and all trailers; parking and storage
limits.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         RV. A vehicle used primarily for sport, amusement, or leisure travel.
A vehicle which meets the definition of a RV and is used primarily for personal
transportation on a daily basis shall not be classified as a RV.
      (2)   RV parking and storage restrictions.
         (a)   Any vehicle which is parked in the same vicinity for over 24
hours is presumed to be stored.
         (b)   Storage of RVs is prohibited within the public right-of-way or
in city public parking lots.
      (3)   Limitations.
         (a)   No RV shall be used in such a manner as to constitute a
temporary dwelling unit except in a RV park.
         (b)   No RV shall be temporarily or permanently connected to
wastewater or drinking water lines or a source of electricity while parked in
the public right-of-way.
   (E)   Parking and storage variance permits; requirement; criteria and fee.
      (1)   Except as set forth in division (C) above, parking or storage of
any vehicle in violation of the regulations set forth in divisions (A) through
(D) above may be allowed only with a parking variance permit issued by the City
Finance Officer. Authorization for such a permit will be granted only if all of
the following are met:
         (a)   An application is made to the city and approved by the City
Finance Officer;
         (b)   A fee of $5 per application is paid at the time the application
is submitted to the City Finance Officer;
         (c)   The applicant demonstrates a need for the variance permit;
         (d)   The proposed location of the vehicle will not create a
pedestrian or vehicular safety problem. To determine if a pedestrian or
vehicular safety problem exists for the proposed location of the vehicle, the
City Finance Officer shall consider the following factors: the speed limit;
vehicular traffic volume; pedestrian traffic volume; sight distance; and
physical design characteristics of the sidewalk and street; and
         (e)   The granting of the parking variance permit will not have an
adverse impact upon the surrounding properties and neighbors.
      (2)   A parking variance permit issued by the City Finance Officer shall
be valid only for the period stated on the permit. No parking variance permit
may be issued by the City Finance Officer for a period to exceed the date of
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (3)   If an applicant requests a period of time longer than allowed under
division (E)(2) above or if the holder of a permit issued by the City Finance
Officer requests an extension of said permit, then the application required
under division (E)(1) above shall be presented to the City Council for
approval. The City Council shall apply the standards set forth under division
(E)(1) above before any permit may be granted. No permit issued under this
division (E)(3) may be issued by the City Council for a period longer than 30
days.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-17-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 ZONING ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city adopts by reference the zoning ordinance entitled “Zoning Ordinance
- An Ordinance for the Regulation and Administration of Land Use in the City of
Faith”.
(Ord. 220, passed 2-7-1989)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Permits
   
151.01   Building permits
Moving Buildings
   
151.15   License required
   
151.16   Applications
   
151.17   Surety bond
   
151.18   Standing buildings
   
151.19   Permission of property owners
Encroachments in the Public Right-of-Way
   
151.30   Definition
   
151.31   Permits
   
151.32   Administration of permits
   
151.33   Rights not conveyed
   
151.34   Permit fee
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.01 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   A separate building permit will be required for any structure (to
include trailers and/or mobile homes) prior to constructing, converting,
enlarging, moving, or demolishing within the corporate limits of the city. No
building permit will be required for normal maintenance of existing buildings
or the repair necessary to facilitate such maintenance.
   (B)   An application shall be completed describing the character of the
proposed structure to be constructed, converted, enlarged, moved, removed, or
demolished including, but not limited to, a description of the materials to be
used, dimensions, and other particulars as to type, quality, and size. Building
permit applications are available in the City Finance Office.
   (C)   Said application shall be filed with the City Finance Officer and
presented to the City Council at its next regular or special meeting. It shall
be unlawful to construct, convert, enlarge, move, remove, or demolish or in any
matter proceed until the permit is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 243, passed 2-21-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 151.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building or part of building into, along, or across
any public street, alley, or grounds in the city without having obtained a
moving license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.0401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Written application for a moving license shall be filed with the
Finance Officer, and shall include the name of the applicant, the name of the
owner of the building, a description of the lot on which such building is
standing and the lot to which it is to be moved, if located in the city, the
route along which it is proposed to move such building, and the length of time
which may be consumed in such moving.
   (B)   Any application so filed shall be considered by the City Council for
approval and any other conditions to be complied with by the applicant shall be
stated thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7.0402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 SURETY BOND.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its discretion, require the applicant to file
with the Finance Officer a bond running to the city in the penal sum to be
established by the City Council, with sufficient surety, and conditioned that
the applicant will promptly repair and make good, to the satisfaction of the
Council, any and all damage to any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant,
street, alley, or other property, done or caused by himself or herself or his
or her employees, in moving such building or part thereof, or in connection
with the moving thereof.
   (B)   The applicant shall indemnify and save harmless the city against any
and all liability for damages, costs, and expenses arising or which may arise
or be incurred in favor of any person by reason of any negligence or misconduct
or act on his or her part or the part of his or her agents or employees, in
connection with the moving of said building or part thereof, or the use of any
public ground for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7.0403) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 STANDING BUILDINGS.
   No building or part of a building being moved shall be allowed to stand
still in any public street or any public ground for more than 24 consecutive
hours.
(Prior Code, § 7.0404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 PERMISSION OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No moving license granted by the city shall authorize the holder thereof to
break, injure, or move any telephone or electrical light or power wire or pole,
or to cut, trim, or otherwise interfere with any trees or to damage, or in any
manner interfere with, any property without the written permission of the owner
or owners thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.0405) Penalty, see §
10.99
ENCROACHMENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 151.30 DEFINITION.
   An ENCROACHMENT INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY is defined as any intrusion,
irrespective of height or size, into a sidewalk, street, or other public right-
of-way and includes, but is not limited to, fill material, retaining walls,
rockeries, plants either deliberately planted or growing from adjacent
property, or any other material or structures.
(Ord. 315, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 151.31 PERMITS.
   (A)   An encroachment into a public right-of-way (ROW) is not allowed
without an encroachment permit issued by the city.
   (B)   An encroachment permit shall not be granted when any of the following
conditions are present:
      (1)   The city has a planned project to utilize the portion of the ROW in
which the encroachment is proposed;
      (2)   The proposed encroachment would create an immediate sight distance
obstruction at intersections, or, if in the case of flora, could reasonably
grow into a sight distance obstruction or other obstruction;
      (3)   Utility lines near the proposed obstruction would render
maintenance of the utility lines more difficult;
      (4)   The proposed encroachment would create a public nuisance;
      (5)   The proposed encroachment would create a safety hazard to
motorists, bicyclists, or pedestrians; or
      (6)   The proposed encroachment would obstruct the maintenance of public
roads, shoulders, and/or stormwater systems or otherwise increase the cost to
maintain those city improvements.
(Ord. 315, passed 11-3-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.32 ADMINISTRATION OF PERMITS.
   Any encroachment permit issued by the city shall include provisions for the
following:
   (A)   Specify the type and location of materials, plants, or structures to
be allowed in the right-of-way;
   (B)   A property survey or other similar diagram showing the location, with
precise measurements from the right-of-way, of each encroachment shall be
provided by applicant and shall be attached to the final encroachment permit;
   (C)   Specify the rights and responsibilities of the city and the adjacent
land owner for maintenance and eventual removal of the encroachment;
   (D)   Make provisions for future access to the right-of-way for utilities,
drainage, vehicles, and pedestrians;
   (E)   Protect the public health and safety;
   (F)   State that the city shall be entitled to revoke an encroachment permit
and that the property owner shall return the property to the same or better
condition than existed prior to the encroachment;
   (G)   A hold-harmless agreement and certificate of insurance indemnifying
the city;
   (H)   The encroachment permit or other encroachment agreement shall be
recorded in the County Register of Deeds office and that the applicant shall
pay any applicable recording fee thereon; and
   (I)   Other criteria deemed necessary by the Council in light of each
individual application.
(Ord. 315, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 151.33 RIGHTS NOT CONVEYED.
   An encroachment permit shall not constitute a surrender by the city of any
property rights to the right-of-way.
(Ord. 315, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 151.34 PERMIT FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of $500 shall be charged for each
encroachment permit application, regardless of whether the permit is granted or
not.
(Ord. 315, passed 11-3-2015)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Streets
   
152.02   Street surfacing
   
152.03   Sidewalks
   
152.04   Driveway approaches
   
152.05   Curb and gutter
   
152.06   Permits
Street Names and Addresses
   
152.20   Name of streets and avenues
Snow and Ice Removal
   
152.35   Duty to remove
   
152.36   Disposal of snow
   
152.37   Removal costs assessed
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STREETS.
   (A)   A 36-foot roadway shall be maintained between curbs whenever
practical, with streets platted at 66 feet in width having a distance of 15
feet from property line (inside of sidewalk) to curb, with slope of one-fourth
inch per foot toward street.
   (B)   The crown of the street or avenue should be the same height as the
curb.
   (C)   Any deviations shall be authorized by the City Council.
   (D)   Only Street Department personnel or other authorized persons shall be
permitted to work on any of the streets or avenues in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 STREET SURFACING.
   Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, the original hard surfacing
of streets shall be at the expense of the owners of the property abutting the
street(s) to be hard surfaced with materials approved by the City Council.
Total cost of the street improvement, including legal, engineering, grading,
and any other costs related to the improvement, shall be assessed against the
property on a frontage foot basis. The cost of each street or alley
intersection shall be assessed to all lots according to area so as to include
one-half of the property between the street improved and the next street,
whether such property abuts upon such street or not, but in no case shall such
property situated more than 300 feet from such intersection be assessed. When
the improvement is in or upon any alley, the assessment area shall be confined
to the property within the block or blocks improved, and if not platted into
blocks, to the property within 150 feet of such alley.
(Prior Code, § 7.0202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 SIDEWALKS.
   Unless otherwise determined by the City Council, the inside of the sidewalk
shall be the property line. Sidewalk construction shall include base material
of three inches in thickness of approved materials. Sidewalks shall be no less
than three and one-half inches in thickness, of portland cement construction,
and not less than four feet nor more than five feet wide in residential areas,
with slope toward street of one-fourth inch per foot. When considered necessary
and advisable for the peace, welfare, and safety of the people, the City
Council may direct that new sidewalk be constructed and assessed to any
abutting property owner in accordance with SDCL Ch. 9-46.
(Prior Code, § 7.0203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   No driveway approaches shall protrude or extend into the streets
beyond the curb line, unless otherwise so authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   Concrete driveway approaches shall be of four-inch portland cement
construction, with the slope gradual to accommodate modern vehicles.
   (C)   On gravel thoroughfares, driveway approaches constructed shall permit
flow of surface water without drainage interference and shall permit proper
blading and maintaining of streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.0204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 CURB AND GUTTER.
   Curb and gutter shall be of portland cement construction, not less than
3,000 psi, with curb six inches in width, and extending six inches above the
gutter. Gutter shall be of six and one-half inch thickness, extending 24 inches
into the street. The City Council may direct that curb and gutter be
constructed and the cost assessed against any abutting property owner. Curb may
be constructed without gutter upon prior approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.0205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 PERMITS.
   When constructed separately from an overall construction project, property
owners or their agents shall submit applications for permits for approval by
the City Council for sidewalks, driveway approaches, curbs, or curb and gutter.
When these improvements are constructed simultaneously or as one project, only
one application is necessary to include all improvements, and when any or all
are part of new construction projects, only one permit for the overall
construction shall be issued. All improvements, installations, and engineering
recommendations shall be in conformance with specifications or recommendations
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.0206) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSES
§ 152.20 NAME OF STREETS AND AVENUES.
   The names of all streets and avenues in the city shall be fixed and adopted
in accordance with the official map of the city on file in the Finance Office.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the City Council from changing the
names of all streets and avenues by subsequent ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7.0101)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 152.35 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or person in possession of any
property abutting on any sidewalk to keep such sidewalk free from snow and to
cause any accumulated snow to be removed from any such abutting sidewalk within
24 hours after the termination of any snowfall or snow accumulation.
(Prior Code, § 7.0301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.36 DISPOSAL OF SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant, or person in possession
of any private driveway, parking lot, or parking area to dispose of accumulated
snow upon such property in such manner that any snow when removed shall not be
deposited upon any sidewalk, within or upon any public street or alley, or in a
manner that will obstruct or interfere with the passage or vision of vehicle or
pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.0302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.37 REMOVAL COSTS ASSESSED.
   In the event any owner, tenant, or person in possession of any property
shall neglect or fail to or refuse to remove such snow or ice within the time
provided, any police officer of the city may issue a citation for such
violation and the City Council may authorize such removal with the costs to be
assessed against the abutting property owner.
(Prior Code, § 7.0303)
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING NUMBERING
Section
   
153.01   Designation
   
153.02   Central point
   
153.03   Numbering north and south avenues
   
153.04   Numbering east and west streets
   
153.05   Issuance
   
153.06   Numbering intervals
   
153.07   Display of numbers
   
153.08   Specifications for numbers
   
153.09   Cost assessed
§ 153.01 DESIGNATION.
   Buildings on the east or south side of any street or avenue shall be given
even numbers, and the buildings on the west or north side thereof shall be
given odd numbers.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.02 CENTRAL POINT.
   All buildings on the streets and avenues of the city shall be numbered,
commencing from First Street and Main Street, and shall be numbered north,
south, east and west from First Street and Main Street, as the case may be, as
far as the streets or avenues may be extended.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.03 NUMBERING NORTH AND SOUTH AVENUES.
   On all streets and avenues intersecting Main Street and running north and
south the first block to the north or south of Main Street shall be numbered
100, north or south as the case may be, and the numbers shall be increased at
the rate of 100 for each block or space between two streets, north or south of
Main Street. The first number to the north or south of any intersection of the
streets and avenues running north and south shall be a multiple of 100, and
therefrom within each block the buildings or lots shall be numbered
consecutively to the north or south as the case may be. To designate the
numbers on streets or avenues running north and south of Main Street, the word
“north” or “south” shall be placed between the number and name of the street or
avenue, as the street may be north or south of Main Street.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.04 NUMBERING EAST AND WEST STREETS.
   On all streets and avenues intersecting First Street and running east and
west the first block to the east or west of First Street shall be numbered 100,
east or west as the case may be, and the numbers shall be increased at the rate
of 100 for each block or space between two streets, east or west of First
Street. The first number to the east or west of any intersection of the streets
and avenues running east and west shall be a multiple of 100, and therefrom
within each block the buildings or lots shall be numbered consecutively to the
east or west as the case may be. To designate the numbers on streets or avenues
running east and west of First Avenue the word “east” or “west” shall be used
between the number and the name of the street or avenue, as the street may be
east or west of First Avenue.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.05 ISSUANCE.
   The city is hereby authorized and directed to issue numbers for each
building, business place, dwelling house or lot fronting on a street or avenue
in the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.06 NUMBERING INTERVALS.
   From the corner of each block nearest its respective central point, each
building lot shall be assigned a specific number.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.07 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Every person having a home or business establishment within the city
is required to display in a prominent place upon his or her home or business
establishment the street or avenue number assigned by the city engineer as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to commencing construction of any new home or business
establishment within the city, the assigned address number shall be placed on
the lot on which construction will take place and shall be clearly visible from
the street, avenue or roadway and shall be maintained until a permanent address
number is placed on the structure.
   (C)   Prior to occupancy of any structure, the permanent address number of
the size specified by this chapter shall be affixed on the structure.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.08 SPECIFICATIONS FOR NUMBERS.
   (A)   Each numeral of the street number displayed by each person pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall not be less than two inches in width with
a minimum stroke width of one-half inches and not less than four inches in
height.
   (B)   The street or avenue number shall be so located on the structure on a
contrasting background so that it is clearly visible from the street, avenue,
or roadway from which the address is taken.
   (C)   If the length of the driveway/access way exceeds 75 feet or a physical
obstruction prevents the number from being visible from the street, avenue, or
roadway of which the address is taken, then the street or avenue number shall
be posted adjacent to the area in which the driveway/access way visible
intersects the street, avenue, or roadway so that the number is clearly visible
from the street, avenue, or roadway from which the address is taken.
   (D)   Multi-building campus/complex developments addressed on private or
public streets shall be provided with signage at the entrance to the campus/
complex indicative of the address ranges within.
   (E)   The posted street or avenue numbers must be placed in such a way as to
ensure its visibility year round and not be obstructed by such things as, but
not limited to, snow or vegetation, to provide for emergency identification at
all times.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 153.09 COST ASSESSED.
   If the owner or occupant of any dwelling house, building, business
establishment fronting on a street or avenue within the city shall fail, refuse
or neglect to place the number, or replace the number, when necessary, the city
code enforcement official may cause a notice to be served by registered mail on
the owner or occupant at the owner or occupant’s last known address, ordering
the appropriate correction. If after ten days following service by the code
enforcement official the owner or occupant of noncompliant property within the
city continues to fail, neglects or refuses to place numbers on a building as
required by this article, the city may cause the numbers to be installed, and
the owner will be billed for the cost of the numbers and for the cost of
installation.
(Ord. 330, passed 11-6-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants Midcontinent Cable Systems Co. nonexclusive rights
206      3-4-1986    for the purpose of transmission of cable television
                     signals for a period of 15 years.
                     Extends the expiration date of the cable television
257      5-1-2001    franchise with Midcontinent Communications until October
                     1, 2001.
                     Extends the expiration date of the cable television
261      10-16-2001  franchise with Midcontinent Communications until April 1,
                     2002.
                     Extends the expiration date of the cable television
272      4-1-2003    franchise with Midcontinent Communications until April 1,
                     2004.
                     Grants West River Cable Television nonexclusive rights for
303      3-19-2013   the purpose of transmission of cable television signals
                     for a period of 20 years.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section                          Code Section
Title 1                               Charter §
                                      1.03
1-25-1.1                              31.36
6-1-2                                 31.22
                                      Charter §
Title 9                               1.04, Charter §
                                      2.06
9-1-1                                 10.02,
                                      10.04
9-13-13                               10.04
9-14                                  31.01
9-19-1                                10.04
9-46                                  152.03
                                      32.02,
                                      32.05,
10-45                                 32.31,
                                      32.33,
                                      32.99
                                      32.03,
10-46                                 32.05,
                                      32.99
10-52                                 32.01,
                                      32.04
                                      32.30,
10-52A                                32.32,
                                      32.34
11-4                                  33.01
11-6                                  33.01
11-6-2                                33.01
11-6-14 through 11-6-39               33.10
21-10-33                              130.02
32-3 to 32-5B                         70.15
32-3-18                               70.16
32-9-3                                70.15
32-15-20                              70.30
32-17-46                              70.30
32-20-1                               70.15
                                      114.03 -
34-20G                                114.05,
                                      114.10
34-20G-1                              114.02
35-1-1                                32.31
35-4-2                                112.09
35-4-11                               112.11
35-4-2(3), (5), (12), (17A), and (19) 112.26
35-4-2(4) and (6)                     112.26,
                                      113.07
35-4-2(4), (6), and (12)              112.26
35-4-2(4), (6), and (16)              112.25,
                                      112.26
35-4-2(16) and (17)                   112.11
35-4-19(2)                            112.26
35-4-81                               112.05,
                                      112.06
35-4-124                              112.25,
                                      112.26
35-12                                 112.26
36-16                                 110.20
36-25                                 110.20
38-21                                 51.18
Title 46                              51.18
47-9A                                 51.18
49-07A                                50.13
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2018 Code
Prior Code 2018 Code
1.0101     31.01
1.0102     31.02
1.0201     31.15
1.0202     31.16
1.0203     31.17
1.0204     31.18
1.0205     31.19
1.0206     31.20
1.0207     31.21
1.0301     31.35
1.0302     31.36
1.0303     31.37
1.0304     31.38
1.0305     31.39
1.0306     31.40
1.0307     31.41
1.0308     31.42
1.0309     31.43
1.0310     31.44
2.0101     30.01
3.0101     92.01
3.0102     92.02
3.0201     55.01
3.0202     55.02
3.0203     55.03
3.0204     55.04
3.0205     55.99
4.0101     110.01
4.0102     110.02
4.0103     110.03
4.0104     110.04
4.0105     110.05
4.0106     110.06
4.0107     110.99
4.0301     110.20
4.0401     30.03
5.0201     131.01
5.0202     131.02
5.0203     131.03
5.0204     131.04
5.0205     131.05
5.0206     131.06
5.0207     131.07
5.0208     131.08
5.0301     91.01
5.0302     91.02
5.0303     91.03
5.0304     91.04
5.0305     91.05
5.0306     91.06
5.0307     91.07
5.0308     91.08
5.0401     130.01
5.0402     130.03
5.0403     130.04
5.0501     132.01
5.0502     132.02
5.0503     132.03
6.0101     70.01
6.0102     70.02
6.0103     70.03
6.0104     70.04
6.0105     70.31
6.0201     71.01
6.0202     71.02
6.0203     71.03
6.0204     71.04
6.0205     71.05
6.0206     71.06
6.0207     71.07
6.0208     71.08
6.0209     71.09
6.0210     71.10
6.0211     71.11
6.0212     71.12
6.0213     71.13
6.0214     71.14
6.0215     71.15
6.0216     71.16
6.0217     71.17
6.0218     71.18
6.0219     71.19
6.0220     71.20
6.0301     71.21
6.0302     71.21
6.0401     72.01
6.0402     72.02
6.0403     72.03
6.0404     72.04
6.0405     72.05
7.0101     152.20
7.0201     152.01
7.0202     152.02
7.0203     152.03
7.0204     152.04
7.0205     152.05
7.0206     152.06
7.0301     152.35
7.0302     152.36
7.0303     152.37
7.0304     Chapter 73 Schedule I
7.0305     Chapter 73 Schedule I
7.0306     Chapter 73 Schedule I
7.0401     151.15
7.0402     151.16
7.0403     151.17
7.0404     151.18
7.0405     151.19
7.0501     90.01
7.0502     90.02
7.06       90.15
8.0401     53.01
8.0402     53.02
8.0403     53.03
8.0404     53.04
8.0501     54.01
8.0502     54.02
8.0503     54.03
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
04-07-87-01 4-7-1987    52.09
02-15-01    - -2015     55.01
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
124      - -         90.15
205      2-4-1986    150.01
206      3-4-1986    TSO Table I
                     52.01 -
                     52.09,
213      4-7-1987    52.20 -
                     52.25,
                     52.99
215      1-19-1988   33.01 -
                     33.10
220      2-7-1989    150.03
243      2-21-1995   151.01
244      6-20-1995   31.35
248      5-7-1996    31.23
252      12-1-1998   72.02,
                     Chapter 73 Schedule I
257      5-1-2001    TSO Table I
261      10-16-2001  TSO Table I
265      2-5-2002    30.02
269      8-27-2002   112.11
272      4-1-2003    TSO Table I
                     32.30 -
268      7-15-2003   32.34,
                     32.99
279      5-17-2005   150.02
                     32.01 -
282      10-4-2006   32.05,
                     32.99
                     111.01 -
287      5-7-2008    111.07,
                     111.20 -
                     111.33
                     112.01 -
288      8-5-2008    112.10,
                     112.99
292      3-3-2009    130.01,
                     130.02
295      6-22-2010   70.30,
                     70.99
303      3-19-2013   TSO Table I
304      3-19-2013   112.25,
                     112.26
                     50.01 -
308      11-5-2013   50.21,
                     51.01 -
                     51.12
312      5-4-2015    71.22
315      11-3-2015   151.30 -
                     151.34
321      8-16-2016   31.22
327      7-2-2018    Adopting Ordinance
                     51.13 -
                     51.20,
329      11-20-2018  51.99,
                     52.26 -
                     52.28
330      11-6-2018   153.01 -
                     153.09
332      2-7-2019    72.03
333      2-19-2019   131.09
334      2-19-2019   72.02
335      7-16-2019   92.01
336      7-16-2019   90.16
341      9-1-2020    71.23
                     114.01 -
347      11-2-2021   114.15,
                     114.99
355      12-20-2022  114.04
358      1-31-2023   72.02,
                     Chapter 73 Schedule I
360      8-15-2023   91.01
                    
 
