FLANDREAU, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 624, passed 11-4-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the City of Flandreau
Code of Ordinances for which designated code of ordinances may be substituted.
Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CITY. The City of Flandreau, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Moody County, South Dakota.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees, the Board of Commissioners, or the
Common Council, as the case may be, of the City of Flandreau.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Flandreau, South Dakota.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of Moody County or his or her heirs or successors.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision, or direction of the governing body
of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. South Dakota.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance or
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except as this code of ordinances otherwise specifically or additionally
provides, any person or persons, firm, or corporation, violating any of the
provisions thereof shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, imprisonment in
jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
The fine may be served in jail at the rate equal to the rate provided for by
state law. Each act of a violation and each day upon which a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense for which a penalty can be imposed.
(Ord. 597, passed 5-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries
   
11.02   Wards
   
11.03   Voting precincts
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory embraced within the original town site
together with all subsequent additions taken into the city since that time
unless there is territory legally excluded there from.
(Prior Code, § 2.1.1)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   (A) The city is divided into three wards designated respectively as the
First, Second, and Third Wards and described herein.
      (1)   First Ward. The First Ward shall constitute all that portion of the
city bound on the north by the city limits; bound on the east by the city
limits; bound on the south by the city limits; bound on the west by the
centerline of Crescent Street from W. Ross Avenue to First Avenue, by the
centerline of Wind Street from First Avenue to Third Avenue, by the centerline
of Crescent Street from Third Avenue to Lafayette Avenue, by the centerline of
Wind Street from Lafayette Avenue to Alton Avenue, and by the centerline of
Center Street from Alton Avenue to Inkpa Duta Road.
      (2)   Second Ward. The Second Ward shall constitute all that part of the
city bound on the north by the city limits; on the west by the city limits; on
the east by the centerline of Crescent Street from W. Ross Avenue to First
Avenue and by the centerline of Wind Street from First Avenue to Third Avenue;
and on the south by the centerline of Third Avenue from Crescent Street to
Industrial Road and the centerline of Pipestone Avenue from Industrial Road to
that part of the city bound on the west by the city limits.
      (3)   Third Ward. The Third Ward shall constitute all of the remainder of
the city described as that part of the city bound on the north by the
centerline of Third Avenue from Crescent Street to Industrial Road and the
centerline of Pipestone Avenue from Industrial Road to that part of the city
bound on the west by the city limits; on the south by the city limits; and on
the east by the centerline of Crescent Street from Third Avenue to Lafayette
Avenue, by the centerline of Wind Street from Lafayette Avenue to Alton Avenue,
and by the centerline of Center Street from Alton Avenue to Inkpa Duta Road.
   (B)   When the results of the decennial census are received, ward
populations will be reviewed by the City Council, and adjusted as may be
required by state law.
(Ord. 607, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 11.03 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Each ward of the city shall constitute an election precinct, and the
polling places in said precincts shall be as designated by the governing body
by resolution from time to time.
   (B) The following is a representation of the voter ward analysis from 2010.
 
Wards  Optimal Target Population Population Deviation Percentage Deviation
       Population
Ward I 780            793        13                   1.67%
Ward 2 780            771        -9                   -1.15%
Ward 3 780            777        -3                   -0.38%
Total Percentage Deviation (Positive and Negative): 3.30%
 
                  White Population Native American
Wards  Total      (64.2% of Total  Population      Percent White Percent Native
       Population Population)      (27.7% of Total               American
                                   Population)
Ward 1 793        580              140             73.1%         17.7%
Ward 2 771        529              175             68.6%         22.7%
Ward 3 777        395              334             50.8%         43.0%
 
(Prior Code, § 2.3.1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   MUNICIPAL HOSPITAL
      
34.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Duties of Mayor
   
30.02   President and Vice President of City Council
   
30.03   City Council meetings
   
30.04   Notice of special meetings
§ 30.01 DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall:
   (A)   Preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have no vote except
in case of a tie;
   (B)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the laws and
ordinances and take care that such laws and ordinances are faithfully executed;
   (C)   Annually and from time to time give the Council information relative
to the affairs of the city and shall recommend for their consideration on such
measures as the Mayor may deem expedient; and
   (D)   Have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or resolution passed by
the Council and the power to veto any part or item of any ordinance or
resolution appropriating money as provided for by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.1)
§ 30.02 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting after the annual election in each year
and after the qualification of the newly elected Aldermen, the Council shall
elect from among its own members a President and Vice President, who shall hold
their respective offices for the municipal year.
   (B)   The President of the Council, in the absence of the Mayor, shall be
presiding officer of the Council and, during the Mayor’s absence, shall be
acting Mayor and possess all of the powers of the Mayor.
   (C)   In the absence or disability of the Mayor and President of the
Council, the Vice President shall perform the duties of the Mayor and President
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.4)
§ 30.03 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Unless otherwise determined and announced, regular meetings of the governing
body shall be held in the City Council Chambers, 1005 W. Elm Avenue, Flandreau,
South Dakota, on the first and third Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Special
meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor to consider such matters as may
be mentioned in the call for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.2) (Ord. 540, passed - -)
§ 30.04 NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The City Finance Officer shall issue written notice of each special meeting
stating by what authority the meeting is called, the time and place of holding
such meeting, and the matters to be considered.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.3)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   City Administrator
   
31.02   Appointment of officers
   
31.03   Compensation and bonds for appointed officers
   
31.04   Rate of pay, overtime, and employee benefits
§ 31.01 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. The office of the City Administrator is hereby
created. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of
the city and shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city.
   (B)   Appointment of City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the City Council
for an indefinite term.
   (C)   Powers and duties of City Administrator. The City Administrator shall
perform all duties and have all powers as provided by law and by resolution or
motion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.1) (Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the first regular meeting in May of each year, there shall be appointed
by the governing body a City Attorney and other such officers as may be
provided by ordinance to hold office until the appointment and qualification of
their successors. The Mayor shall make all such appointments with the approval
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.2)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION AND BONDS FOR APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor, Council members, and appointed
officers and employees shall be set by the resolution of the City Council at a
regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.3)
   (B)   Appointed officers of the city shall furnish bonds to be approved by
the City Council in such sum as may be determined by resolution or ordinance
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. Appointed officers
shall account and pay over and deliver all monies or property coming into their
hands by virtue of their office.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.4)
§ 31.04 RATE OF PAY, OVERTIME, AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The city, in reference to employees of the city, shall comply with
applicable state or federal wage and hour laws.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.5)
   (B)   Employee benefits shall be those as set forth in the city’s personnel
policy.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.6)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Public Safety Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   General authority
   
32.03   Meetings
   
32.04   Composition and appointment
   
32.05   Terms
   
32.06   Removal and vacancy of members
   
32.07   Organization
   
32.08   City Council liaison
Police Department
   
32.20   Members
   
32.21   Chief of Police
   
32.22   Appointment of Police Department
   
32.23   Duties of police officers
   
32.24   Personnel policies
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established in and for the city a Public Safety
Commission, or Commission, for the purpose of advising the city and, in the
event that the city has an agreement with the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe
(FSST) to provide law enforcement services, the FSST in all community relation
issues with the city’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.1) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.02 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Commission shall have the power and authority to advise the Mayor, City
Council, and the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe (FSST) on matters pertaining to
law enforcement community relations. The Commission shall receive and review
complaints against the city’s Police Department and, to the extent permissible
by law, shall have the power to require the production of evidence in
furtherance of this purpose and to make a recommendation to the governing
bodies on a proper course of action.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.8) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.03 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall hold meetings as needed at a time and place to be
established by it. The Chairperson of the Commission may call special meetings
at any time by giving 24 hours’ advance notice to all other members including
the Council liaison member. A quorum shall consist of three members.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.6) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.04 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Commission shall be composed of five members, consisting of two members
of the City Council, two members of the FSST Executive Committee, and one
member from the community at large. No person employed by the city as a law
enforcement officer or any member of that person’s immediate family shall be a
voting member of the Commission. For the purposes of this chapter, IMMEDIATE
FAMILY shall be defined as a group of relations consisting of, but not limited
to, the person’s parents, spouses, siblings, children, grandparents,
grandchildren, siblings-in-law, half-siblings, adopted children, stepparents,
and stepchildren. The at-large Commission appointment shall be made by the
Mayor and the Tribal President, with the consent of their respective governing
bodies.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.2) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.05 TERMS.
   The members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of four years.
Initially, the terms shall be shortened and staggered to provide for renewal of
terms at different times. No members shall serve more than two full consecutive
terms. Serving less than one year of an unexpired term shall not be counted as
service of one term.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.3) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.06 REMOVAL AND VACANCY OF MEMBERS.
   Any member of the Commission appointed by the city shall be subject to
removal by the majority vote of the entire membership of the City Council after
recommendation of removal by the Mayor or two-thirds’ majority of the City
Council. In the event of vacancy in any membership on the Commission caused by
death, resignation, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment
by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council except, and unless, the
vacancy was in a position that had been filled by the FSST, and in that event,
the FSST shall determine how the vacancy shall be filled. For the position that
is held by the community at large, removal shall be made upon the joint
recommendation of the Mayor and the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribal President and
upon the majority vote of their respective government bodies.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.4) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.07 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Commission shall elect from among themselves one person
to serve as Chairperson, one to serve as Vice Chairperson, and one to serve as
Secretary. Each office is held for one year and the initial terms shall expire
at the end of the second calendar year that the Commission is organized.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.7)
§ 32.08 CITY COUNCIL LIAISON.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint a member of the
City Council to act as a non-voting liaison member of the Commission to
facilitate communication between the Commission and the City Council. If, by
agreement, the FSST shall be appointing some of the membership of the
Commission, the FSST, if desired, may appoint another person as a non-voting
liaison member of the Commission to facilitate communication between the
Commission and the FSST.
(Prior Code, § 3.1.5) (Ord. 523, passed - -)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 MEMBERS.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Police Chief and such number of
police officers as may be necessary for the enforcement of all laws and
ordinances under its jurisdiction, for the protection of the general public,
and for the enforcement of all laws of the FSST if it has an agreement with the
city for law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.1)
§ 32.21 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Police Chief shall provide leadership, direction, and management of the
Police Department and shall be under the supervision of the City Administrator.
The Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe Contract Administrator will work with the City
Administrator to ensure contract compliance.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.2) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.22 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The members of the Police Department shall be selected and hired by
the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall have charge of the Police Department,
and each of the police officers shall serve under the Chief’s direction and
control or, in the case of the absence of the Chief, any other officer
designated by the Chief.
   (B)   Each police officer, when on duty, shall wear some insignia of the
office in a conspicuous place unless the circumstances are such that it is not
necessary or there is good reason not to have the insignia displayed.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.3) (Ord. 551, passed - -)
§ 32.23 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Police Chief and all officers serving in the Department shall possess
all powers conferred by state law and will generally have the responsibility to
suppress disorder, keep the peace, enforce all laws and ordinances under its
jurisdiction and the laws of the FSST if it has an agreement with the city for
law enforcement, and perform other duties requested by the Commission, city, or
FSST if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.4)
§ 32.24 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The Police Chief and all other employees of the Department shall be subject
to the personnel policies of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.2.5)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL HOSPITAL
Section
Hospital Board of Trustees
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   General authority
   
33.03   Meetings
   
33.04   Composition and appointment
   
33.05   Terms
   
33.06   Removal and vacancy of members
   
33.07   Officers
   
33.08   City Council liaison
   
33.09   Finances
   
33.10   Rules and regulations
   
33.11   Administrator/CEO
Administrator/CEO
   
33.25   Major responsibilities
   
33.26   Finances
   
33.27   Reporting
Medical Staff
   
33.40   Definition
   
33.41   Appointment
   
33.42   Bylaws
Lease of Hospital
   
33.55   Entering into lease
   
33.56   Board of Trustees
   
33.57   Suspending the Board of Trustees
HOSPITAL BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established in and for the city a Board of
Trustees to administer, control, and supervise the Flandreau Municipal
Hospital.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.1)
§ 33.02 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have power and authority to superintend,
manage, and control such public hospital. The Board shall have authority to
incur obligations, liabilities, and expense up to the bid limit pursuant to
state law provided said expenses are within the limits and framework of the
budget as approved by City Council. The City Council is to be kept informed of
all such expenses. Obligations not budgeted are to be approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.8)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to create a hospital staff
and shall have the power to make any and all rules and regulations for
supervision and control of said hospital staff. (See also § 33.41.)
(Prior Code, § 9.1.11)
§ 33.03 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold regular monthly meetings at a time and
place to be established by the Board. Advance written notice shall be given to
all Board members and Council liaison members. The Chairperson of the Board may
call special meetings at any time by giving 24 hours’ advance written notice to
all other members of the Board including the Council liaison members. A quorum
shall consist of three members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.6)
§ 33.04 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees provided for by this subchapter shall be composed of
five members, all of whom are duly qualified residents in the city for a period
of not less than three years prior to date of appointment. No person employed
at the Flandreau Municipal Hospital or members of the employee’s immediate
family shall be eligible for appointment to said Board of Trustees. The Mayor,
with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint members of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.2)
§ 33.05 TERMS.
   The Hospital Board of Trustees shall be appointed for terms of three years;
provided, at the first meeting of each year, one member shall be appointed. No
member shall serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.3)
§ 33.06 REMOVAL AND VACANCY OF MEMBERS.
   The Mayor shall subject any member of the Hospital Board of Trustees to
removal by the majority vote of the City Council after recommendation of
removal. In the event of vacancy in the membership of said Board of Trustees
caused by death, resignation, or removal, members to fill such vacancies shall
be made by appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council at a meeting of said Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.4)
§ 33.07 OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees created by this subchapter shall annually elect from
their members a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary who shall hold
their offices respectively for one year and until their successors have been
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.7)
§ 33.08 CITY COUNCIL LIAISON.
   The Mayor, with consent of the City Council, shall appoint a member of the
City Council to act as the means of liaison between the City Council and
Hospital Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.5)
§ 33.09 FINANCES.
   (A)   The Hospital Administrator shall collect all funds and revenues
derived from the operation of such hospital. A record of all such funds and
revenues shall be submitted to the City Finance Officer monthly.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.9)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees and City Council shall approve all expenses for
operation of the hospital. All warrants and payment for such expenses shall be
drawn on the Hospital Fund.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.10)
§ 33.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The medical staff bylaws’ rules and regulations shall be reviewed by the
Board of Trustees at the last regular meeting of the calendar year or at a
joint conference committee meeting. If any additions or corrections are
required, they shall be brought up for discussion and approval at this meeting.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.12)
§ 33.11 ADMINISTRATOR/CEO.
   The Board of Trustees, with the approval of the City Council, shall recruit,
evaluate, hire, and discipline an appropriate individual to provide leadership
and direction to the Flandreau Municipal Hospital.
(Prior Code, § 9.1.13)
ADMINISTRATOR/CEO
§ 33.25 MAJOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Hospital Administrator/CEO shall be empowered to carry out the
duties of his or her office and use means necessary to ensure the operation of
the hospital to comply with all required federal, state, and other regulations
and to ensure all personnel are conducting themselves accordingly.
   (B)   The Hospital Administrator shall select and maintain a staff necessary
for the maintenance, operation, and support of the Flandreau Municipal
Hospital. The CEO shall be empowered to fix the salaries of new employees and
the terms of their appointment with the consent of the Board of Trustees and
notification to the City Council. All other salary increases are to be
recommended by the Administrator and approved by the Trustees and City Council.
The Hospital Administrator/CEO shall purchase supplies, fuel, and goods for the
use, operation, and maintenance of the Flandreau Municipal Hospital.
   (C)   The Hospital Administrator shall make rules, schedules of charges, and
fees to be received for the care of patients and other services rendered and
sold by the Flandreau Municipal Hospital as deemed necessary to ensure the
financial success of the hospital and maintain a balanced budget. The Board of
Trustees shall be kept informed of any changes deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.1)
§ 33.26 FINANCES.
   (A)   The Hospital Administrator shall be empowered to collect fees for
services provided for by the hospital and, furthermore, is empowered to use
said fees for the continued operation, mission, and upkeep of the hospital as
deemed necessary with the consent of the Board of Trustees. (See also § 33.09
(A).)
   (B)   Vendors, employees, contractual services, and the like shall be paid
by a voucher system as required by the city. Frequency of said payment should
normally be monthly for contractual services and vendors and biweekly for
employee salaries. Special payment needs and/or additional payments may be
secured from the City Finance Office as needed by the Hospital Administrator/
CEO.
   (C)   All bills and/or financial commitments that pertain to the hospital
must receive approval from the Hospital Administrator/CEO prior to their
disbursement. The Hospital Administrator is responsible to ensure that said
bills relate to the operation of the hospital and its interests.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.2)
§ 33.27 REPORTING.
   The Hospital Administrator/CEO shall report to the Board of Trustees, the
City Council, and Mayor with the purpose to provide and explain the monthly
activities and financial report. An in-depth report shall be presented to both
previously mentioned boards at the close of the fiscal year or as soon as
possible thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 9.2.3)
MEDICAL STAFF
§ 33.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term MEDICAL STAFF shall be
interpreted to include all physicians, surgeons, and dentists who are
privileged to attend patients in the hospital. Flandreau Municipal Hospital
shall have an open staff.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.1)
§ 33.41 APPOINTMENT
   The Board of Trustees of the Flandreau Municipal Hospital shall appoint a
medical staff composed of physicians, surgeons, and dentists who are graduates
of medical schools approved by the American Medical Association, American
Osteopathic Association, and/or the American Dental Association. The Board
shall make such reasonable rules and regulations for the control of medical
practice in the hospital deemed to be of greatest benefit to the care of the
patient. All applications for appointment to the medical staff shall be in
writing and addressed to the Administrator/CEO of said hospital for review. The
medical staff must have a current valid license issued by the state to practice
medicine or dentistry and be of suitable moral character. The medical staff
must also meet or exceed the liability guidelines as established by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.2)
§ 33.42 BYLAWS.
   All members of the medical staff will be familiar with and abide by the
medical staff bylaws of the Flandreau Municipal Hospital.
(Prior Code, § 9.3.3)
LEASE OF HOSPITAL
§ 33.55 ENTERING INTO LEASE.
   In the event the city enters into an agreement to lease the building,
contents, and/or operation of the hospital to an outside entity, the foregoing
sections shall become subordinate to provisions contained in said agreement. To
the extent any of said sections are in direct conflict with any provision of
said agreement, those parts of this chapter shall no longer have any effect
unless or until said agreement is modified or terminated.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.1)
§ 33.56 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Whenever the operation of the Flandreau Municipal Hospital has been
delegated to another entity pursuant to a lease or other arrangement, the Board
of Trustees shall continue to serve in an advisory capacity as follows.
   (A)   Said Board and the City Council shall be entitled to have access to
the hospital’s premises to inspect and observe its operations.
   (B)   The Board and Council shall be entitled to examine all financial
records of the hospital’s operations except those that may be subject to a
particular patient’s or employee’s rights to confidentiality. Such access shall
be extended only to the extent necessary to evaluate the performance of the
entity’s obligations under its agreement with the city.
   (C)   Reports shall be made by the operating entity to said Board and
Council at least quarterly advising of the hospital’s operations insofar as
they relate to the entity’s obligations under its agreement with the city.
   (D)   Any action to be taken by the entity, with prior approval of the City
Council, shall first be reported to said Board before presenting to the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.2)
§ 33.57 SUSPENDING THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Whenever the operation of the Flandreau Municipal Hospital has been
delegated to another entity pursuant to a lease or other arrangement, the City
Council may suspend the Board of Trustees and serve in its place as follows.
      (1)   Said City Council shall be entitled to have access to the
hospital’s premises to inspect and observe its operations.
      (2)   The Council shall be entitled to examine all financial records of
the hospital’s operations except those that may be subject to a particular
patient’s or employee’s rights to confidentiality. Such access shall be
extended only to the extent necessary to evaluate the performance of the
entity’s obligations under its agreement with the city.
      (3)   Reports shall be made by the operating entity to the Council at
least quarterly advising of the hospital’s operations insofar as they relate to
the entity’s obligations under its agreement with the city.
      (4)   Any action to be taken by the entity that requires the approval of
the City Council must be presented to the Council no later than 30 days prior
to approval.
   (B)   In the event that the City Council suspends the Board of Trustees, and
until the Council has reinstated the Board, this section shall govern to the
extent that it is not inconsistent with the provisions contained in the lease
agreement or other arrangement.
(Prior Code, § 9.4.3) (Ord. 529, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Fee schedule
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city provides services to the general public for which the
collection of a fee or charge is permissible;
   (B)   Said fees and charges collected by the city may be set by the
enactment of a resolution; and
   (C)   The services indicated in §
34.02 necessitate the collection of a fee or charge, which fee or charge may be
established by the enactment of a resolution.
(Res. 2013-11, passed 12-16-2013)
§ 34.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following rates and charges are hereby established by the city:
Daily admission fee to the Flandreau Aquatic Center         $4
Charge per page for copies provided by the city             $0.40
Rental rate per day for the Armory by for-profit groups     $100
Rental rate per day for the Armory by nonprofit groups      $50
Rental rate per day for the Band Shell                      $25
Camping fee per day for tents                               $5
Rental rate per day for the Community Center by for-profit  $100
groups
Rental rate per day for the Community Center by nonprofit   $50
groups
Rental rate per day for the Izaak Walton Building           $35
Rental deposit for the Izaak Walton Building                $50
Rental rate per day for the Japanese Gardens                $75
Landfill disposal fee per tire for tires up to 16"          $4
Landfill disposal fee per tire for tires between 16.5" to   $7
30"
Landfill disposal fee for residents of Flandreau per car    $3
load
Landfill disposal fee for residents of Flandreau per pickup $4
load or 2-wheel trailer
Landfill disposal fee for nonresidents of Flandreau per car $6
load
Landfill disposal fee for nonresidents of Flandreau per     $8
pickup load or 2-wheel trailer
Street repairs                                              Actual cost
Conditional Use permit application fee                      $75
Variance permit application fee                             $75
Building permit application for projects of $0 to $5,000    $15
Demolition and/or tear down permit application fee          $15
Sidewalk construction permit application fee                $15
Insufficient funds processing fee                           $40
Utility billing delivery fee for hand delivered late        $10
notices
Utility billing late fee                                    10% of utility bill
After business hours utility disconnect or reconnect fee    $60
Electric utility deposit                                    $100
Water utility deposit                                       $50
Full-service on-sale restaurant liquor license fee          $2,500
Full-service on-sale restaurant liquor license renewal      $1,200
 
(Res. 2013-11, passed 12-16-2013; Am. Res. 2024-02, passed 1-16-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER
      
53.   ELECTRIC
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utilities and service provided
   
50.02   City not required to furnish service
   
50.03   Interfering with utility meters or connections
   
50.04   Obtaining service
   
50.05   Cash deposit required
   
50.06   Bills for service
   
50.07   Payment due
§ 50.01 UTILITIES AND SERVICE PROVIDED.
   The city provides water, sewer, electricity, and residential garbage pickup
for its residents.
(Prior Code, § 11.0401) (Ord. 457, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 50.02 CITY NOT REQUIRED TO FURNISH SERVICE.
   The city shall not be required to furnish electric current, water, or sewer
service to any person when the applicant for such service, his or her spouse,
or any other adult residing in the same household and obtaining city utilities
either directly or indirectly through the same meter is indebted to the city
for the class of service applied for, whether for service at the same location
or elsewhere and whether indebted or demanding service individually or a member
of a partnership. No such service shall be required to be furnished for use
upon any premises the owner of which, or the spouse of such owner, is indebted
to said city for such class of service.
(Prior Code, § 11.0403) (Ord. 457, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 50.03 INTERFERING WITH UTILITY METERS OR CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following acts: break
or deface any meter; break or deface any seal attached to the meter or its
appurtenances; obstruct, alter, injure or prevent the actions of any meter; or
make any connection by any means with the supply side of the meter in such a
manner as to take the commodity so obtained with intent to defraud, turn on or
off, or in any manner interfere with any switch valve connected with any main
supply, meter, or connection. Both the applicant and the owner of the premises
which is served by a city utility shall be jointly and severally responsible
for the cost of repairs or replacement of any meter or other property of the
city damaged by the intentional or negligent acts of any occupant of the real
estate or occupant’s guests. Responsibility will include damage by freezing
weather.
(Prior Code, § 11.0402) (Ord. 457, passed 9-8-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 OBTAINING SERVICE.
   (A)   Persons wishing to obtain city supplied utilities and services will
make written application for said utilities and services on forms provided by
the city office.
(Prior Code, § 14.0404)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain utilities or services
from the city under an assumed name or any name other than his or her true
name.
(Prior Code, § 14.0405)
(Ord. 457, passed 9-18-1998)
§ 50.05 CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each consumer shall pay a cash deposit for each residential or
business location for which service is requested. Said deposit is payable at
time of application for service. The amount of said deposit shall be $30 for
water service and $70 for electric service. The city shall issue a non-
assignable receipt showing the date, name of consumer, and the amount received.
   (B)   Cash deposits received for city supplied utilities and services shall
be returned to consumers when the consumer no longer requires the utility or
service. Consumers shall make written application for return of their cash
deposit. Upon presentation of the receipt for cash deposit, city personnel will
determine if all services received by the consumer have been paid for, and
after all utilities and services supplied to the consumer have been paid for,
the city shall process the application for the return of the cash deposit.
Deposits may be applied to the final bill for utilities and services received
or may be returned to the consumer by city check.
   (C)   In addition, homeowners who have resided in their primary residence
for a period of six consecutive months and have paid their utility bills by the
due date during that six-month period may have their deposit refunded after the
six-month period and shall make application for it with the city office.
(Prior Code, § 14.0406) (Ord. 457, passed 9-18-1998)
§ 50.06 BILLS FOR SERVICE.
   Bills for electricity, water, sewer, and residential garbage pickup will
normally be rendered on or about the first day of the calendar month following
the furnishing of the utility or service.
(Prior Code, § 14.0407) (Ord. 457, passed 9-18-1998)
§ 50.07 PAYMENT DUE.
   All bills for utilities and services furnished by the city shall be due and
payable prior to 5:00 p.m. on the fifteenth day of the month. Bills shall
become delinquent on the sixteenth day of the month following the date of such
bill. However, if such due date shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal
holiday observed by the city, such bills shall be due and payable by 5:00 p.m.
of the following business day.
(Ord. 482, passed 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Administration
   
51.03   Enforcement
   
51.04   Monthly charges
   
51.05   Collection regulations
   
51.06   Container requirements
   
51.07   Commercial containers
   
51.08   Maintenance of containers
   
51.09   Replacement of containers
   
51.10   Prohibited activities
   
51.11   Administrative proceedings
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Flandreau, South Dakota.
   FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT. Any single independent family unit irrespective of the
number of persons constituting such family but shall not include a situation
where one or more independent families may be living together in any single
residence or abode, but in such situation, each of such independent families
shall be deemed and regarded as a separate and distinct FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT.
Each independent family unit living in multiple dwelling residences, apartment
houses, or any type of residence, including trailer houses, shall each be
deemed a FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT. For the purpose of this chapter, a rooming house
that supplies lodging for hire and which does not serve meals shall be deemed
one FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT.
   GARBAGE. All organic refuse from the preparation of food and decayed or
spoiled animal or vegetable food from any source.
   REFUSE. Includes unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-
liquid state consisting of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof.
   RUBBISH. Includes non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
noncombustible waste materials from residential apartments, and commercial,
industrial, and institutional establishments including yard wastes and items
commonly referred to as “trash”.
   SOLID WASTE. Refuse, rubbish, garbage, trash, and bulky refuse.
   TRASH. Includes earth, soil, wood, tree leaves, dead leaves, small branches,
clay, sand, bricks, plaster, Portland cement, chips, shavings, grass cuttings,
sticks, rocks, old papers and magazines, paper or wood cartons, rags, sawdust,
old clothing, and other combustible materials of a like nature which are not
included in the definition of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 11.0501)
§ 51.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsible agency. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
City Council to provide for the effective administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Functions and powers. The City Council shall have the power, to-wit:
      (1)   To contract for disposal of garbage, refuse, rubbish, and trash. It
shall not be required to accept the lowest bid but may accept contractors which
it feels are best qualified;
      (2)   To terminate contracts upon failure to conform to contract terms
after hearing;
      (3)   To regulate method of conveyance of garbage and to approve of all
vehicles used;
      (4)   To charge for and supervise all collection and removal; and
      (5)   To cancel any charge for collection if it feels collection is not
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 11.0502)
§ 51.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to grant an exclusive or nonexclusive
franchise or franchises for the collection and removal of garbage for a term
not to exceed ten years. In granting the franchise, the City Council shall
consider the following, to-wit:
      (1)   Knowledge of applicant of the business;
      (2)   Ability to furnish required equipment and personnel;
      (3)   Financial responsibility;
      (4)   Capacity to indemnify city for failure to fulfill terms of
franchise or against any injury sustained in performance of such franchise;
      (5)   Prior experiences of applicant in operation of business of refuse
collection and disposal;
      (6)   Ability of applicant to provide suitable disposal site; and
      (7)   If there is more than one qualified applicant, the franchise may be
granted to the applicant offering the most favorable financial return to the
city. Each applicant shall include his or her proposed rates with his or her
application.
   (B)   The City Council shall provide, by contract, the times and places of
garbage collection provided that said garbage collection shall not be less than
at least one time per week. The contract holder must be able to satisfy the
city that he or she will have an acceptable disposal site for all waste
collected which meets the approval of the state’s Department of Environment
Protection.
(Prior Code, § 11.0514)
§ 51.04 MONTHLY CHARGES.
   (A)   The monthly charges for garbage and trash collection by the city shall
be incorporated and made a part of the monthly billing for utilities and
services furnished by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.0513)
   (B)   A commercial establishment shall be permitted to negotiate and enter
into private contracts for garbage and trash removal with garbage haulers
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.0512)
   (C)   (1)   The cost of collection and disposal of refuse for family
domestic units and the administration thereof shall become a charge against
each unit and shall be payable monthly, together with other public service
charges as defined by this city.
      (2)   The customer charge for residential solid waste and recyclables
collection shall be $17.30 per month.
(Prior Code, § 11.0511)
(Ord. 411, passed 5-16-1994; Res. 2022-02, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 51.05 COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited any
garbage, rubbish, trash, or waste material in or upon any part of an alley,
gutter, or other private or public property within this city, unless such
garbage or refuse is deposited in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. This shall not include barn wastes, manure, sand, earth, ashes, or
cinder which are spread out upon the ground. It shall be unlawful to store,
deposit, or keep such material where rats have access thereto or feed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 11.0503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mandatory service required.
      (1)   Every household or occupant of a family domestic unit shall be
required to utilize the city garbage service and to pay the reasonable fees
therefor.
      (2)   Every household or occupant of a family domestic unit and every
commercial establishment shall provide himself, herself, or itself with one or
more covered fly-tight containers made of a suitable material with the capacity
of not less than ten or more than 30 gallons having bales or handles to receive
all garbage, waste material, and rubbish which may accumulate between the times
of collection.
(Prior Code, § 11.0504)
   (B)   Location of containers generally.
      (1)   The containers, required by §
51.06, shall be kept in a suitable rack which shall be located on the premises
adjacent to any alley bordering said premises and so as to be accessible from
the alley adjoining the premises. Where there is no through-alley available,
garbage cans and waste material containers shall be placed on the parkway
adjoining the premises on the day of the garbage collection and removed the
same day.
      (2)   Garbage cans and waste material containers shall be so placed that
collectors of garbage do not have to carry such cans or containers for a
distance of more than 20 feet. No garbage truck shall be required to use any
private driveway in collection of garbage under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.0505)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 COMMERCIAL CONTAINERS.
   All commercial establishments such as hotels, boarding houses, restaurants,
lunchrooms, bars, drug stores, tourist courts, grocery stores, and all other
commercial and business establishments and educational facilities or
institutions within this city having garbage, rubbish, or waste material to
dispose of, shall provide one or more fly-tight containers of suitable material
of the size hereinbefore provided to receive all refuse which may accumulate
between the times of collections. These containers shall be so located at the
rear of the building or property using the same as to be easily accessible to
the collector and shall be so constructed that they may be easily, completely,
and thoroughly emptied and cleaned. Dry rubbish, when stored inside private
business establishments, need not be deposited in a container.
(Prior Code, § 11.0506)
§ 51.08 MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Maintenance of containers. Every container required by §§
51.06 and
51.07 herein shall be maintained in as sanitary condition as possible, in view
of the use to which it is put, and thoroughly cleaned as needed by washing,
scalding, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 11.0507)
   (B)   Protection of contents of containers. Garbage cans shall be kept
closed tightly except during the collection or deposit of garbage, trash, or
refuse.
(Prior Code, § 11.0509)
   (C)   Preparation of garbage for deposit. All garbage and wet rubbish shall
be drained and wrapped before the same is deposited in any container.
(Prior Code, § 11.0510)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 REPLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, controlling, managing,
operating, policing, retiring, or occupying any premises where garbage or trash
accumulates to replace within ten days after receipt of a condemnation notice
issued by the City Finance Officer any containers that have deteriorated, that
have jagged edges capable of causing injury to those whose duty it is to handle
the containers, or that have been damaged to such an extent.
(Prior Code, § 11.0508)
§ 51.10 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any abandoned, deteriorated, wrecked, or derelict property such
as, but not limited to, trailers, boats, machinery, household appliances,
plumbing fixtures, furniture, and other articles in unusable condition having
no value other than nominal scrap or junk value, if any, and which has been
left unprotected from the elements and which constitutes fire, health, or
safety hazard or is unsightly shall not be permitted to be kept within the city
limits.
      (2)   ABANDONED PROPERTY shall include, without being so restricted,
deteriorated, wrecked, partially dismantled, or inoperative motor vehicles.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE means any vehicle which is not in operating condition due to
damage, removal, or inoperability of one or more tires or wheels, the engine,
or other essential parts required for the operation of the vehicle or which
does not have lawfully affixed thereto a valid state license plate or which
constitutes an immediate health, safety, fire, or traffic hazard.
   (B)   Cultivated and useful grasses in pastures are not nuisances except
that it shall be a nuisance to refuse to provide fire breaks as deemed
necessary by the City Council within seven days after notification by the
Council of the necessity therefor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City Council
to haul or drive a vehicle with solid waste materials through or upon the city
streets.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any solid waste material to be kept or
accumulated for more than 24 hours after notification by the City Council to
remove the same.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to bury or attempt to bury solid waste materials
within the city limits.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any solid waste materials on any
public or private property other than certain designated and exempt wastes for
which special areas have been set aside by the City Council.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to fail to clean premises, fail to place all
materials in containers, and fail to place containers in a position for
collection.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to burn any solid waste within the city limits,
provided that burning by incineration shall be lawful if within incinerators
which meet air pollution standards by the state’s Air Pollution Control
Regulations.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to allow the scattering of wastes upon public
road rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 11.0515) (Ord. 495, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If a nuisance exists, a written notice of violation shall be issued by
the Mayor or Council directing abatement.
   (B)   Notice may be served by personal service, sent by registered mail, or
posted at two public places and published one time in the official newspaper of
the city.
   (C)   Within 14 days after service of notice, an appeal may be made to the
City Council. Within five to 15 days after filing appeal, it shall be heard
before the City Council. All persons who fail to protest shall be deemed to
have waived all objections.
   (D)   Abatement shall be accomplished in 14 days after notification of the
decision by the City Council.
   (E)   If abatement is not complete, the City Council shall have authority to
cause the nuisance to be abated and shall file an account of the expense
thereof with the City Council.
   (F)   At least seven days after filing the account, the City Council shall
hold a hearing at its meeting. Notice shall be posted or mailed to the person
to whom the charges are to be assessed announcing the time of the City Council
meeting and the proposed cost to be assessed.
   (G)   The City Council shall hear the matter, and if the account is
accepted, the amount thereof shall become a lien on the property of the
violator and may be specially assessed against the same as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 11.0516)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER
Section
Water
   
52.01   Application for service
   
52.02   When water supplied
   
52.03   Property of city
   
52.04   City not liable
   
52.05   Meter inspection
   
52.06   Water pipes how laid
   
52.07   Expense of taps
   
52.08   Water charges
   
52.09   Payment of water rates
   
52.10   Restricted uses of water
Sewers
   
52.25   Definitions
   
52.26   Public sewers required
   
52.27   Prohibited discharges and wastewater monitoring
   
52.28   Inspector authority
   
52.29   Protection from damage
   
52.30   Sanitary sewers, building sewers, and connections
   
52.31   Sewer service charge
   
52.32   Sewer utility rates
Water and Sewer Extensions
   
52.45   Definitions
   
52.46   Yard fountains
   
52.47   Application for water main extensions
   
52.48   Engineering fees
   
52.49   Interconnection and extension by city
   
52.50   Water main installations
   
52.51   Notice to inspector
   
52.52   Guarding excavations
   
52.53   Manholes
   
52.54   Trunk sewer defined
   
52.55   Trunk sewer connection and engineering fees
   
52.56   Trunk sewer approval
   
52.57   Trunk sewer maintenance and specifications
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER
§ 52.01 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, or firm desiring the use of water from the
Waterworks System of this city shall make application therefor to the Finance
Officer; such application shall be in blank form to be furnished by the City
Council. It shall be signed by the applicant and shall contain, among other
things which may be required, the purpose for which the water is desired and
the approximate amount of water to be used during three months.
   (B)   It shall further contain a description of the premises to which the
same is to be taken and the name of the owner of such premises. If the
applicant be not the owner, the written consent of the owner shall accompany
such application. Upon receipt of such application, the applicant shall present
the same to the City Finance Officer who shall enter the same upon his or her
books and issue to the applicant a permit to use the water from the Waterworks
System for the purpose specified in said application. Said permit shall be
conditioned upon the applicant complying with all the ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the city relating to the Waterworks System. Any assignment or
transfer of said permit shall not be valid unless same shall have been approved
by the Finance Officer and entered upon his or her books.
(Prior Code, § 11.0102)
§ 52.02 WHEN WATER SUPPLIED.
   Water shall be supplied only upon written order of the owner of the real
estate to which it is piped, and the city shall have a lien upon the property
to which water shall be taken from the municipal plant for all water rents due.
In no case shall water be turned on at any place or property at which water
shall have been used and remain unpaid for except by permission of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.0113)
§ 52.03 PROPERTY OF CITY.
   All service pipe connection and boxes leading from the mains to the curb
shall be and remain the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.0111)
§ 52.04 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   All persons using water from the Waterworks System for any purpose shall do
so at their own risk, and the city will not, nor will the Mayor, City Council,
Superintendent, or other officer in charge of the Waterworks System, in any
case be liable or responsible for damages growing out of the overflow or
stoppage of water or any insufficient supply of the same.
(Prior Code, § 11.0108)
§ 52.05 METER INSPECTION.
   In case the water meter fails to register the amount used or, for any
reason, fails to properly tally, the Waterworks Superintendent of the city or
other officer in charge of the Waterworks System shall estimate the amount
used, and the decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 11.0106)
§ 52.06 WATER PIPES HOW LAID.
   All corporations, stop and water cocks, goose necks, and all service and
stop boxes shall be of the kind and pattern prescribed by the city. All service
pipes must be laid as much below the surface of the ground as the main pipes in
the street and, in all cases, protected so as to prevent rupture from freezing.
All service pipes leading from the main to any premises or pipes leading from
such service pipes to any part of the premises and up to the meters shall be of
one-inch extra heavy material. Before any pipes are attached to the main or any
service pipes leading to any part of the premises where the water is to be
used, the same shall be inspected by the Superintendent or proper employee of
the Waterworks Department, and he or she shall have the absolute right to
refuse to allow any such pipes to be connected to said main or service pipes or
other pipe connected thereto if they deem the same unfit for the use for which
the same is to be put.
(Prior Code, § 11.0107)
§ 52.07 EXPENSE OF TAPS.
   All taps to water mains and renewal of service pipes in said city shall be
under the direction of the city’s Water Department. The expense of making such
taps is to be paid by the property owners and shall be charged from the center
of the street, and the amount of such charge shall be fixed by resolution as
may be heretofore or hereafter adopted by said City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.0103)
§ 52.08 WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   As of the passage date of this subchapter, the following water charges
have been in effect and shall continue to apply unless and until this
subchapter is amended by action of the City Council.
   (B)   Minimum service charge per month based on meter size:
Meter Charge
Meter      Charge
3/4 inch   $18
1 inch     $31
1-1/4 inch $47
1-1/2 inch $70
2 inch     $124
3 inch     $286
4 inch     $496
6 inch     $600
 
   (C)   In addition, all units that have more than one service connected to a
central meter will pay the greater of the meter charge or $10 for each
additional service connected.
   (D)   Water usage will be charged at $5.73 per 1,000 gallons of water
beginning with the January 2025 billing cycle.
   (E)   All customer water service meters installed shall be furnished and
installed by the city. The city shall have the right to exchange any
inoperative water meter and continue the replacement in service without
returning the original meter.
   (F)   Users may request their service be deactivated any time upon request
without charge. There will be a charge of $50 assessed for reactivating a
service.
   (G)   All water main taps shall be made by the city in accordance with
specifications for materials and procedures adopted by the city. Before a water
main tap is made, the customer must obtain a permit from the city and pay the
fees required for the service. The permit fee shall include the water main
assessment, the cost of tapping the water main, and the installation of the
meter. The owner shall be responsible for installation of the service line from
the water main to the meter location and prepare plumbing to receive the meter.
All work shall be in accordance with specifications for materials and
construction methods adopted by the city. The owner shall provide a shut-off
valve immediately ahead of the meter for ease of installation. A backflow
preventer must be installed between meter and house plumbing. No meter bypasses
will be allowed except those that may be designed in the system for fire
protection or other special cases. All water meters size five-eighths inch
through one inch shall be installed with read-o-matics mounted on the exterior
of the structure.
   (H)   Water service connection charges shall be as follows.
      (1)   Basic water system charge. This charge is required of all
connections to the municipal water system and shall be $125.
      (2)   Tapping charge. The minimum size tap to the city main shall be one
inch. The tapping charge provides the basic tap to the water main. There shall
be a $125 charge for performing the minimum one-inch tap. A charge for taps
larger than one inch shall be made for the difference in cost of materials used
and for the one-inch tap plus such other out of pocket expense that may be
incurred by the city in making the tap.
      (3)   Water meter charge. The water meter charge provides the furnishing
and installation of the water meter and perpetual maintenance of the meter by
the city. Remote readers shall be furnished on all residential meters. The
meter charge shall be in accordance with the following schedule.
Water Meter Size Meter
Water Meter Size Meter
3/4 inch         $150
1 inch           $210
1-1/4 inch       $360
1-1/2 inch       $540
2 inch           $875
3 inch           $1,140
4 inch           City’s cost
6 inch           City’s cost
8 inch           City’s cost
 
   (I)   Bulk water. The rate for bulk water shall be $.50 per 150 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 11.0104) (Ord. 484, passed 12-18-2000; Res. 2021-11, passed 10-
4-2021; Ord. 624, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 52.09 PAYMENT OF WATER RATES.
   (A)   The minimum rate and excess shall be billed every two months and is
due by the tenth day of the following month. Any payment not made on or before
said times shall be delinquent, and it shall be the duty of the Superintendent
or other person in charge of the municipal plant to shut off the water from all
users so in default. Every connection turned off under this provision of this
section shall not be turned on again except upon payment of $25 plus the amount
in arrears to the City Finance Officer for having said water turned on.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill; and
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present,
orally or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Prior Code, § 11.0112)
§ 52.10 RESTRICTED USES OF WATER.
   (A)   Use of water during fires. During the time of fires, the use of water
for lawn purposes is prohibited, and any person violating this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11.0109)
   (B)   Turning on water. Any person who shall turn on the supply of water to
a service pipe from which the same has been turned off by the city on account
of non-payment of water rates or for any other reason without having first
obtained a permit to do so or who shall have turned on such water without
having first obtained a permit from the proper city officials as in this
subchapter provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as provided
for by the general penalty provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.0110)
   (C)   Turning on water. Any person who shall turn on water in any hydrant or
from any part of the waterworks plant, except as public drinking fountains or
in the case of fire, without permission of the person in charge of the system
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and any person who shall climb on the
water tower or on the ladder thereon without the permission of the person in
charge of the Waterworks System, if convicted, shall be punished in accordance
with the general punishment provisions of the city’s revised code.
(Prior Code, § 11.0114)
   (D)   Restrictions, sprinkling, and air conditioning. All water used for air
conditioning or cooling systems, lawn or garden sprinkling, watering of trees
or shrubs, the washing of cars, or any other use other than domestic or
necessary commercial use may be restricted at any time by the City Council
should the scarcity of water or an emergency of any kind so require. Such
restrictions shall be imposed by resolution of the City Council and notice
thereof given to the public by publication of such restrictions and the extent
thereof in the official newspaper and, if possible, by radio or television
announcement at least 24 hours before the effective date of such restriction.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use city water in
the manner or at the times restricted by such resolution. The term sprinkling
shall include the use in any manner of water for lawn or garden purposes where
such water is distributed by the use of any hose or conduit.
(Prior Code, § 11.0115)
Penalty, see §
52.99
SEWERS
§ 52.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Flandreau, South Dakota.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
    MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER and STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewage Works of the city or an
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 11.0201)
§ 52.26 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner under public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public, sanitary, or combined sewer
of the city is hereby required, at personal expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within 90
days after date of official notice to do so provided that said public sewer is
within 200 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 11.0202) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND WASTEWATER MONITORING.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited
areas which storm water may be polluted at times, to the sanitary sewer by
permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Storm water other than that exempted under division (A) above and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline or benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or in interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process, or
equipment; will not have an adverse affect on the receiving system; will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property; or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming an opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer shall
not be violated without approval of the Superintendent as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing buoyant oils, fat, or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see § 52.25).
Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar
places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for
the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitutes a
slug as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduced by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and/or
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and which, in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters or which otherwise create
a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewer;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer use charges. When considering
the above alternatives the Superintendent shall give consideration to the
economic impact of each alternative or the discharger. If the Superintendent
permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and
installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
   (F)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing buoyant grease in excessive amounts as specified in
division (D)(3) above or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner(s) personnel must
be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at personal expense.
   (H)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner(s) of any
property service by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The structure shall be installed by the owner at personal expense
and shall be maintained by said owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement with the city, and any
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 11.0204) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 INSPECTOR AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a directed
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential, and the
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises as established
by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property or to city employees and against liability, claims, and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
52.27(H).
   (D)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 11.0206)
§ 52.29 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 11.0205) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS, AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits. One shall be for
residential and commercial service, and one shall be for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or
his, her, or their agent shall make application on a special form furnished by
the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent. A tapping fee of $100 shall be submitted with all such
applications.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an alley, yard, court, or driveway. The building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all
conform to the requirements of the State Planning Code, being SDCL Title 11, or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of suitable
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M and W.P.C.P. Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply unless otherwise stipulated herein.
   (G)   The building sewers shall be constructed of PVC sewer pipe and
fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. and State Plumbing Code, being SDCL
Chapter 36-25, rules and regulations. All joints and connections shall be made
gas tight and watertight and verified by proper testing when so requested by
the Superintendent.
   (H)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (2)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The building sewer shall be
laid in straight alignment at a uniform grade of one-fourth inch per foot
wherever practical but in no case less than one-eighth inch per foot. Changes
in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (I)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly located “Y”
branch is available, the owner shall, at personal expense, install a “Y” branch
in the public sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent. The invert
of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at a higher elevation
than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Superintendent.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or a representative of the Superintendent.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.0203) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A) The city hereby determines that a just and equitable rate of charges to
be paid to said city for the use of its sewer utilities by every city sewer
utilities user whose premises are served by a connection to such sewer utility
directly or indirectly shall be as set forth below.
   (B)   Such charges have been determined, as nearly as possible in the
judgment of the governing body, equitable and in proportion to the services
rendered taking into consideration the quantity of sewage produced and its
concentration, strength, and river pollution qualities in general. These rates
are determined by the relationship of the metering of private water supplies on
each premises served by such sewer, and in doing so, the governing body has
taken into consideration the amount or proportion of water which is used on
said premises in such manner that it does not reach or burden said sewer
utilities. Such charges shall be collected at the same time and place in
conjunction with the water rentals. A minimum service charge of $2 per month
for each household or commercial unit plus a charge of $1.15 per thousand
gallons of metered water determined by using the average number of gallons of
metered water for each user during the months of November, December, January,
and February of the prior year.
   (C)   Service charges for trailer courts for which one meter is used for two
or more trailers and the charges are paid for by the trailer court owners shall
be the same as set forth above provided, however, that the number of gallons of
metered water shall be based upon the actual number of gallons used. Water
meters will be read every two months, and the next month’s bill will include
sewer charges based upon the gallons of water metered over the prior two
months. Sewer charges for these customers will be billed every other month and
will alternate months with water billings so that both water and sewer are not
billed to the customer the same month.
(Prior Code, § 11.0208) (Ord. 403 passed 9-27-1993)
§ 52.32 SEWER UTILITY RATES.
   The following rates are established to be effective with utility bills
billed in November 2021:
Basic customer charge                        $15 per month
                                             
Sewer charge                                 $3.80 per 1,000 gallons
Surcharge (sewer system improvements - 2019) $3.50 per 1,000
   Total per 1,000 gallons*               $7.30
                                             
Sewer tap charge                             $200
* Based on an average of four winter months. Consumers hooked up to the system
without a winter average will be billed 75% of the water usage until the April
billing.
 
(Res. 2021-12, passed 10-4-2021)
WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 52.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future. Words in
the plural number includes the singular number, and words in the singular
number include the plural number. The word SHALL is mandatory and not merely
directory.
(Prior Code, § 11.0306)
§ 52.46 YARD FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall use any yard fountain except by special permission of the
Superintendent of the Water and Wastewater Department and only then between
April 1 and November 1. All service pipes of yard fountains must be provided
with curb stops under the city’s control. The governing body may suspend the
use of water for fountains and sprinkling whenever, in its opinion, public
necessity may require it.
(Prior Code, § 11.0301) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.47 APPLICATION FOR WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any owner(s) of real estate in the city desiring to have the
water mains of said city extended to his, her, or their respective property
shall be required to make written application to the Superintendent of the
Water Department. Said application shall set forth the area to be served and
the length of the proposed water main extension and such other information as
may be required by the Superintendent of the Water Department.
      (2)   Each applicant for such water main extension shall, as a part of
such application, pay for the cost of such water main extension including all
labor and materials except as outlined below.
   (B)   If a water main larger than eight inches in diameter is required for
such water main extension, then the city shall pay the difference in the cost
of construction over and above the cost of an eight-inch water main. The city
shall furnish, at the city’s expense, the following materials to an authorized
plumbing contractor. These materials will be installed according to city
specifications, and the cost will be paid as outlined below.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall furnish pipe, fire hydrant, hydrant support
block, gasket, and bolts to make a fire hydrant installation. The contractor
shall furnish and install the main line tee for the fire hydrant.
      (2)   The contractor shall excavate and backfill for the hydrant, line,
dry well, and support block and install the same for a flat charge paid by the
city to be determined at the start of each construction season. The city shall
furnish and the contractor shall install one cubic yard of properly graded
gravel or crushed gravel or crushed stone to serve as a dry well for the fire
hydrant.
   (D)   The city shall furnish all water main shut-off valves without charge
to the contractor. These valves shall be installed by the contractor according
to a price schedule determined at the start of each construction season.
   (E)   The city shall furnish the blowoff valve and bos at dead end mains as
required. They shall be installed by the contractor according to city
specifications at the contractor’s expense. When the line is extended, this
material shall be returned to the Water Department.   
   (F)   All such applications shall be submitted to the Utility Superintendent
for approval with the recommendations of the Superintendent of the Water
Department at the regular meeting following the filing of such application with
the Water Superintendent. The Utility Superintendent shall determine the size
of the water main that is to be used in such water main extension on the basis
of the estimated future water requirements of the area to be served by such
water main extension.
(Prior Code, § 11.0302)
§ 52.48 ENGINEERING FEES.
   Any person(s) making such application shall agree, as a part of such
application, to pay to the city’s Utility Superintendent a fee or charge for
the engineering and inspection of such proposed water main into the municipal
water system to be determined on the basis of 30C per lineal foot for the full
length of such proposed water main. The payment of such charge or fee is to be
made upon approval of said application and before said connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 11.0303)
§ 52.49 INTERCONNECTION AND EXTENSION BY CITY.
   (A)   Whenever it is desirable or necessary, in the judgment of the city’s
Utilities Superintendent, to interconnect existing segments or extensions of
the city water system and no application for such interconnection or extension
has been made to the Superintendent of the Water Department, the city may order
and authorize such interconnection and extension of the existing water mains,
and the city shall be reimbursed for such interconnection and extension
including all labor and materials by the adjacent property owners paying his or
her proportionate share of said cost at the time he or she makes application to
use and connect to said interconnection and extension.
(Prior Code, § 11.0304)
   (B)   Whenever it is desirable or necessary, in the judgment of the City
Council, to extend trunk sewers or to interconnect existing segments or
extensions of the city sewer system and no application for such extension or
interconnection has been made to the Superintendent of the City Water and
Wastewater Department, the Council may order to authorize such extension or
interconnection of existing trunk sewer system in any area of the city, and the
city shall be reimbursed for such extension and interconnection including all
labor and materials by the adjacent property owners paying his or her
proportionate share of said extension and interconnection, which payment shall
be made at that time of the property owner making application to use and to
connect to said extension and interconnection.
(Prior Code, § 11.0310)
§ 52.50 WATER MAIN INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The city’s Utilities shall prepare plans and specifications for each
water main extension project. In general, the installation procedure shall
conform to the standards established by the Cast Iron Pipe Research
Association.
   (B)   Pressure, leakage, and an electrical conductance test shall be made by
the Water Department on all new water main extensions. Chlorination of the
water mains shall conform to the A.W.W.A. standard for disinfecting water
mains.
(Prior Code, § 11.0305)
§ 52.51 NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   Any plumber or person doing work under the provisions of this subchapter
shall, when work is prepared for inspection as provided in this regulation,
notify the city that such inspection is required and give the location of
premises and the time such work will be ready for inspection. The city shall
inspect such work within two work days after request for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 11.0307)
§ 52.52 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. All guards,
barricades, and lights shall be furnished by the contractor. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored as per city specifications.
(Prior Code, § 11.0308)
§ 52.53 MANHOLES.
   Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes in
grade, size, or alignment; at all intersections; and along each line at
intervals not greater than 400 feet except by special permit. Lamp holes may be
used in special conditions such as laterals or lines that may be extended at an
early date. Manholes shall not be less than four feet in diameter. Materials
shall be sealed with asphaltic joint material. Manhole frames and covers shall
be a standard 400 pounds and 24 inches with solid cover unless otherwise
specified.
(Prior Code, § 11.0309)
§ 52.54 TRUNK SEWER DEFINED.
   For purposes of this regulation, a TRUNK SEWER shall be any sanitary sewer
constructed on public property, eight inches or larger in diameter with a
manhole at each end, and built in conformance with city specifications.
(Prior Code, § 11.0312)
§ 52.55 TRUNK SEWER CONNECTION AND ENGINEERING FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Any person(s) desiring to construct any sanitary trunk sewer to
carry sewage from any particular district, subdivision, or portion of the
municipality as well as sewage from property abutting upon the street or way in
which it is to be laid to the main sewer outlet, septic, or disposal plant of
the city shall be required to make a written application to the Superintendent
of the Water and Wastewater Department.
      (2)   This application shall state the district, subdivision, or area of
the municipality to be served by such trunk sewer; the size and kind of sewer
pipe; maximum length of such proposed construction; the streets or ways in
which it is proposed to be laid; and the point where such trunk sewer is to be
connected with the main sewer outlet, septic, or disposal plant of the city
together with such other information as may be required by the Superintendent
of the Water and Wastewater Department.
(Prior Code, § 11.0311)
   (B)   Any person(s) making such application shall agree, as a part of such
application, to pay to the city’s Utilities a fee or charge for the engineering
and inspection of such proposed sanitary trunk sewer into the municipal sewer
system to be determined on the basis of 40C per lineal foot for the full length
of such proposed trunk sewer. The payment of such charge or fee to be made upon
the approval of said application and before said connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 11.0313)
§ 52.56 TRUNK SEWER APPROVAL.
   All applications hereunder shall be submitted to the Utility Superintendent
at the regular meeting following the filing of such application with the
Superintendent of the Water and Wastewater Department, and no connection of any
trunk sewer shall be made with the municipal sewer system until the same has
been approved by the Utility Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 11.0314)
§ 52.57 TRUNK SEWER MAINTENANCE AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   When any trunk sewer is connected with the municipal sewer system, it
shall then become a part of the sewer system of the city and shall be
maintained by the municipal utilities.
(Prior Code, § 11.0315)
   (B)   All sewer service and mains shall be constructed according to the
State Plumbing Code and the city’s water and sewer department regulations.
Sewer mains shall be sized by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent. In no
case shall the size of the sewer main be less than eight inches in diameter.
Grades for all sewer mains shall be established and set by the Utilities
Engineer and the Water and Wastewater Superintendent or a designated
representative shall be appointed pursuant to the laws of the city and shall
supervise all sewer main installations and excavations for the purpose of
installing or repairing same. Each and every part of the sewer main shall be
inspected and approved by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent or
representative before being concealed or backfilled.
(Prior Code, § 11.0316)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
except §§
52.25 through
52.31 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
hereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $200 for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.31 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 11.0207)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC
Section
   
53.01   Utility rates
   
53.02   Adjustments
§ 53.01 UTILITY RATES.
   The following rates are established to be effective with utility bills
billed in February 2024:
Residential Customers      Base             Surcharge Total
Basic customer charge      $16 per month              
Energy charge (per kWh)                              
   July-September Billin$0.108           $0.015    $0.123
   October-June Billings$0.088           $0.015    $0.103
                                                    
Small Commercial Customers Base             Surcharge Total
Basic customer charge      $25.25 per month           
Energy charge (per kWh)                              
   July-September Billin$0.117           $0.015    $0.132
   October-June Billings$0.095           $0.015    $0.110
                                                  
Large Commercial Customers Base             Surcharge Total
(loads over 40 kW)
Basic customer charge      $68 per month              
Demand charge (per kW)                               
   July-September Billin$21.60                     
   October-June Billings$16.00                     
Energy charge (per kWh)    $0.038           $0.015    $0.053
Energy charge              $0.120           $0.015    $0.135
                                                    
Security Lights                                      
   Metered              $4.80 per month            
   Unmetered            $7.75 per month            
                                                    
School Lights              $43.50 per month           
 
(Ord. 580, passed 9-5-2017; Am. Ord. 618, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 53.02 ADJUSTMENTS.
   The city reserves the right to adjust the amount billed to a large
commercial customer if the customer’s average power factor is determined to be
less than 95%.
(Ord. 580, passed 9-5-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic devices
   
70.03   Powers and duties of the police
   
70.04   Duty of police to investigate accidents
   
70.05   Authority to remove vehicles in violation
   
70.06   Failure to comply with lawful order
   
70.07   Failure to obey school crossing guard
   
70.08   Imitating official signal or device
   
70.09   View obstruction
   
70.10   Applications to alternative transport
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Every highway, roadway, street, or alley set apart for public travel
except for footpaths.
   BICYCLE. Every vehicle propelled solely by human power, except scooters and
similar devices, upon which any person may ride.
   BOULEVARD. The area of right of way between the curb and adjacent lateral
property line.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area designated C1, Central Commercial District on
the Official Zoning Map referred to in §
155.006.
   CITY. The City of Flandreau.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The portion of a roadway included within the connections of the
lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured from
the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable road;
in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the roadway, that part of the
roadway included within the extension of the lateral lines of the existing
sidewalk at right angles to the center line; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of
the roadway.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the City of Flandreau.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives, operates, or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular
travel by the owner and those having expressed or implied permission from the
owner, but not other persons, that is a hard surface constructed of either
gravel, asphalt, or concrete.
   EQUIPMENT or DEVICES. Includes, but are not limited to, seat belts and
attachments; safety harnesses and attachments; child restraint and seating
devices and attachments; flares, headlights, auxiliary driving lamps, rear
lamps, spotlights, identification lamps, clearance lamps, signal lamps, and all
other lighting devices; brake fluid, brake hoses, brake linings, and other
brake systems and equipment; eye protective devices and motorcycle helmets for
motorcycle operators; safety glass or safety glazing in all partitions, doors,
windows, windshields, or wind deflectors; windshield wipers; rear vision
mirrors; horns; trailer hitches; driver’s licenses; and license plates.
   HIGHWAY. Every highway, roadway, street, or alley set apart for public
travel except for footpaths.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadway of
two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles or the
area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION, and the junction of an alley with a street
or highway shall not constitute an INTERSECTION.
   JACOBS BRAKES. Dynamic braking devices, meaning a device used primarily on
trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to
an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal Police Department or
any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. That publication by the U.S.
Department of Transportation governing traffic control devices.
   MOPED. A motor driven cycle equipped with two or three wheels. If a
combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor displacement shall be 50
cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers in such power source.
The power source shall be equipped with a power drive system that only
functions directly or automatically, not requiring clutching or shifting by the
operator after the drive system is engaged.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels that contact the
ground, excluding tractors.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OCCUPANT. Person who lives or resides on any property.
   OPERATOR. Includes every individual who is in actual physical control of a
vehicle as the owner thereof or as the agent, employee, or permittee of the
owner.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, other
than temporarily, for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading property or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department for the City of Flandreau.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Includes any and all real property or land within the city
that has not been opened or dedicated for public use or as a public
thoroughfare.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway,
not comprising a business district, when the frontage of such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings not in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of the roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use by
pedestrians.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt treat or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, shall mean any halting, even momentarily,
of a vehicle whether occupied or not except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET. Every highway, roadway, street, or alley set apart for public travel
except footpaths.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for the purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by the authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power designated for carrying
persons or property wholly on its own structure and being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon any street or highway except devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13.1) (Ord. 614, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   (A)   Traffic control devices. All signs and signals required hereunder for
the particular purpose shall be uniform as to the type and location throughout
the city so far as practicable. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this section shall be official
traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.1)
   (B)   No violation if not in place. No provisions of this traffic code for
which signs are required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the sign or signal herein
required is not in proper position, sufficiently legible, or in proper working
order to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.6)
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of law enforcement of this city to enforce all city
ordinances. Officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic personally or
by means of visible or audible signals in conformance with the provisions of
this traffic code.In the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, law enforcement officers or Fire Department
personnel may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.2)
§ 70.04 DUTY OF POLICE TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Immediately upon the report of any accident, officers shall have the
duty of investigating such accident in accordance with the policy set by law
enforcement.
   (B)   Any report filed shall be kept on file and available for inspection by
the parties or duly authorized representatives.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.4)
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   Any vehicle parked or allowed to remain in violation of any of the
provisions of
Chapters 72,
73, and
76 may be removed or caused to be removed by law enforcement of the city and
towed to an area designated by the Police Department. Any towing and storage
charges resulting from removal of a vehicle shall be paid by the owner or
person parking such vehicle in addition to the fine and other penalties
prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.5)
§ 70.06 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LAWFUL ORDER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order or direction of a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 FAILURE TO OBEY SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle or pedestrian to fail
to obey the stop or caution signals of any school crossing guard.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 IMITATING OFFICIAL SIGNAL OR DEVICE.
   t shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display upon or in
view of any street any official sign, signal, or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic. It shall be unlawful for any person
to place, attach to, or display upon an official sign or signal any sign,
signal, or device. Every such prohibited sign, signal, or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered
to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 VIEW OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property to allow,
maintain, or fail to remove any wall, fence, foliage, or object which obstructs
the view at any intersection of streets or alleys or to place or allow any sign
or object on the boulevard or right-of-way adjacent to his or her property
which obstructs the view from any alley, driveway, or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 APPLICATIONS TO ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORT.
   Any person propelling a pushcart, bicycle, moped, motorcycle, animal,
animal-drawn vehicle, or any conveyance in the city shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code except those provisions with reference to
equipment of vehicles and which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 13.2.3)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Limits
   
71.01   Jurisdiction
   
71.02   Speed over reasonable and prudent
   
71.03   Exhibition driving
Vehicle Conduct
   
71.15   Entering street without stopping
   
71.16   Stop sign violations
   
71.17   Illegal U-turn
   
71.18   Opening and closing doors in traffic
   
71.19   Unreasonable noise from vehicle
   
71.20   Uncovered or unsecured load violation
   
71.21   Parades and processions
Unlawful Operations
   
71.35   Avoidance of intersections
   
71.36   Operation on sidewalks
   
71.37   Operation on recreational or school grounds
   
71.38   Operation on bicycle path
   
71.39   Operation of toy vehicles and the like
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.01 JURISDICTION.
   The city shall enact, maintain, and enforce its speed limits upon all
alleys, streets, highways, and public places under its jurisdiction as located
within and one mile outside of the city’s boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.1) (Ord. 548, passed - -)
§ 71.02 SPEED OVER REASONABLE AND PRUDENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any alley,
street, highway, or in any public place at a speed that is greater than
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing or at speeds in
excess of those ordained by the city, and any speed in excess of such limit
shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.4) (Ord. 548, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle in such a manner that creates or causes
unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid, or slide upon acceleration or
stopping or that simulates a temporary race or that causes the vehicle to
unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway shall be guilty of exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
VEHICLE CONDUCT
§ 71.15 ENTERING STREET WITHOUT STOPPING.
   The operator of any vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, private drive,
or any entrance to the roadway shall stop such vehicle prior to driving onto a
sidewalk area or the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.5)
§ 71.16 STOP SIGN VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle traversing a street upon which a stop sign
has been erected, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall
bring such vehicle to a full stop at a place within 15 feet of the nearest line
of the intersection of said streets or street alley.
   (B)   After having stopped, the operator of any vehicle shall yield right-
of-way to any vehicle which has entered or is approaching the intersection from
another street and shall not proceed into the intersection until certain that
such intersecting street is free from oncoming traffic which may affect safe
passage.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.6)
§ 71.17 ILLEGAL U-TURN.
   A driver of any vehicle shall not make a U-turn as follows:
   (A)   At an intersection where warned by an official traffic control sign
displaying the words “No U-turn”;
   (B)   In the area mid-block between two intersections; or
   (C)   To park on the opposite side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.18 OPENING AND CLOSING DOORS IN TRAFFIC.
   No person shall open any door on a motor vehicle unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so and can be done without interfering with the movement
of traffic. Further, no person shall leave a door open on a side of a vehicle
available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to
load and unload passengers.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.19 UNREASONABLE NOISE FROM VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow any loud or
unreasonable noise to emit from a vehicle under his or her control that annoys,
disturbs, or endangers the peace or safety of others. Unreasonable noises
include but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device of any automobile,
motorcycle, truck, or other vehicle on any street or public place except as a
danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling devices of any
unreasonable, loud, or harsh sound; the sounding of such devices for any
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time other than by accident or
mechanical, electrical, or other difficulty or failure; and the use of any such
signaling device where traffic is held up;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, phonograph, or other sound
producing machine in such a manner as to disturb the peace of any other person
on or adjacent to the roadway upon which the vehicle is being operated or in
such a manner as to dangerously distract the operator of said vehicle or any
other vehicle;
      (3)   The operation of any vehicle or vehicle engine in a manner that
produces unnecessary engine or exhaust noise; and
      (4)   The operation of any motor vehicle with a dynamic braking device,
Jacobs brakes, engaged except for the aversion of imminent danger.
   (B)   Any public emergency response vehicle equipped with a dynamic braking
device will be allowed to use such device during a response to an emergency
situation.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.20 UNCOVERED OR UNSECURED LOAD VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in such a manner as to cause
spillage of refuse or solid wastes on the streets or road.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.21 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   All funeral processions, parades, and similar events shall be
conducted under the supervision of the city law enforcement. At least 24 hours’
notice shall be given to city law enforcement prior to any parade or
procession.
   (B)   (1)   No driver of any vehicle shall drive through or otherwise
interfere with any funeral or other authorized procession or parade on any of
the streets.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle to stop when
reaching a street on which such a procession is passing and wait until the
procession has entirely passed or otherwise been given a signal to proceed by a
law enforcement officer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person on a parade entry to throw or
otherwise distribute any object such as candy to spectators. This does not
prohibit distribution of candy or other tokens by someone walking along the
curb or sidewalk on the parade route provided that such objects are handed to
individuals and not tossed.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS
§ 71.35 AVOIDANCE OF INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any
sidewalk, driveway, filling station, or any other commercial driveway or other
similar surface located at the corner of any intersection protected by a
traffic sign for the purpose of evading the regulations governing the movement
of any vehicle at an intersection.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.36 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive on any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.37 OPERATION ON RECREATIONAL OR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in any park, recreation area, or
school ground except on the normally traveled roadways or in specifically
designated areas.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.38 OPERATION ON BICYCLE PATH.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or moped within an established and
officially designated bicycle lane or path except when necessary to park where
parking is permitted, for the purpose of ingress or egress to and from
driveways, or for the purpose of intersectional travel.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.39 OPERATION OF TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on roller skates or riding in any toy
vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway except while crossing a street
or crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Time zones for parking
   
72.03   Overtime parking
   
72.04   Truck parking
   
72.05   Diagonally-parked trucks
   
72.06   Double park
   
72.07   Parking in alleys
   
72.08   Parking in theater-designated areas
   
72.09   Unlawful parking areas
   
72.10   Off-street parking
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on a street,
alley, or public place for a longer period than 24 hours except that currently
licensed motor vehicles may be parked for not more than 48 hours. After 48
hours, notice shall be given to remove the vehicle within 24 hours. If the
vehicle is not removed, the city may cause the vehicle to be removed at the
owner’s expense.
   (B)   Motorcycles may be parked diagonally with either the front or rear
wheel touching the curb at any location. No parking space shall be occupied by
more than one automobile or by more than four motorcycles provided that said
motorcycles do not exceed the space normally occupied by one automobile. All
motorcycles will be cited if violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.1) (Ord. 605, passed 9-20-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 TIME ZONES FOR PARKING.
   The Council may limit the time which a vehicle may be parked on certain
streets or sections of streets by erecting appropriate signs marking the area
or parking spaces affected which clearly state the time limit for parking and
the hours of the day which the limit is in effect. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle in any zone so designated for a longer period than
stated on said signs.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 OVERTIME PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on a street,
alley, or public place for a longer period than 24 hours except that currently
licensed motor vehicles may be parked for not more than 48 hours. After 48
hours, notice shall be given to remove the vehicle within 24 hours. If the
vehicle is not removed, the city may cause the vehicle to be removed at the
owner’s expense.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked on any street or public ground for a period
longer than 48 hours in one location or a 50-foot lineal area.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.2) (Ord. 605, passed 9-20-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Parking of commercial vehicles, semi-trailers, and tractors is
permitted on Third Avenue between Veterans Street and Industrial Road.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, whether or not attached to a
truck-tractor, upon any street, city-owned parking lot, or other public
property. It shall also be unlawful to park such trailer on any private
property within any area zoned as a residential district except for the purpose
of loading or unloading the same.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than three-fourths
ton capacity upon any street in the business district which has been duly sign-
posted prohibiting the same. However, parking of such vehicle for a period of
not more than 20 minutes shall be permitted in such space for the purpose of
necessary access to abutting property for loading or unloading when such access
cannot reasonably be secured from an alley or from an adjacent street where
truck parking is not so restricted.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 DIAGONALLY-PARKED TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck exceeding 20 feet in
overall length to park such vehicle diagonally on any street within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 DOUBLE PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle on the roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street except when temporarily engaged in the loading or
unloading of passengers or materials.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any public alley
except that trucks and other vehicles may stop in such alleys for the purpose
of loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 PARKING IN THEATER-DESIGNATED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in that portion of
the street immediately adjacent to and in front of any theater, and the extent
of such restricted parking area shall be marked with no-parking signs erected
at the ends of such restricted areas.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 UNLAWFUL PARKING AREAS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or park such
vehicle on any of the following places:
   (A)   On a crosswalk;
   (B)   Outside the first line of cars parked next to the curb;
   (C)   Within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to the fire station;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   In front of a private driveway;
   (G)   On a sidewalk; and/or
   (H)   Alongside or opposite any street elevation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   No off-street parking of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, watercraft,
or trailers should be permitted in the front yard or rear yard of any residence
except as follows:
   (A)   Upon a driveway providing direct access to the garage or rear yard;
   (B)   Upon any other driveway provided that it is no wider than 22 feet; or
   (C)   Upon the yard area between the driveway and the nearest side lot line.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.11) (Ord. 614, passed 6-20-2023)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Applicability of traffic laws
   
73.02   Obedience to traffic devices and signs
   
73.03   Equipment required
   
73.04   Bicycle operating regulations
   
73.05   Manner of riding
   
73.06   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.07   Parking
Snowmobiles
   
73.20   Registration
   
73.21   Equipment
   
73.22   Authorized operation
   
73.23   Unauthorized operation
   
73.24   Notice of accident
   
73.25   Damage to property
   
73.26   Confiscation and violation
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding or operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted
all the rights of and shall be subject to:
   (A)   All the duties applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle by the
state laws; and
   (B)   The provisions of Chapter 71 declaring rules of the road applicable to
the driver of a vehicle except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances
which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.1)
§ 73.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DEVICES AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of traffic
control devices unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   On any street or intersection where U-turns or other turns are
prohibited and signs are erected and in place so indicating, no person
operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign except that
where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make such turn. The person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake adequate to stop and
control the movement of the bicycle whenever necessary.
   (B)   (1)   Every bicycle, when used between 30 minutes after sunset and 30
minutes before sunrise, shall be equipped with a light and reflectors of a type
approved by the Police Department. A white light must be visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front.
      (2)   An amber reflector shall be located on the frame or the front wheel
so that it is visible from 50 to 300 feet on each side of the bicycle when
directly in front of the lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A red reflector facing the rear must be visible at 50 to 200 feet
when directly in front of the lawful upper beams of the headlamps on a motor
vehicle.
   (C)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person upon a
bicycle use, except a police officer or reserve police officer, any siren.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.5)
§ 73.04 BICYCLE OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle in any of the
following described manners.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under conditions then existing.
   (B)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to the
roadway or as part of the roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and
shall not use the remaining portion of the roadway. Wherever the city has
provided sidewalks and bituminous ramps adjacent to streets for the
accommodation of bicycle riders, such sidewalks and ramps shall be regarded as
usable paths for bicycles.
   (C)   The operators of a bicycle shall stop prior to emerging from any
alley, public or private driveway, or building upon any street or sidewalk or
sidewalk area and shall yield right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians
approaching upon any street, highway, sidewalk, or sidewalk area.
   (D)   There shall be no attachments, in any manner, from the bicycle or
rider to any other vehicle.
   (E)   Towing or drawing any coaster, sled, or person on roller skates, toy
vehicles, or other similar vehicles upon any roadway is prohibited.
   (F)   Riding more than two abreast is prohibited.
   (G)   Carrying any package, bundle, or article which prevents or interferes
with the rider keeping both hands upon the handlebars is prohibited.
   (H)   No bicycle operator shall ride with both hands removed from the
handlebars or both feet from the pedals or practicing any acrobatic riding upon
any bicycle on any roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path.
   (I)   Before turning or changing the direction of any bicycle upon any
street highway, parkway, or public place, it shall be the duty of the bicycle
rider to give a proper hand signal by the extension of the left hand to
indicate the direction of the intended turn.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 MANNER OF RIDING.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride the
permanent and regular seats attached thereto nor shall a bicycle operator carry
any other person upon such bicycle other than on a firmly attached and regular
seat. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle. In that case, the seat must be equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely to the seat, and protection must be provided to prevent the
child’s feet from hitting the spokes of the wheels.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk in the business
district as herein defined. However, persons may dismount and walk their
bicycles on the sidewalk in the business district. The BUSINESS DISTRICT, for
the purposes of this subchapter, shall be that area zoned C1, Central
Commercial District.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding upon a sidewalk in a location other than
the business district, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal or call before overtaking and passing
such pedestrian.
   (C)   Wherever the city has provided sidewalks and bituminous ramps adjacent
to the streets for the accommodation of bicycle riders, such sidewalks and
ramps shall be regarded as usable paths except within the business districts as
stated in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle against any window or parking meter or
on the main traveled portion of the sidewalk or in such manner as to constitute
a hazard to pedestrians, traffic, and/or property.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, when bicycle parking spaces have
been established and designated, no person shall park a bicycle in the vicinity
thereof except in such bicycle parking spaces.
(Prior Code, § 13.5.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.20 REGISTRATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city unless registered in
accordance with the provisions of SDCL § 32-20A-15, and identification numbers
must be displayed as required thereby.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.21 EQUIPMENT.
   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city:
   (A)   Unless it has at least one headlight and one taillight turned on at
all times during operation;
   (B)   Unless it has adequate brakes capable of producing deceleration of 14
feet per second on level ground at 20 mph; and
   (C)   Unless it is equipped with a muffler in good working order in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.22 AUTHORIZED OPERATION.
   (A)   No person may operate a snowmobile on a city street:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing and in no event in excess of 20 mph;
      (2)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs,
barbital, or any derivative of barbital;
      (3)   Except while proceeding to and returning from the city limits by
the most direct route from his or her home or place where said snowmobile is
garaged;
      (4)   In any cemetery;
      (5)   On private property without consent of the property owner or his or
her agent; and/or
      (6)   With more than one passenger on a snowmobile.
   (B)   Any person operating a snowmobile on a city street must:
      (1)   Come to a complete stop at all traffic controlled intersections;
      (2)   Travel as close to the right edge of the plowed area of the street
as practical;
      (3)   Obey all traffic signals, signs, and devices; and
      (4)   Yield the right-of-way to all other traffic and pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.23 UNAUTHORIZED OPERATION.
   (A)   No snowmobile shall be operated to cross any street except at the
intersection of a street.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.3)
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city in a careless or
negligent manner likely to endanger any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.4)
   (C)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any public sidewalk in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.5)
   (D)   No person operating a snowmobile shall tow any person or object behind
such snowmobile except when such person or object is situated upon a conveyance
that is attached to such snowmobile by means of rigid hitch or tow bar.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.24 NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   The operator of a snowmobile involved in an accident resulting in injuries
to or death of any person or property damage in an estimated amount of $100 or
more, some person acting for him or her, or the owner of the snowmobile having
knowledge of the accident shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, notify the law enforcement of the city, a state police officer
or officers, or the Sheriff’s office of the county.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.8)
§ 73.25 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is presumed that any snowmobile operated within the city is
operated with the consent of the owner.
   (B)   The owner of the snowmobile will be held jointly and severally liable
with the driver thereof for damages arising out of the negligent or improper
operation of his or her snowmobile.
   (C)   The owner of a snowmobile may be held jointly and severally liable to
a property owner for three times the amount of damages to trees, shrubs,
landscaping, or personal property occurring on private property and caused by
said snowmobile where the snowmobile is operated without the consent of the
property owner or agent.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.9)
§ 73.26 CONFISCATION AND VIOLATION.
   (A)   Confiscation of snowmobiles. Any machine operated contrary to or in
violation of any provisions of this subchapter by one other than the owner of
the snowmobile, who can prove such ownership, or being operated with defective
equipment may be confiscated at the direction of the Police Department of the
city. In the event a snowmobile is confiscated, the owner of the snowmobile
must pay the cost of transportation, towing, and storing of the snowmobile
before it will be released to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.10)
   (B)   Violation misdemeanor. Any person who violates the provisions of this
subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable according to the
general provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.7.11)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Street crossing
   
74.02   Right-of-way
   
74.03   Yielding to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.04   Soliciting of rides
§ 74.01 STREET CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route
at right angles to the curb at an intersection with a marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   A pedestrian may cross the roadway at a place other than an
intersection provided that there is a marked crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 13.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle operating on or crossing a sidewalk shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
   (B)   A pedestrian traveling on the sidewalk shall have right-of-way over
any other traffic on the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 13.4.4)
§ 74.03 YIELDING TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals, as required by state law, every pedestrian shall
yield right-of-way to the authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13.4.3)
§ 74.04 SOLICITING OF RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or walk in the roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the operator of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13.4.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   On any street, the speed limit shall be 25 mph unless otherwise
posted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to exceed the 25 mph limit or any posted limit or
to exceed any of the following limitations:
      (1)   Ten mph in any alleys unless otherwise posted;
      (2)   Fifteen mph within Flandreau City Park;
      (3)   Fifteen mph on 2nd Avenue from Prairie Street to Center Street;
      (4)   Fifteen mph on 2nd Avenue from George Billam Drive to 12th Street
when children are present;
      (5)   Fifteen mph on Community Drive from Veterans Street to George
Billam Drive;
      (6)   Fifteen mph on 12th Street from 2nd Avenue to 1st Avenue when
children are present;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on George Billam Drive from 2nd Avenue to 1st Avenue
when children are present;
      (8)   Fifteen mph on 1st Avenue from 13th Street to Wilson Street when
children are present;
      (9)   Fifteen mph on Wilson Street from 1st Avenue to Bridge Avenue;
      (10)   Fifteen mph on Bridge Avenue from West Street to Wilson Street;
and
      (11)   Ten mph within the city cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 13.3.3) (Ord. 574, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Street cleaning and snow removal
SCHEDULE I. STREET CLEANING AND SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   To facilitate street cleaning operations, there shall be no parking on
the streets named in division (C) below from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on Friday
mornings.
   (B)   To facilitate snow removal operations, there shall be no parking on
the streets named in division (C) below from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on any
other day of the week where there has been an accumulation of two inches or
more of snow within a 24-hour period. Said streets shall be posted accordingly.
   (C)   Designated snow routes are:
Street Location
Street           Location
Center Street    From First Avenue to Pipestone Avenue
Crescent Street  From First Avenue to Third Avenue
Pipestone Avenue From Industrial Road to Summit Street (Highway 13)
Prairie Street   From First Avenue to Pipestone Avenue
Second Avenue    From Center Street to Prairie Street
Third Avenue     From Wind Street to Crescent Street
Wilson Street    From Third Avenue to First Avenue
Wind Street      From First Avenue to Third Avenue
 
   (D)   During the snow season when plowing is necessary, all vehicles parked
on city streets and avenues must be moved within 24 hours after the snow plow
has passed the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13.6.3) (Ord. 531, passed - -; Ord. 605, passed 9-20-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Be a responsible pet owner
   
90.004   Enforcement
   
90.005   Contracting for care
Keeping Animals
   
90.020   Allowable animals
   
90.021   Number of animals
   
90.022   Running at large
   
90.023   Cruelty and abandonment
   
90.024   Defecation removal
   
90.025   Rabid animals and disease transmission
   
90.026   Poison
Licenses, Tags, and the Like
   
90.040   License
   
90.041   Fees and tags
   
90.042   Immunizations
   
90.043   Immunization tags
Vicious Animals
   
90.055   Who may declare
   
90.056   Willful trespass
   
90.057   Notification
   
90.058   Compliance and prosecution
   
90.059   Animals off premises
   
90.060   Kennel standards
   
90.061   Insurance and licensing
   
90.062   Impoundment and euthanization
Rabid Animals
   
90.075   Report of suspected cases
   
90.076   Impoundment for observation
   
90.077   Destruction of rabid animals
Residential Fowl
   
90.080   Definitions
   
90.081   Purpose
   
90.082   Enforcement
   
90.083   Limitations
   
90.084   Permit required
   
90.085   Application
   
90.086   Permit conditions; revocation; fees
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to describe the conditions and requirements
allowing citizens to keep animals within the city and to describe the city’s
responsibilities to its citizens regarding the humane and appropriate keeping
of animals within the city.
(Prior Code, Title 6)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. ANIMAL
also includes fowl, fish, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Some person or agency appointed to be responsible
for the care and maintenance of the animal shelter and who shall work with
other law enforcement officials in the enforcement of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A building and facilities therein approved by the City
Council for the impoundment of animals.
   CRUELTY. Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering,
or death of an animal is caused or permitted including failure to provide
proper drink, air, space, shelter, protection from the elements, sanitary and
safe living environment, veterinary care, or nutritious food in siphoned
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, CRUELTY shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
   DISTURBANCE. The act of disturbing the peace and quiet of the neighborhood
by continuous barking or making other loud or unusual noises.
   IMPOUND. Taking into custody of an animal by any police officer, animal
control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain by which an animal is controlled by the
person accompanying it.
   NUISANCE. The act of destroying, defacing property, causing injury to
persons or domestic animals.
   OWNER. Any person keeping, having in their custody or control, or
maintaining an animal. The occupant of any premises on which an animal remains
or to which it customarily returns daily for a period of ten days is presumed
to be keeping the animal within the meaning of this chapter.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal when off or away from the premises and not under
the control of the owner, possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of his
or her immediate family by a leash. Also, an animal when on the premises of the
owner, possessor, keeper, agent, or servant if not attended by a competent
person unless the animal is chained, restrained, enclosed, or confined in a
manner preventing it from leaving the premises.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches in an apparent attitude to attack, bite, inflict injury, assault, or
otherwise attack a person or other animal whether on public or private property
provided that the animal has not been provoked to do so by teasing, tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.1)
§ 90.003 BE A RESPONSIBLE PET OWNER.
   (A)   Keep vaccinations up-to-date for all dogs, cats, and ferrets. This
requirement is important not only to keep pets from getting rabies but also to
provide a barrier of protection if a pet is bitten by a rabid wild animal.
   (B)   Keep pets under direct supervision so they do not come in contact with
wild animals. If a pet is bitten by a wild animal, seek veterinary assistance
for the animal immediately.
   (C)   Call the local animal control officer to remove any stray animals from
the neighborhood. They may be unvaccinated and could be infected by the
disease.
   (D)   Spay or neuter pets to help reduce the number of unwanted pets that
may not be properly cared for or regularly vaccinated.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.1)
§ 90.004 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority. The animal control officer, any law enforcement officer, or
other person of proper authority is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce
all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Interference prohibited. No person shall hinder, delay, or obstruct
any person in their ability to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Allowable enforcement activities. Any person authorized to enforce the
provisions of this chapter shall, having reasonable basis to believe a
violation of this chapter has occurred, have the power to:
      (1)   Lawfully enter the premises where the animal(s) is/are kept;
      (2)   Examine such animal; and
      (3)   Take possession and impound such animal(s) when, in the officer’s
opinion, a violation has occurred. Any animal impounded under this chapter
shall be dealt with as provided herein.
   (D)   Impounded animals. Any impounded animal shall not be released by the
animal control officer to any person until such animal has been immunized
against rabies; however, no animal so impounded shall be immunized if the owner
can present a certificate of current immunization having been previously
performed.
      (1)   Notice to owner. The owner of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this chapter, if his or her identity and location can be obtained
by reasonable means, shall be notified within 24 hours that his or her animal
has been impounded.
      (2)   Costs. Before any person may redeem any animal impounded under the
provision of this chapter, that person shall pay to the person or proper
authority an impoundment fee as set by the City Council. The person redeeming
such impounded animal, under the provisions of this chapter, shall receive a
dated receipt signed by the City Finance Officer or animal control officer. The
receipt for payment of impoundment and boarding costs must be presented to the
person, association, or corporation housing the impounded animal before such
animal may be redeemed.
         (a)   The owner of any impounded animal that has not been vaccinated
or licensed under this chapter, upon satisfactory proof of ownership, may
redeem the animal by payment of the fees determined by the City Council. In
addition, by making a deposit of $50, the owner shall be allowed 48 hours to
get such animal vaccinated and properly licensed. If the owner fails to produce
a certificate of vaccination and city license within 48 hours, the deposit
shall be forfeited and turned over to the City Finance Officer to be placed in
the General Fund and the animal may be impounded again. Upon presentation
within 48 hours of a license being issued and certificate of vaccination, the
deposit shall be refunded.
         (b)   If the owner of any impounded animal shall fail to redeem the
animal within five days, including Sundays and holidays, unclaimed animals will
be put up for adoption or disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 6.5) (Ord. 546, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 CONTRACTING FOR CARE.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to enter into any contract with any
person, association, or corporation for the housing, care, disposition, or
destruction of animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.7.1)
KEEPING ANIMALS
§ 90.020 ALLOWABLE ANIMALS.
   Animals that can be bought from a commercial pet store in the state; except
alligator, crocodile, cayman, raccoon, skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous
snake, hybrids, member of the feline species other than domestic cat (felis
domesticus), member of the canine species other than domestic dog (canis
familiaris), or any other animal that would require a standard of care and
control greater than that required for customary household pets; are allowable
animals authorized by this chapter and can be kept in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.2)
§ 90.021 NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to own on any premises more than four animals,
except birds and fish, over the age of six months.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner of any animal shall permit such animal to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 CRUELTY AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Cruelty prohibited. No owner of any animal shall permit such animal to
be subjected to cruelty.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.5)
   (B)   Abandonment prohibited. No person shall abandon an animal in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.7)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 DEFECATION REMOVAL.
   No owner of any animal shall allow such animal to defecate on public or
private property other than his or her own. If such animal does defecate on
public or private property, the owner must immediately and thoroughly clean the
fecal matter from such property.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 RABID ANIMALS AND DISEASE TRANSMISSION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly keep any animal infected with rabies or any
animal that has been bitten by an animal that has been infected with rabies.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.8)
   (B)   No person shall create or maintain any condition or operate any
equipment or keep any animal, fowl, pet, or insect under his or her
jurisdiction in such a way that such condition or operation causes or is likely
to cause the transmission of diseases from animals or insects to people.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.9)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 POISON.
   Unless recommended by the health authority, it shall be unlawful for any
person to:
   (A)   Willfully administer, or cause to be administered, poison of any sort
whatsoever to any animal that is the property of another with the intent to
injure or destroy such animal; and/or
   (B)   Willfully place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to any such animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.2.10) Penalty, see §
90.999
LICENSES, TAGS, AND THE LIKE
§ 90.040 LICENSE.
   Any owner of a dog or cat shall make application to the City Finance Officer
for a license. Such application shall be in writing stating the name, sex,
color, and other distinguishing characteristics of said dog or cat as well as
the name of the owner thereof and that said dog or cat has no vicious
propensities so far as known to the application. The application shall be made
on a printed blank furnished by the City Finance Officer and shall be filed
with said City Finance Officer. Licenses issued pursuant to this section are
valid from January 1 through December 31. Costs will be prorated by quarters.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.1)
§ 90.041 FEES AND TAGS.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay to the City Finance Officer as a license fee
the sum of $10 for unspayed or unneutered dogs and cats of one year of age or
older. They shall pay the sum of $5 for spayed or neutered dogs and cats and
all dogs and cats under the age of one year. In the case of spayed or neutered
animals, the applicant must furnish a registered veterinarian’s statement
confirming that fact. A certificate by a registered veterinarian showing that
such dog or cat has been inoculated or has a continuing immunity against rabies
within six months of such application shall accompany the application.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer at the time of the
issuance of the license herein provided for to furnish and deliver to said
applicant a metallic fiber or plastic tag for each dog and cat for which such
license is issued. The tag shall be stamped or engraved with the registered
number of the dog or cat and the year when registered. It shall then be the
duty of the owner of the dog or cat to place a collar around the neck of such
animal so owned and kept by him or her, on which collar shall be securely
fastened a tag so furnished by the City Finance Officer.
   (C)   In case of the loss of any tag so issued, the said City Finance
Officer is authorized to issue a duplicate thereof upon payment of the actual
cost of same, upon application being made therefore, and upon satisfactory
proof that such tag has been lost.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.2)
§ 90.042 IMMUNIZATIONS.
   (A)   Except fowl, fish, and reptile, every animal authorized by this
chapter held as a domestic pet in the city three months of age or older is
hereby required to be immunized against rabies by a licensed veterinarian or
other qualified person.
   (B)   Immunization against rabies shall be given by such intervals to
guarantee immunity, and the minimum time period between vaccinations shall be
determined by the available vaccine and based upon the recommendations and
approval of the State Veterinarian. Any owner acquiring an animal authorized by
this chapter by purchase, gift, birth, or other method shall have such animal
immunized against rabies immediately after acquisition or when the animal
reaches the age of three months. In the event no immunization serum is
available for a particular animal, it need not be immunized.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.3)
§ 90.043 IMMUNIZATION TAGS.
   (A)   All veterinarians or other qualified persons designated by the health
officer to immunize animals against rabies shall provide the owner at the time
of immunization with a metallic tag bearing the date of the immunization.
   (B)   All animals shall wear the aforementioned tag on a collar, harness, or
chain when off the premises of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.3.4)
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.055 WHO MAY DECLARE.
   The Mayor, animal control officer, a law enforcement officer, or an
attending physician of any victim of an animal bite or scratch may declare an
animal vicious.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.1)
§ 90.056 WILLFUL TRESPASS.
   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is sustained to
any person or animal that is committing a willful trespass or other tort or
criminal act upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.2)
§ 90.057 NOTIFICATION.
   When an animal is declared to be vicious, the city shall notify the owner or
keeper of such declaration in writing that such animal is vicious which notice
shall be serviced either in person or by mailing such notice as certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.3)
§ 90.058 COMPLIANCE AND PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Compliance. The owner or keeper of an animal that has been declared
vicious then must comply with the following.
      (1)   If the animal is kept indoors, the animal shall be under the
control of a person over 18 years of age.
      (2)   If the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than six feet, and under the control of a person
over 18 years of age.
      (3)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in an escape- proof kennel approved by the Chief of Police or his or her
representative.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.4)
   (B)   Prosecution. The owner may be subject to prosecution for failure to
comply. Animals impounded under this subchapter shall be dealt with as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.11)
§ 90.059 ANIMALS OFF PREMISES.
   Any vicious animal found off the premises of its owner, other than as
provided for in this subchapter, shall be seized by the animal control officer
or any police officer and impounded. If the animal cannot be captured, it may
be destroyed. If the animal has been running at large or bites a person or
bites another animal, the animal control officer or any police officer may
order the owner to deliver the animal to the animal shelter within 24 hours.
The owner shall be ordered to appear in court to show just cause why this
animal shall not be destroyed. If the owner of the animal fails to deliver the
animal as ordered, the animal control officer or any police officer shall use
such means as is necessary to impound the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.5)
§ 90.060 KENNEL STANDARDS.
   Minimum standards shall include the following.
   (A)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of more than
two inches, and in the case of a wooden fence, the gaps shall not be more than
two inches.
   (B)   Any gates within such pen or structure shall be lockable and of such
design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal.
   (C)   The required pen or structure shall have a top and bottom with both
secured to the sides.
   (D)   The pen or structure shall protect the animal from the elements.
   (E)   The pen or structure may be required to have double exterior walls to
prevent the insertion of fingers, hands, or other objects within reach of the
animal.
   (F)   A sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed on the kennel or
enclosure and on a place visible from the sidewalk or road adjacent to the
property where the animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.6)
§ 90.061 INSURANCE AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Insurance. The owner shall carry a minimum of $250,000 in liability
insurance for the purpose of covering the medical and/or veterinary costs
resulting from the vicious actions or any other damages the animal may do or
cause to be done. Proof of such insurance shall be filed with the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.7)
   (B)   Licensing requirements. The owner shall comply with the licensing
requirements of the city ordinances and present proof of a current rabies
vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.8)
(Ord. 534, passed - -)
§ 90.062 IMPOUNDMENT AND EUTHANIZATION.
   (A)   Impoundment. The city, at the owner or keeper’s expense, may impound
the vicious animal until such time as all provisions outlined in this
subchapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.9)
   (B)   Euthanization. If the conditions in this subchapter are not complied
with, the owner shall euthanize the animal in a humane manner. Proof of
euthanasia shall be filed with the city office.
(Prior Code, § 6.4.10)
RABID ANIMALS
§ 90.075 REPORT OF SUSPECTED CASES.
   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the city is infected with
rabies shall report said animal to the animal control officer or the local law
enforcement by describing the animal and giving the name and address of the
owner if known. Anytime the animal control officer or any law enforcement
officer suspects an animal within the city is infected with rabies, the city
may require it to be impounded for observation as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6.6.1)
§ 90.076 IMPOUNDMENT FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   When any owner of an animal has been notified that the animal has
bitten or attacked any person, the owner must, within 24 hours, place the
animal under the care and observation of the animal control officer or a
licensed veterinarian. The period of observation shall be a period of not less
than ten days except in those cases when an animal has bitten or attacked while
on the premises of the owner and the owner has a current rabies vaccination for
the animal. The animal control officer or any law enforcement officer may, if
he or she feels the facilities are adequate and if the owner is a responsible
person, quarantine the animal on the owner’s premises. In this case, the owner
must sign a statement, understand the responsibility, and assume the liability
that is involved with the quarantine of an animal that has bitten. The
quarantined animal must, at all times, be available for inspection during the
quarantine.
   (B)   At the end of the ten-day observation period, the animal shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian and, if cleared, may be reclaimed by the
owner, and the owner must pay the expenses incurred resulting thereto.
   (C)   Any animal impounded or placed for observation showing active signs of
rabies, suspected of having rabies, or known to have been exposed to rabies
shall be confined under competent observation for such time as may be deemed
necessary to determine a diagnosis.
   (D)   Any animal that has bitten or attacked that cannot be captured may be
destroyed in such a manner that the head is not damaged and can be submitted
for a rabies examination to a laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 6.6.2)
§ 90.077 DESTRUCTION OF RABID ANIMALS.
   Any animal reasonably believed to have rabies and if, under the
circumstances, it is not reasonable to impound or to attempt to seize that
animal for the purpose of further observation, a law enforcement officer or the
animal control officer may destroy the animal. The owner shall pay any expense
incident to the impoundment, destruction, or diagnosis of rabid animals
thereof. Neither the city nor any person authorized by this section shall be
liable for the destruction of any animal when done under circumstances as set
forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.6.3)
RESIDENTIAL FOWL
§ 90.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOWL. A domesticated bird of the order Galliformes or other similar order of
animals, and including chickens, geese, quail, ducks, that serves as a source
of eggs or meat for human consumption.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of fowl permitted by this
chapter.
   HEN. A female fowl.
   OFFICER. The City Administrator or their designee.
   ROOSTER. A male fowl.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 90.081 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit the keeping and
maintenance of hens for egg and meat sources in a clean and sanitary manner
that is not a nuisance or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the community.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 90.082 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator or their designee shall have authority in the
investigation and enforcement of this subchapter, and no person shall interfere
with or hinder any such officer in the exercise of such powers. The officer
shall make investigations as is necessary and may grant or deny, any
application for permit or terminate an existing permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 90.083 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The keeping of fowl shall be permitted as an accessory use in
conjunction with detached, owner-occupied single-family dwelling uses only in
the R2 General Residential or R3 Residential Manufactured Home Districts. Such
practice is prohibited in any other district unless explicitly authorized by
ordinance.
      (1)   Any person who seeks to keep hens at a single address within an
eligible district must first apply and be approved for a fowl permit by the
City Administrator.
      (2)   No more than six hens are allowed at a single address.
      (3)   Fowl permits are issued at the discretion of the City
Administrator.
      (4)   Fowl permits will be issued one-time and held by the applicant in
perpetuity.
      (5)   Fowl must remain inside a coop or fenced structure at all times.
   (B)   Roosters are prohibited.
   (C)   Slaughtering of fowl on the property is permitted. Owners may
slaughter fowl for the purpose of personal consumption on their property in
areas not visible from the public right-of-way. Slaughtering must be completed
in an appropriate manner so as to comply with all other ordinances, including
Chapter 130, and specifically §
130.03.
   (D)   Any person keeping fowl pursuant to this section is required to
construct a free-standing coop to house the fowl. Coops must be constructed and
maintained to meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Located in the rear or side yard;
      (2)   Setback at least five feet from the rear or side property lines;
      (3)   Rodent-proof coop construction and materials must be adequate to
prevent access by rodents;
      (4)   Coops shall be constructed and maintained in a workmanlike manner;
and
      (5)   Any structure or enclosure for keeping such animals may not be
closer than 25 feet to any dwelling or building used for human habitation other
than that of the owner of said animal or the owner's family.
   (E)   Fowl must not be housed in a residential dwelling or an attached or
detached garage.
   (F)   All premises on which hens are kept or maintained shall be kept clean
from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The coop and its
surrounding must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor. Manure shall not
be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary condition or causes
odors detectible on another property.
   (G)   All grain and food stored for the use of the hens on a premise with a
fowl permit shall be kept in a rodent-proof container.
   (H)   Hens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance to
the occupants of adjacent property.
   (I)   Dead fowl must be disposed of according to the South Dakota Animal
Industry Board rules, which require fowl carcasses to be disposed of as soon as
possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of fowl
carcass disposal include off-site burial, off-site incineration or rendering.
   (J)   All other conditions established by the City Administrator.
   (K)   Failure to comply with these conditions may result in revocation of a
fowl permit and/or removal of fowl from the premises
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.084 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any property owner to maintain fowl within the city
without first obtaining and possessing a valid registration permit. Any person
subject to this section keeping fowl prior to the enactment of this section
shall have until October 1, 2025, to request and obtain a fowl permit in
accordance herewith and to maintain activities in a manner in compliance with
this section, or to cease all activity subject to this section. It is unlawful
for any person to act in violation of this subchapter and any person in
violation of this subchapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that a person is in violation of
this section may be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.085 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a permit required under the provisions of this
subchapter shall make written application to the city upon a form prescribed by
and containing such information as required by the city and officer. Among
other things, the application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   A description of the real property upon which it is desired to keep
the fowl;
   (B)   The number of fowl to be maintained on the premises;
   (C)   A site plan of the property showing the location and size of the
proposed fowl coop, setbacks from the fowl coop to property lines and
surrounding buildings (including houses and buildings on adjacent lots), and
the location, style, and height of fencing proposed to contain the fowl.
Portable coops and cages are allowed, but portable locations must be included
with the site plan;
   (D)   Statements that the applicant will at all times keep the fowl in
accordance with all of the conditions prescribed by the officer, or
modification thereof, and that failure to obey such conditions will constitute
a violation of the provisions of this subchapter and grounds for cancellation
of the permit; and
   (E)   Such other and further information as may be required by the officer.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 90.086 PERMIT CONDITIONS; REVOCATION; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall (without first obtaining a permit in writing from the
city) own, keep, harbor, or have custody of any live fowl. If granted, the
permit shall be issued by the city and officer and shall state the conditions,
if any, imposed upon the permittee for the keeping of fowl under this permit.
The permit shall specify the restrictions, limitations, conditions, and
prohibitions which the officer deems reasonably necessary to protect any person
or neighboring use from unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or odors, or
annoyance, or to promote the public health and safety. Such permit may be
modified from time to time or revoked for failure to conform to such
restrictions, limitations, prohibitions. Such modification or revocation shall
be effective after ten days following the mailing of written notice thereof by
certified mail to the person or persons keeping or maintaining such fowl.
   (B)   The City Administrator or designee may revoke any permit issued under
this subchapter if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply
with this subchapter, with any regulations promulgated by the City Council
pursuant to this subchapter, or with any state or local law governing cruelty
to animals or the keeping of animals. Any person whose permit is revoked shall,
within ten days thereafter, humanely dispose of all fowl being owned, kept, or
harbored by such person, and no part of the permit fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   Coops, runs, and other fenced areas that go unutilized for a period of
one year shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be removed by the owner at the
owner's expense.
   (D)   Any property failing to conform to the provisions of this subchapter
may be entered upon by the city and have all violations corrected at the
expense of the property owner.
   (E)   The permit granted under this section shall be issued one-time and
shall be valid in perpetuity, unless the property owner violates the conditions
of the permit.
   (F)   For each residential site, the fee for a permit may be imposed, set,
established, and fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 623, passed 10-21-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter may result in the impoundment of the animals
if such is required by this chapter. Upon conviction thereof, the owner of any
animal may be punished according to the general punishment provisions of the
city’s revised code.
(Prior Code, § 6.7.2)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of National Code
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Definition
   
91.04   Storage of flammable liquids and liquified petroleum
   
91.05   Modifications
   
91.06   Appeals
Fire Department
   
91.20   Officers
   
91.21   Duties of the Chief
   
91.22   Membership
   
91.23   Equipment
   
91.24   Right-of-way and obstructions
   
91.25   Enforcement
   
91.26   False alarms prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF NATIONAL CODE
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property due to fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the International Fire Code, recommended
by the International Code Council, particularly the 2021 edition thereof and
the whole thereof save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended and of which code that not less than two copies have been
and now are filed in the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (B)   The same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the date on which this subchapter shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code 4.1.1) (Ord. 545, passed, - -)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall enforce the code.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.2)
§ 91.03 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it shall
be held to mean the City of Flandreau.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.3)
§ 91.04 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM.
   In the Fire Code hereby adopted, the limits referred to in § 3406.2.4.4 in
which the storage of flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is
prohibited and the limits in § 3504.2 in which bulk storage of liquified
petroleum gas is restricted are established as follows: the fire limits as
established by the Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.4) (Ord. 545, passed - -)
§ 91.05 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted upon application, in writing, by the
owner, lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code provided
that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety prioritized, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification, when granted or
allowed, and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be
entered upon the records of the Department, and a signed copy shall be
furnished by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.5)
§ 91.06 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Council
within 30 days from the date of the decision of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 4.1.6)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 91.20 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Department shall consist of the Chief, one Assistant Chief and
other officers as the Chief and membership may deem necessary for the effective
operation of the Department.
   (B)   The membership shall elect the Chief for a period of time; tenure of
office shall depend upon the Chief’s good conduct and efficiency. The Chief
shall be technically qualified by training and experience and shall have
ability to command men and women and hold their respect and confidence. The
Chief shall be removed only for just cause and after a public hearing before
the membership.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the City Council only and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as this subchapter may require. All
other Department and company officers shall be accountable to the Chief only.
   (D)   The Assistant Chief and the membership shall elect all other
department and company officers. Such officers shall be accountable only to the
Chief and subject to removal by him or her along with the majority vote of the
membership present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.1)
§ 91.21 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Department and shall be responsible to the city for the personnel, morale, and
general efficiency of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall determine the number and order of response from the
companies of which the Department is to be composed and shall determine the
response of such companies to alarms.
   (C)   The Chief shall, at least once a month, conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid, rescue work,
salvage, study of buildings within city limits, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire.
   (D)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires.
   (E)   The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises, at any reasonable hour, for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.
   (F)   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard or hazards
shall comply therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
   (G)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel, and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (H)   The Chief shall report monthly to the Mayor and City Council the
condition of the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month,
their location, cause, and dates of same and loss occasioned thereby; the
number and purpose of all other runs made; the number of members responding to
each fire or other run; and any changes in membership.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The membership of the Department shall consist of such persons as may
be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the Council, and shall be
able-bodied citizens. The Chief shall make determination of whether candidates
for election are able-bodied after a medical and physical examination has been
made in a manner prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Department.
   (B)   Any member of the Department may be suspended or discharged by the
Chief at any time the Chief may deem such action necessary for the good of the
Department. On written request of such member to the Department, he or she
shall be given a public hearing on the charges brought by the Chief. Such
hearing shall be had before a majority of the members of the Department, and
after such hearing, upon a vote of the members of the Department so present, a
majority vote shall either permanently suspend or reinstate said member.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.3)
§ 91.23 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be require to, from time to time, maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the
Chief and, after approval by the Council, shall be purchased in such manner as
may be designated by the Council.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in such places as may be designated by the City Council. Such places
shall be heated during the winter season.
   (D)   Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be provided for citizens to
turn in an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they
may promptly respond.
   (E)   A person shall not use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose nor shall any person willfully, and without proper authority, take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
   (F)   A person shall not enter any place where a fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
members of the Department.
   (G)   The Chief of the Fire Department is hereby authorized to enter into
agreements or contracts with nearby incorporated communities or governing
bodies of other organizations to provide the members of such communities or
organizations with fire protection or to establish a mutual aid system
provided, however, that all such contracts and agreements shall be approved by
the City Council.
   (H)   Apparatus shall not be hired out or permitted to leave the city
without the consent of the Chief, except in response to a call for aid at a
fire in a neighboring community. The officer in charge of the Department shall
have power to assign equipment for response to calls for outside aid in
accordance with division (G) above and in other cases only when the absence of
such equipment will not jeopardize protection in this city.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 RIGHT-OF-WAY AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   All motor equipment and all personal cars of Department members shall
have the right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.5.1)
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to
be placed within 20 feet of the entrance to any fire station or other place
where a fire apparatus is stored within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or cistern.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.5.2)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All regularly elected members of the Department are hereby given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   It is hereby made the special duty of the local law enforcement
officer and/or other peace officers who may be on duty and available for fire
duty to respond to all fire alarms and assist the Department in protecting life
and property, regulating traffic, maintaining order, and enforcing observance
of all sections of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.6)
§ 91.26 FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned in a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.5.3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
91.21(F), 91.23(E) and (F), 91.24, and 91.26 may be convicted for each such
offense and punished according to the general punishment provisions of the city
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4.2.6.1)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Garbage and Refuse
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Litter
   
92.03   Burning
   
92.04   Restricted use of landfill
Public and Private Nuisances
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   General information
   
92.17   Enumeration of nuisances
   
92.18   Building maintenance nuisances
   
92.19   Administrative proceedings
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code, see §
150.07
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The elected and/or designated official, authorized agent, or employee
of the City of Flandreau, lying within Moody County, South Dakota, assigned to
carry out the enforcement of this subchapter.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS and DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Waste building materials
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on
pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of solid waste into or on the land so that the solid waste or any of
its constituents may enter the environment, be discharged to any waters
including groundwater, or be emitted into the air.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICES. Includes, but not exclusively limited to, such items as
desktop and laptop computers, monitors, mainframe computers, battery backup
uninterruptible power supplies, printers, scanners, copy machines, fax
machines, televisions, microwaves, toasters, video cassette recorders, laser
disc players, digital video disc players, stereo receivers, video game
consoles, MP3 players, cellular phones, radios, and digital and electronic
cameras.
   FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT. Any single independent family unit irrespective of the
number of persons constituting such family but shall not include a situation
where more than one family lives together in any single residence or abode. In
such situation, each of the independent families shall be deemed and regarded
as a separate and distinct FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT. Each independent family unit
living in a multiple dwelling residence, apartment house or any type of
residence, including trailer houses, shall each be deemed a FAMILY DOMESTIC
UNIT for the purposes of this subchapter. A rooming house that supplies lodging
only for hire and which does not serve meals to any lodgers and does not permit
cooking and eating on the premises shall be deemed a FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT for
the purposes of this subchapter.
   GARBAGE. Solid and semisolid putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food and material intended for use as food and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, from all public and private
establishments and from all residences.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Solid waste and/or combination of solid waste which,
because of the quantity, the concentration, or the physical or chemical or
infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute to, an
increase in mortality; an increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible illness; or pose a substantial, present, or potential hazard to
human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, managed,
transported or disposed of. HAZARDOUS WASTE does not include radioactive
material or mining wastes which are exempt pursuant to federal or state law.
   HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Includes such items as refuse, sweepings, cleanings,
trash, litter, and domestic solid waste. HOUSEHOLD REFUSE shall not include any
household hazardous waste, as defined by state or federal regulations.
   LITTER. Garbage, rubbish, waste material, or animal waste improperly
disposed of by discarding, abandoning, allowing to accumulate, scattering, or
depositing the same outside an approved container.
   PLASTIC. Any synthetic material made of polymeric organic compounds and
additives that can be shaped by flow.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. Any fire other than the fire described as a refuse fire
or incinerator fire, but not limited to fireplaces, grills, fire pits, or other
burning approved by the underwriter’s laboratory and fueled by wood, wood
pellets, grain, newspaper, natural or propane gas, or any other combustible
material used in the preparation of food or enjoyment of an open flame.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible wastes including, but not limited
to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residues, street
cleanings, market and industrial solid wastes, and sewage treatment wastes in
dry or semisolid form.
   RESTRICTED USE LANDFILL. A permitted solid waste disposal site that receives
certain non-putrescible waste limited to yard debris, garden vines, trees,
scrap lumber, untreated wood products, and similar type wastes and permits the
temporary storage of white goods and waste tires.
   RUBBLE. Includes such items as stone, brick, concrete, or similar inorganic
material.
   TREES. Trunks, limbs, stumps, shavings, or branches from trees or shrubs.
   WHITE GOODS. Includes such major residential and commercial appliances as
air conditioners, clothes dryers, clothes washers, dishwashers, freezers,
kitchen ranges, refrigerators, and water heaters.
   WASTE OIL. Any oil after use that is contaminated through storage or
handling before the oil is recycled.
   WASTE TIRES. Tires that are no longer suitable for their original intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
   YARD DEBRIS. Includes such items as grass, lawn clippings, and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.1)
§ 92.02 LITTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast, or deposit upon
any street, alley, sidewalk, or any yard or premises, public or private, any
filth of any kind or cans, paper, trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles, or
any other form of litter or waste matter. The owner or occupant of any store or
other place of business situated within the city shall exercise reasonable
diligence at all times to keep their premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping
paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers, and other used or waste
materials thrown or left on said premises by any person and shall also take
reasonable measure to prevent the same from drifting or blowing onto adjoining
properties.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 BURNING.
   (A)   Burning prohibited. It shall be unlawful, unless otherwise authorized,
to burn refuse, garbage, hazardous materials, plastics, electronic devices,
waste oil, waste tires, trees, and yard debris within the city.
   (B)   Recreational fire permitted. Recreational fires, as defined in §
92.01, are permitted within the city provided the following requirements are
met.
      (1)   If the recreational fire is contained within a structure, the
equipment or apparatus shall be approved by either the underwriter’s laboratory
or by the Fire Chief as safe for the conduction of said activity.
      (2)   Such recreational fire may be within ten feet of a structure and
located upon either a deck or patio.
      (3)   Shovels, garden hose, or fire extinguisher with a minimum of a 4-
A rating shall be readily available for use. Such attendant shall supervise the
recreational fire until the fire has been extinguished.
      (4)   The Fire Chief is authorized to require a recreational fire be
immediately extinguished if, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, the fire
constitutes a hazardous condition.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RESTRICTED USE OF LANDFILL.
   (A)   Designation. The City Council shall, from time to time, designate an
area or areas to be known as a restricted use landfill for the receipt and
deposit of trees, scrap lumber, untreated wood, yard debris, and, in some
cases, the temporary storage of white goods and waste tires.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The City Council may promulgate rules and
regulations to carry out the intent of this subchapter, and any such rules and
regulations so adopted shall be filed with the Finance Officer prior to the
effective date thereof and published in accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   Publication of rules and regulations. The publication of rules and
regulations for the use of the restricted use landfill shall consist of
approval by the City Council and filing with the city’s Finance Officer.
   (D)   Disposal fees. Each individual, firm, or business desiring to make use
of any restricted land fill shall pay to the city, or its authorized agent, the
appropriate fee according to the rate schedule adopted by the City Council.
   (E)   Certain materials excluded. At the discretion of the Mayor, City
Council, City Administrator, or landfill caretaker, certain materials may be
excluded from the landfill. All such prohibited materials shall be so indicated
in the city’s rules and regulations as established in this section.
   (F)   Unlawful dumping. It shall be unlawful to dump or deposit any
materials not so permitted by the city’s rules and regulations as established
in this section. For each act of unlawful dumping, a fine shall be imposed, and
depending upon the severity of the act, the party may be banned from further
use of the restricted use landfill.
   (G)   Removal of material. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or
cause to be removed from the restricted use landfill any article or material of
any kind that has been lawfully deposited there.
(Prior Code, § 16.1.4) Penalty, see §
92.99
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Includes, without being so restricted, deteriorated,
wrecked, partially dismantled, or inoperative motor vehicles.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons or property.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the City Council, from time to
time, to serve as the city official authorized to assist in the enforcement of
this subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Flandreau, Moody County, South Dakota.
   CITY COUNCIL. City Council of the City of Flandreau, Moody County, South
Dakota.
   DESIGNATED OFFICIAL. Person designated by the City Council, from time to
time, to care for the removal of noxious and unhealthful vegetation.
   GARBAGE. All organic refuse from the preparation of food and decayed or
spoiled animal or vegetable food from any source.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. All vehicles must be both operational and properly
licensed. Any vehicle which is not in operating condition due to damage,
removal, or inoperability of one or more tires, wheels, the engine, or other
essential parts required for the operation of the vehicle or which does not
have lawfully affixed thereto a valid state license plate or which constitutes
an immediate health, safety, and fire or traffic hazard is considered an
INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
   LITTER. A disorderly accumulation of objects, especially carelessly
discarded trash.
   NOXIOUS AND UNHEALTHFUL VEGETATION. Weeds defined by the federal or state
government as being noxious.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty, which act
or omission either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any lake, navigable river, bay, stream, canal or
basin or any public park, square, street, or highway;
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property; and/or
      (5)   Whatever is dangerous to human health; whatever renders the ground,
the water, the air, or food hazardous or an injury to human health.
   PATIO FIRE PIT. A chiminea, patio fireplace, patio heater, fire pit brazier,
and the like.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land with, improved or unimproved, parking
areas, walkways, and sidewalks thereon.
   PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCE. A public nuisance is one which affects, at the
same time, an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons; although, the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the
individuals may be unequal. Every other nuisance is private. (SDCL § 21-10-3)
   REFUSE. Includes unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-
liquid state, consisting of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof.
   RUBBISH. Includes non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
noncombustible waste materials from residential, commercial, industrial, and
institutional establishments including yard waste and items commonly referred
to as TRASH.
   SIDEWALK. A strip of property lying in front of and between the curb line
and property line of the adjoining or abutting lot, piece, or parcel of land
within the city.
   SOLID WASTE. Refuse, rubbish, garbage, trash, and bulky refuse.
   TRASH. Includes earth, soil, wood, tree leaves, dead leaves, small branches,
clay, sand, bricks, plaster, Portland cement, chips, shavings, grass cuttings,
sticks, rocks, old papers and magazines, paper or wood cartons, rags, sawdust,
old clothing, and other combustible materials of a like nature which are not
included in the definition of garbage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5.1) (Ord. 598, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.16 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Acts under statutory authority not deemed nuisance. Nothing which is
done or maintained under the express authority of a statute can be deemed a
nuisance.
   (B)   Damages for past injury recoverable after abatement. The abatement of
a nuisance does not prejudice the right of any person to recover damages for
its past existence.
   (C)   Liability of successive owners for continuing nuisance. Every
successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance upon
or in the use of such property created by a former owner is liable, therefore,
in the same manner as the one who first created it.
   (D)   Public nuisance not legalized by lapse of time. No lapse of time can
legalize a public nuisance amounting in actual obstruction of public right.
   (E)   Remedies against public nuisances enumerated. Remedies against any
nuisances are a civil action, abatement using the procedures set forth in §
92.19 and, in cases of public nuisance only, the additional remedy of
indictment, complaint, or information as prescribed by statute and rules
relating thereto.
   (F)   Persons entitled to maintain civil action against nuisance,
injunction, and damages recoverable. The remedy by civil action against public
nuisance may be maintained by any public body, officer authorized by law or
official duty, or by any private person if it is specifically injurious to that
person. Such remedy also may be used by any person whose property is
injuriously affected or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by any nuisance,
public or private. In all such actions, the nuisance may be enjoined or ordered
abated with damages recovered in addition.
   (G)   Abatement of nuisance, notice required before abatement. A public
nuisance may be abated without civil action by any public body or officer
authorized by law. Any private person may likewise abate any public or private
nuisance which is specially injurious to that person in any manner by removing
or, if necessary, destroying the thing which constitutes the nuisance without
committing a breach of the peace or doing unnecessary injury. Where a private
nuisance results from a mere omission of the wrongdoers and cannot be abated
without entering upon someone’s land, reasonable notice must be given to that
person before entering to abate it.
   (H)   Complaints. In enforcing this subchapter, priority will be given on
the following basis:
      (1)   Proactive code enforcement by a duly-authorized employee or agent
of the city, including the Police Department;
      (2)   At the request of the City Council; and/or
      (3)   Receipt of a formal complaint filed by any resident, property
owner, or occupant.
   (I)   Need not to be construed to prevent properly-zoned business. While the
nuisance regulations apply to all zones, they should not be construed to
prevent the necessary activities of a primary line of business (as shown by
NAICS/SIC codes and sales tax receipts) of a properly-zoned business provided
the usage is reasonable in scope and duration. For example, if an auto repair
business is zoned industrial, it is understood that some of the vehicles on
that property may be inoperable for certain periods of time. Provided that the
quantity of vehicles, duration, and other accommodations are reasonable, this
should not be construed to be a violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5.2) (Ord. 598, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.17 ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES.
   Nuisances may include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Garbage and refuse. Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be
maintained or accumulated upon any public or private property any household
wastewater, sewage, garbage, tin cans, offal, or excrement; any decaying fruit,
vegetables, fish, meat, or bones; or any foul, putrid or obnoxious liquid
substance;
   (B)   Noxious and unhealthful vegetation. No property owner or tenant may
allow noxious and unhealthful vegetation to grow within the city. Cultivated
and useful grasses in pastures are not nuisances; however, it shall be a
nuisance to refuse to provide fire breaks as deemed necessary by the City
Council within seven days after notification by the Council for the necessity
therefor;
   (C)   Disturbance. No owner of any dog, cat, or other animal, licensed or
unlicensed, shall permit such animal to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood by continuous barking or making other loud or unusual noises,
destroying or defacing property, or causing injury to persons or domestic
animals;
   (D)   Undressed hides. Undressed hides kept longer than 24 hours except in
an appropriate enclosed storage facility;
   (E)   Manure. The accumulations of manure unless it is in a properly
constructed fly-proof pit, bin, or box;
   (F)   Breeding places for flies. The accumulation of manure, garbage, or
anything whatever in which flies breed;
   (G)   Stagnant water. Any excavation in which stagnant water is permitted to
collect;
   (H)   Dead animals. For the owner of a dead animal to permit it to remain
undisposed of longer than 24 hours after its death;
   (I)   Improperly handled garbage. Throwing or letting fall on or permitting
to remain on any street, alley, or public ground any manure, garbage, rubbish,
filth, fuel, or wood;
   (J)   Littering on streets. Throwing or depositing paper, ashes, rubbish, or
litter of any kind on the streets, alleys, public grounds, or private property,
without the permission of the occupant, within the corporate limits of the city
or within Flandreau City Park;
   (K)   Rodents. Accumulation of junk, old iron, automobiles or parts thereof,
or anything that may allow rodents to live, breed, or accumulate;
   (L)   Bonfires in public places. Burning or causing or permitting to be
burned anywhere within the city, any filth, manure, garbage, sweeping, leaves,
ashes, paper, rubbish, or material of any kind except that patio fire pits
shall be permitted;
   (M)   Abandoned, deteriorated, wrecked, or derelict property. Any abandoned,
deteriorated, wrecked, or derelict property such as, but not limited to,
trailers, boats, machinery, household appliances, plumbing fixtures, furniture,
and other articles in unusable condition having no value other than nominal
scrap or junk value, if any, and which has been left unprotected from the
elements and which constitutes fire, health, or safety hazard or is unsightly
shall not be permitted to be kept within the city limits;
   (N)   Unofficial sign, signal, or device. Placing, maintaining, or
displaying upon or in view of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic;
   (O)   Failure to maintain lawn. Maintaining a lawn in such a manner that
grass and/or weeds are permitted to grow more than six inches in height;
   (P)   Failure to remove snow and ice from sidewalks. The owner(s) in
possession of any property abutting any sidewalk shall keep such sidewalk free
from snow and ice and, within 72 hours after the termination of snow fall,
remove any snow or ice accumulation from the sidewalk. The owner or person in
possession of any property abutting any sidewalk that ends at an intersection
or crosswalk shall maintain the sidewalk free from snow and ice to the edge of
the street. Snow and ice deposited on the sidewalk in the street removal
process shall be removed within 48 hours of being deposited; and
   (Q)   Inoperable vehicles. Any vehicle that meets the definition of
“inoperable vehicle” shall not be kept longer than 48 hours except in an
appropriate enclosed structure or accessory structure. An authorized employee
or agent of the city may demand a vehicle suspected of being inoperable be
driven a distance of a quarter mile, approximately around one square block in
town, in the presence of an authorized employee or agent of the city to
demonstrate operability within one week of notice at a mutually acceptable
time. Failure of the owner to comply will be presumptive proof of
inoperability.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.1) (Ord. 598, passed 5-18-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 BUILDING MAINTENANCE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect, promote, and
enhance the welfare, safety, health, and property of the general public by
prohibiting the keeping or maintaining of properties at variance with and
inferior to the level of maintenance of surrounding properties.
   (B)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to buildings
and premises located in areas zoned for residential use.
   (C)   Condition. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing,
occupying, or having charge or possession of any buildings or premises in the
city to keep or maintain such building or premises in a manner which is at
variance with and inferior to the level of maintenance of surrounding
properties.
   (D)   Declared nuisance. A building or premises that is maintained or kept
in a manner which is at variance with and inferior to the level of maintenance
of surrounding properties is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance
and where there exists upon any building or premises any of the following
condition or conditions:
      (1)   Buildings that are abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed, or
partially constructed and uncompleted subsequent to the expiration of building
permit;
      (2)   Exterior surfaces including, but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks, and fences that are
not maintained in good condition; exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, which are not protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment; peeling, flaking, and
chipping paint which have not been eliminated and had surfaces repainted;
siding and masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and
the perimeter of windows, doors, and skylights that are not maintained to be
weather-resistant or watertight; and metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion which have not been coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion and
surfaces with rust or corrosion that have not been stabilized and coated to
inhibit future rust and corrosion;
      (3)   Windows, skylights, doors, and frames not kept in sound condition,
good repair, and weather-tight; glazing materials not maintained free from
cracks and holes; and windows, other than a fixed window, not easily capable of
being opened or held in position by window hardware;
      (4)   Overgrown vegetation that is unsightly and/or likely to harbor rats
or vermin;
      (5)   Dead, decayed, or diseased trees, weeds, and other vegetation;
      (6)   Trash, garbage, or refuse cans, bins, boxes, bags, or other such
containers stored in front yards visible from public streets except when placed
for pickup and, in that event, for no longer than 48 hours;
      (7)   Garbage, rubbish, solid waste, trash, or refuse as defined. Junk,
tires, and debris or salvage materials visible from a public street, alley, or
adjoining property;
      (8)   Premises having a topography, geology, or configuration which, as a
result of grading operations or improvements to the land, causes erosion,
subsidence, unstable soil conditions, or surface or subsurface drainage
problems as to pose a threat to or be injurious to adjacent premises;
      (9)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways, or walkways that are
in serious disrepair or defaced; and
      (10)   Any other like and similar condition(s).
   (E)   Act or omission. It shall be unlawful to permit, by act or omission,
the following specific acts, conditions, and things that are hereby also
declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Failing, refusing, or neglecting to keep the sidewalk in front of a
house, place of business, or premises in a clean and safe condition;
      (2)   (a)   Maintaining upon a premise any unsightly, partly complete, or
partly destroyed buildings, structures, or improvements in the city.
         (b)   This may endanger or injure neighboring properties, including
the value thereof, or threaten the public health, safety, and general welfare;
and
      (3)   Maintaining any such premises or upon the sidewalk abutting or
adjoining such lot, parcel, tract, or piece of land any WASTE MATERIALS defined
as mounds of soil, fill material, asphalt, or concrete rubble except for those
waste materials used for construction or landscaping upon premises.
      (4)   In such a case, it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee,
occupant, or persons in possession of premises wherein the waste materials
exist to maintain weed control during construction and to level or remove waste
materials after construction is completed or, in any event, within eight months
from time of placement of waste materials upon premises.
   (F)   Duty to remove waste materials. For sites where filling, grading, or
excavation activities that have or will span more than one year, it shall be
the duty of the owner, lessee, occupant or person in possession of said
premises to level or remove the waste materials from said premises at least
once each year during the months of either June, July, or August for the
purpose of maintaining weed and rodent control.
(Prior Code, § 5.3.2) (Ord. 598, passed 5-18-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   General nuisances. In addition to proceeding with a civil fine by the
Code Enforcement Officer or City Administrator and/or an action in Circuit
Court, the City Council may proceed to abate a nuisance as set forth in the
following divisions.
      (1)   Written notice. If a nuisance exists, the City Council directing
abatement shall issue a written notice of violation except as provided for in
division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Serving notice. Notice may be served by personal service, sent by
certified mail, or published one time in the official newspaper of the city.
      (3)   Appeal to Council. Within seven days after service of notice, an
appeal may be made to the City Council. The appeal shall be heard before the
City Council at its next scheduled meeting. All persons who fail to appear or
respond shall be deemed to have waived all objections.
      (4)   Response to appeal. After hearing the appeal, the City Council may
either accept the appeal or uphold the original declaration of nuisance. If the
declaration is upheld, a date for completing abatement shall be established by
the City Council and be included in their response to the appellant.
      (5)   Abatement not complete. If abatement is not completed within the
time frame established by the City Council, they shall have authority to cause
the nuisance to be abated and shall file an account of the expense thereof with
the City Finance Officer.
      (6)   Hearing. At least seven days after filing the account, the City
Council shall hold a hearing at their meeting. Notice shall be posted or mailed
to the person to whom the charges are to be assessed announcing the time of the
City Council meeting and the proposed cost to be assessed.
      (7)   Lien. The City Council shall hear the matter and, if the account is
accepted or if a fine pursuant to §
92.99 remains unpaid, the amount thereof shall become a lien on the property of
the violator and may be specially assessed against same as provided by law.
      (8)   Civil action to recover costs. The City Council shall have the
option, in lieu of special assessment, to seek a civil judgment for charges
incurred in abating the nuisance.
   (B)   Other nuisances. No criminal penalty or billing shall be imposed under
this division unless the city causes notice to be given to all owners, tenant,
or persons in possession of said property.
      (1)   Lawn maintenance notice. (See §
92.17(O).) Notice shall be given to property owners whose property within said
city on which the height of the grass and/or weeds has exceeded six inches. Any
grass or weeds that exceed said height shall be removed within 48 hours. The
notice need not be given personally but may be given generally through the
official newspaper annually. The published notice shall constitute notice as
required by division (B) above.
      (2)   Exception. Property owners with parcels of land that exceed one
acre in size may petition the City Council for relief from the requirements of
this section. The Council may approve or disapprove the petition and establish
other criteria that must be complied with. If the exception is approved,
minimum upkeep standards shall require the property, including boulevards, to
control noxious weeds and be mowed at least twice a year.
      (3)   Cleaning sidewalks notice. (See §
92.17(P).) The city shall notify all owners or persons in possession of
property abutting on sidewalks to keep such sidewalks free from snow and ice
and to remove the same within 72 hours after every fall or accumulation of snow
or ice. The notice need not be given personally but may be given generally
through the official newspaper annually. The notice shall provide that each
owner or person in possession is required to keep the sidewalk in front of the
premises free and clear from snow and ice. It shall further provide that if the
owner or person in possession fails to remove the snow or ice within 72 hours
of the falling or accumulation hereof, the city may cause said snow or ice to
be removed and charge the cost to the abutting property.
      (4)   City may remove. If the owner or person in possession of property
fails to abate the nuisance within the time specified, the city may take
remedial action to abate the nuisance and to charge the cost thereof against
the abated property. A separate charge will be incurred each time this action
is initiated.
      (5)   City’s cost assessed. The City Finance Officer shall cause an
account to be kept against each lot for the abatement and shall mail to the
owner or occupant a bill for such abatement.
   (C)   Hearing for approval of assessment. In the event that the bill is not
paid within 30 days of billing, the City Finance Officer shall prepare an
assessment against such lot or lots for lawn mowing or the removal of snow or
ice. The assessment shall be submitted to the City Council for its approval. A
notice shall be published in the official newspaper advising the property owner
of the time and place the City Council will meet for the purpose of approving
such assessment. Such notice shall be published at least one week prior to the
date set for said hearing.
   (D)   Approval of assessment. Upon the day named for the hearing at which
the assessment of costs incurred by this city under division (B) above shall be
submitted for approval, the City Council shall meet. If they find said
assessment to be reasonable and correct, the City Council shall approve the
same, with or without modification or amendments, as they may deem proper and
file such assessment with the City Finance Officer.
   (E)   Lien declared. From the date of approval and filing of the assessments
made under this section, the same shall be a special lien against the various
pieces of property described in said assessment and shall be collected in like
manner as special assessments are now collected for public improvements.
   (F)   Recovery by city. In lieu of spreading the cost of abatement as a
special assessment against property under this section, at the discretion of
the City Council, said amount may be recovered in a civil action against the
owner or occupant of said property.
   (G)   Liability of offenders. Any person whose duty it shall be to abate
these nuisances as provided in this section, in addition to the penalties
prescribed for the violation of this subchapter, shall be liable to the city
for any damage caused by the neglect.
   (H)   Penalty for failure to comply with section. Any person, whose duty it
is to abate these nuisances as provided in this section within the time
prescribed shall, for a violation thereof, be subject to the penalties that may
be imposed for a violation of this subchapter in addition to the other
penalties described in this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 5.4) (Ord. 610, passed 5-16-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is a violation of §§
92.15 through
92.19 for any person to maintain a public nuisance as defined herein. Except as
described under §
92.19(B), anyone found in violation of §§
92.15 through
92.19 by the City Code Enforcement Officer or City Administrator is subject to
a civil fine of up to $500 for every 30 days that a violation continues after
due notice has been served and subject to the due process described under §
92.19(A)(1) through (A)(4). Fines may be suspended in whole or in part, upon a
determination of good cause, by the City Code Enforcement Officer, City
Administrator, City Council, or by a judge. If a civil action is commenced with
a formal summons and complaint, any and all remedies provided by law, up to and
including attorney fees, shall be available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.2.1) (Ord. 610, passed 5-16-2022)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Cemetery Advisor
   
93.03   Rules and regulations
   
93.04   Societies
   
93.05   Unused burial spaces
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. Union Cemetery, Flandreau, Moody County, South Dakota.
   CITY. City of Flandreau, Moody County, South Dakota.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The chief administrative officer for the City of
Flandreau as established in §
31.01 of the Flandreau Municipal Ordinance.
   FINANCE OFFICER. The appointed financial officer for the City of Flandreau.
   MAYOR. The elected presiding officer of the Flandreau City Council and the
executive head of the City of Flandreau.
   STATE. State of South Dakota.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10.01) (Ord. 579, passed - -)
§ 93.02 CEMETERY ADVISOR.
   The Mayor of said city shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the
Council, a Cemetery Advisor who shall act without pay and shall be responsible
for advising the Council on the care, management, and maintenance of said
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 10.2.1)
§ 93.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be with reference to all cemetery
property owned, managed, or controlled by the city, and the same may be
embodied as conditions in the conveyance of lots in said cemetery, to
purchasers thereof, to-wit.
   (A)   All graves shall be held subject to the laws of the state relating to
cemeteries and shall not be used for any purposes other than as a place for
burial of deceased human beings.
   (B)   The general public will be allowed access to the grounds at all times
during daylight hours upon observing the rules that are or may be adopted for
the regulation of visitors.
   (C)   The Mayor, attested to by the City Administrator, shall sign all lot
conveyances.
   (D)   The cemetery is divided into parcels of land measuring 16 feet wide by
14 feet long and, henceforth, referred to as lots. Each lot consists of four
adult graves measuring four feet wide by ten feet long. On the eastern border
of each ten-feet-long adult grave is an additional space of four feet by four
feet that may be used for either a single infant burial or the interment of
cremated remains. Unless consented to by the Council, no more than one deceased
human being may be buried in an individual adult grave nor more than one infant
or cremated remains be interred in the four-feet-by-four-feet space along the
eastern border of the adult grave.
   (E)   Owners shall not allow interment to be made in their lots for
remuneration nor shall any transfer or assignment of the use of any lot or of
any interest therein be valid without the consent in writing of the City
Council.
   (F)   No sign indicating that a lot, vault, or tomb is for sale will be
permitted in or on the grounds.
   (G)   Disinterment shall be allowed provided all state laws governing
disinterment have been complied with.
   (H)   The Council reserves the right to lay out or alter the avenues or
walks or make such rules and regulations for the government of the grounds as
they may deem appropriate.
   (I)   The owner of each lot may erect any proper stones, monument, or
sepulchral structures thereon except that no vault shall be built entirely or
partially above ground without permission of the Council. All monuments and all
parts of vaults above ground shall be cut stone, granite, marble, cement or
bronze.
   (J)   All adult graves in the west addition of the cemetery shall have
headstones placed on the west border of the adult grave. Infant burials or
interred cremated remains within the four feet by four feet space abutting the
adult grave shall have headstones that are flush with the ground.
   (K)   If any monument, effigy, enclosure, structure, or inscription be
placed in or upon any lot which shall be determined by the Council to be
offensive or improper or injurious to the appearance of the surrounding lots or
grounds, it shall have the right and duty to have removed the said offensive or
improper object.
   (L)   All corner stones, if installed, must be flush with the ground.
   (M)   Lot enclosures of any kind whatever are prohibited.
   (N)   The owner of each lot may cultivate existing trees, shrubs, and plants
in the same, but no trees growing within the lot or border shall be cut down or
destroyed without the consent of the Council.
   (O)   If any trees or shrubs situated in any lot, by means of their roots or
branches, become detrimental to the adjacent lots or avenues or unsafe,
unsightly, or inconvenient for visitors, the Council shall have the right and
duty to provide for the removal of said trees and shrubs or such parts thereof
as they shall determine to be detrimental, unsafe, unsightly, or inconvenient.
   (P)   Pets, whether or not leashed or otherwise restrained, are not
permitted in the cemetery at any time.
   (Q)   Responsibility for headstone maintenance and repair shall be borne by
the decedent’s family. In the event that a headstone becomes damaged and the
decedent’s family cannot be located, the Council shall take such action as it
deems necessary to repair the damaged headstone, but each instance of headstone
damage that necessitates repair will be reviewed by the Council on a case-by-
case basis.
   (R)   No burying of any kind shall be permitted within the cemetery without
being overseen by at least one of the following: the Mayor, the City
Administrator, or the Cemetery Advisor.
(Prior Code, § 10.2.2) (Ord. 543, passed - -; Ord. 579, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.04 SOCIETIES.
   The Council and the Cemetery Advisor may, at their discretion, solicit
assistance and/or advice from the Moody County Historical Society or the Moody
County Genealogical Society concerning matters pertinent to the operation and
maintenance of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 10.2.3)
§ 93.05 UNUSED BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   In the event a party contacts the city about the purchase of a lot
that is identified as being owned, the city may review and cause to be
determined whether or not the owner has abandoned the lot.
   (B)   In making a determination of abandonment, the city will first send a
letter to the last known address if available, and if no address is available
and/or no response to the city’s letter is received, the city shall publish
public notice in its official newspaper as follows:
      (1)   The notice shall describe the coordinates of the unused lot and/or
grave;
      (2)   Set forth the name of the owner(s) listed in the cemetery records,
or if the owner is known to be deceased, then the names of such claimants as
are heirs at law, next of kin, or specific beneficiary under the will of the
owner if known shall be set forth;
      (3)   Detail the facts with respect to the failure of the owner or
survivors to keep the city informed of the owner’s address for a period of 60
consecutive years or more; and
      (4)   The notice shall run two times in a consecutive two-week period.
After 120 days from the final notice and publication, the city shall have the
right to sell such lot and/or grave.
(Prior Code, § 10.2.4) (Ord. 579, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
111.   PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   SIDEWALK CAFÉS
      
113.   CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
      
114.   RESTAURANT LIQUOR LICENSING
CHAPTER 110: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Business license requirements
   
110.03   Taxicab operator requirements
   
110.04   Taximeters
   
110.05   Appeals
TAXICABS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. One who actually engages in the driving of a taxicab.
   OPERATOR. A person engaged in operating a taxicab business.
   SEATING CAPACITY. The number of persons, not including the driver, who can
be conveniently seated in a taxicab without crowding.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle that carries up to seven passengers, does not
travel in any definite prescribed route, is operated by a driver, and carries
or accepts passengers for hire. The term TAXICAB shall not include funeral cars
or ambulances.
   TAXIMETER. An instrument or device attached to a taxicab and designed or
intended to measure mechanically the distance traveled by such taxicab, to
record the time such taxicab is in waiting, and to indicate upon such record,
by figures or designs, the fare to be charged in dollars and cents.
   WHEELCHAIR TRANSPORT. Subject to the same rules and regulations as taxicabs,
except as otherwise provided, a motor vehicle for carrying passengers using a
wheelchair and their accompanying guests:
      (1)   With a seating capacity for seven persons or less, not including
the driver;
      (2)   Not traveling any definite or prescribed route;
      (3)   Operated by driver;
      (4)   Carrying or accepting passengers using a wheelchair and their
accompanying guests for hire; and
      (5)   Shall not include funeral cars or ambulances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18.1)
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Business license required. No person shall engage in the business of
operating a taxicab or taxicabs upon the streets without a license as provided
herein. Every person desiring a license to operate a taxicab business in the
city shall make application in writing to the City Council in the general form
required for all applications for licenses and shall also give the following
additional information:
      (1)   Previous experience in such business, if the applicant has not been
licensed before; and
      (2)   Number of taxicabs to be operated.
   (B)   License fee. Initial license fees shall be $150, and renewal fees
shall be $100.
   (C)   Qualifications of applicant.
      (1)   An applicant for a license, under this section, shall be at least
18 years of age and of sound physique and free from any infirmity that would
affect his or her ability to properly drive a taxicab.
      (2)   An applicant for a license, under this subchapter, shall have been
a resident of the city or have resided within 25 miles of the corporate limits
of the city for a period not less than 30 days. The Council may, in its sound
discretion, waive the residence requirement upon satisfactory proof of good
character of the applicant.
   (D)   False statements in application for license under subchapter. Any
license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be revoked by the
chief law enforcement officer upon discovery of any false statement made in the
application for such license.
   (E)   License issuance. The City Council shall approve the issuance of a
license applied for under this subchapter if it is satisfied that the applicant
has met the following requirements:
      (1)   He or she is a fit person to engage in such business; and
      (2)   His or her vehicles and equipment are consistent with the safety of
the public.
   (F)   Unlawful use. All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be
subject to revocation at any time by the City Council; if any taxicab operated
or used by the licensee shall be used for the delivery or transportation of
intoxicating liquor or for any other unlawful purpose, upon such revocation,
the city shall retain the license fee paid.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 TAXICAB OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Driver’s license required. No person shall drive or be engaged or
employed in the business of driving, upon the public streets of the city, any
taxicab without first having procured a license therefor from the City Finance
Officer.
   (B)   Misdemeanor or felony. No person shall be licensed under this section
that has pleaded guilty or has been found guilty of the commission of a class
one misdemeanor or a felony, as defined by state law, within three years of the
date of application.
   (C)   Driver’s license applicant to be fingerprinted. The city law
enforcement department shall fingerprint each applicant for a license under
this section.
   (D)   Driver’s license fee. The fee for a driver’s license under this
section shall be as follows: initial fees shall be $50; renewal fees shall be
$25. If any taxicab driver license application is withdrawn or denied by the
law enforcement department, no portion of the fee shall be refunded.
   (E)   License plate to be attached to vehicle. Every operator of any taxicab
licensed under this subchapter shall carry in each vehicle, on the rear of it
and in a conspicuous place, a license plate showing his or her license number
as provided by the city at the time of issuing such license.
   (F)   Driver’s license to be carried on person and exhibited upon request.
Each person licensed under this section shall have such license in his or her
possession whenever he or she is engaged in driving a taxicab and shall exhibit
the same for inspection whenever he or she is requested to do so by a police
officer.
   (G)   Driver’s license expiration. Any driver’s license issued under this
subchapter shall expire on December 31 following its issuance. However, any
license applied for after October 1 of any calendar year shall remain in effect
until December 31 of the succeeding calendar year, unless sooner revoked,
cancelled, or otherwise terminated.
   (H)   Driver’s license revocation. The Council may revoke any driver’s
license issued under this subchapter for cause.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 TAXIMETERS.
   (A)   Metering device required. The owner or driver of a taxicab shall have
installed in every such taxicab a metering device approved by the Council for
the measuring of the fares established by the schedule of fares set by the
Council at its monthly meeting in January of each year. No owner or driver of a
taxicab shall operate such taxicab without first having installed such a meter.
   (B)   Exemptions. Wheelchair transports are specifically exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, Ch.18.4)
§ 110.05 APPEALS.
   Any person denied a license, upon recommendation of the chief law
enforcement officer, and feeling aggrieved thereby shall have the right to
appeal to the Council. If the Council determines the license shall be issued,
the Finance Officer shall issue a license pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18.5)
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Licensing requirements; bond
   
111.03   Records
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person is hereby declared to be a pawnbroker who:
      (1)   Loans money on deposit or pledge of personal property or other
valuable things;
      (2)   Deals in purchasing of personal property or other valuable things
on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated price; and/or
      (3)   Loans money secured by chattel mortgage on personal property and by
taking possession of the property or any part thereof so mortgaged.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; BOND.
   (A)   License. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as
a pawnbroker within the city without first obtaining a license so to do.
   (B)   Applying for license. All persons wishing to apply for a license to be
a pawnbroker within the city shall complete the application prepared for that
purpose.
   (C)   Fee. The license for a pawnbroker shall be $100 per year.
   (D)   Bond. Any pawnbroker doing business in the city shall first post a
surety bond in the amount of at least $1,000.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19.2)
§ 111.03 RECORDS.
   (A)   Records required. All pawnbrokers within the city shall keep a record
of all loans made and of all articles received by them as security, the date
received, and the serial number if the item has a serial number.
   (B)   Access to records. All records kept by pawnbrokers within the city
shall be open to inspection by city law enforcement at all reasonable times.
   (C)   Pawnbroker ticket. Each pawnbroker shall keep all pawn tickets in
triplicate. One of the copies shall be given to the city law enforcement on a
weekly basis at least.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19.3)
CHAPTER 112: SIDEWALK CAFÉS
Section
   
112.01   Authorization
   
112.02   Application
   
112.03   Design criteria
   
112.04   Furniture, music, and the like; permit holder responsible
   
112.05   Hours of operation
   
112.06   Insurance
   
112.07   Appeals, revocations, and suspensions
§ 112.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the City Council may
authorize businesses to operate sidewalk cafés upon public sidewalks as
hereinafter described, and they shall be subject to the conditions set forth
herein. A SIDEWALK CAFÉ is defined as an outdoor area located in the public
right-of-way which is operated and maintained by a coffeehouse, tea shop,
restaurant, or bar. The areas in which sidewalk cafés may be permitted within
the corporate limits of the city are those areas zoned as C1, Central
Commercial and HC, Highway Commercial.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.1) (Ord. 554, passed - -)
§ 112.02 APPLICATION.
   An application for a sidewalk café permit shall be filed with the Finance
Officer for consideration by the City Council. There shall be a one-time
application fee of $25. The application shall include a site plan which
identifies the location of tables, chairs, awnings, umbrellas, trash
receptacles, heaters, barricades, and landscapes features as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.2) (Ord. 554, passed - -)
§ 112.03 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   Sidewalk café permits shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Sidewalk cafés are permitted only on sidewalks with a minimum width of
ten feet from the property line to the curb face. The location of the sidewalk
café must be directly in front of the business operating the café and may not
extend beyond the property lines. Sidewalk cafés must maintain a clear
pedestrian path of at least five feet at all times which must remain free of
any obstruction that might hinder pedestrian passage and may not interfere with
utilities or other facilities including telephone poles, fire hydrants, fire
protection appurtenances, or signs located within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafés may not attach any element permanently to the sidewalk
or public right-of-way. Physical barriers may not exceed four feet in height.
The property owner is responsible for the restoration of the sidewalk of public
right-of-way if any damage is caused by the sidewalk café. Bolting a barrier to
the sidewalk is not considered permanent as long as the method of bolting
allows the barrier and the bolts to be readily removed.
   (C)   Umbrellas must be at least seven feet above the sidewalk when open and
must be designed to be secure during windy conditions.
   (D)   Proposed lighting for sidewalk cafés will be reviewed by the City
Council and shall not cause a glare to passing motorists or pedestrians.
Tabletop lighting may include candles and battery-operated fixtures.
   (E)   Physical barricades are required if alcoholic beverages are sold at
the sidewalk café. Such barricades shall be designed to control access to areas
where alcoholic beverages are consumed or sold to minimize the potential of
loitering by minors in such areas.
   (F)   Sidewalk cafés must maintain at least one opening for ingress and
egress at all times and shall comply with the accessibility requirements of the
city’s Building Code, found in Title XV in this code of ordinances, and the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.3) (Ord. 554, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 FURNITURE, MUSIC, AND THE LIKE; PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   All elements associated with sidewalk cafés including, but not limited
to, tables, chairs, umbrellas, temporary barricades, heaters, and awnings must
be of quality design, workmanship, and materials to ensure safety and
convenience to patrons. All such elements will be reviewed as part of the
permit process.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafés are prohibited from playing amplified music whether
live or recorded.
   (C)   Vending machines, carts, or other objects for sale are prohibited from
inclusion in a sidewalk café. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city
from authorizing vending carts of similar uses outside of sidewalk cafés.
   (D)   All services provided to sidewalk café patrons as well as all patron
activity must occur within the designated sidewalk café area. No alcoholic
beverages may be stored or mixed in the sidewalk café.
   (E)   Patrons and employees must wear proper attire including shoes and
shirts at all times.
   (F)   All areas within and surrounding a sidewalk café must be maintained in
a clean, neat, and sanitary condition.
   (G)   The permit holder is responsible for proper supervision of the
sidewalk café in order to ensure the requirements of this section are met.
   (H)   Sidewalk café permit holders shall abide by all federal, state, and
local laws.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.4) (Ord. 554, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The City Council will establish the hours of operation at the time of permit
issuance, and the hours of operation may be revised from time to time as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.7) (Ord. 554, passed - -)
§ 112.06 INSURANCE.
   Every sidewalk café permit holder shall furnish a certificate of insurance
proving commercial insurance coverage of at least $250,000 per occurrence and
$500,000 aggregate for bodily injury, death, disability, and property damage
liability. The city shall be named as an additional insured on a primary, non-
contributory basis for any liability arising directly or indirectly from the
operation of a sidewalk café. In the event that the insurance is cancelled, the
permit holder has 24 hours to reinstate coverage or the permit shall be
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.5) (Ord. 554, passed - -)
§ 112.07 APPEALS, REVOCATIONS, AND SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   Appeal. Any decision by the City Council on a sidewalk café permit is
final with no right of appeal therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.6)
   (B)   Revocation or suspension. The City Council, in its discretion, may
revoke or suspend any permit for reasons including, but not limited to, the
following: failure to maintain the standards required for the sidewalk café;
revocation or suspension of any business licenses required by the city, state,
or federal government; violation of any applicable federal, state, or local
statute, ordinance, rule or regulation; or violation of any provision of this
chapter. The penalty for permit revocation shall continue for a period of one
year from the date the revocation became effective. The penalty for a permit
suspension shall continue for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date the
suspension became effective. Once the period of revocation or suspension has
ended, the City Council may, in its discretion, require a reapplication of the
revoked or suspended permit. A notice of intent to revoke or suspend the permit
shall be given in writing by the Finance Officer ten days prior to the
revocation or suspension and shall specify the grounds therefor. A permit
holder may prevent revocation or suspension if compliance occurs during the
ten-day notice period. Any revoked or suspended permit shall be reported to the
City Council at its next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.8.8) (Ord. 554, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Hours of operation
   
113.04   Liability for violations
Licensing
   
113.15   License required
   
113.16   License application
   
113.17   Issuance of license
   
113.18   City neutrality to applicants
   
113.19   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
113.20   License expiration and renewal
   
113.21   Suspension
   
113.22   Revocation
   
113.23   Suspension and revocation process
   
113.24   Appeal
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council enacts the following licensing code in order to ensure that
cannabis establishments within the municipal boundaries of the city operate in
a manner which complies with state laws and regulations; protects the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public; prevents potential conflicts and
issues arising from ownership and employees; recognizes certain safety and
security considerations; and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or access of
cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS or MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis, whether
growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state except for drying or curing
and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of marijuana
absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber produced from the
mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant.
The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. nor any part of that
plant including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.003% on a dry
weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-20G-1
§ 113.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. any day of the week.
(Ord. 606, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation only if an
officer, director, general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
LICENSING
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate, valid, and current cannabis establishment license
issued by the city pursuant to this subchapter. A violation of this provision
is subject to the general penalty provision in §
113.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate, valid, and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
113.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city in an
area that is not zoned to permit that type of cannabis establishment. A
violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty provision in §
113.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to
any other person or entity either with or without consideration nor may a
license holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the
address designated in the application.
(Ord. 606, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-20G
§ 113.16 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $10,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the state’s
Department of Health.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in
Chapter 155 as well as any location requirements pursuant SDCL § 34-20G and the
administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-20G
§ 113.17 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under
Chapter 155;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached. The license must be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be
easily read at any time.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-20G
§ 113.18 CITY NEUTRALITY TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.19 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than three cannabis dispensaries subject to city licensure
requirements shall be licensed to operate in the city at any time.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.20 LICENSE EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.16. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $10,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the Department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.21 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any part of this
chapter;
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment; or
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.22 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
113.21 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
113.21 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
113.21;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed like, for example, a licensed cannabis
cultivation facility conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis
testing establishment license;
      (6)   A license holder, an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired; or
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-20G
§ 113.23 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail with a return receipt requested to the physical
address of the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel which
will consist of the Mayor, Finance Officer, and City Administrator.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation in which case the revocation takes effect
upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.24 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to the city. The appeal will be considered
by the City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting within one month of the
receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for chapter violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 606, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: RESTAURANT LIQUOR LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
Full-service On-sale Restaurant License Application Requirements
   
114.10   Documentation
   
114.11   Annual reports
   
114.12   License renewals
   
114.13   Only retail, on-sale service permitted
   
114.14   Smoking prohibited
   
114.15   Full-service licensing fees
   
114.16   Registry of full-service restaurant on-sale licensees
   
114.17   New restaurant license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE, WINE, MALT BEVERAGE, and DISTILLED SPIRITS. Shall mean
the same as the definitions assigned to them by SDCL § 35-1-1.
   BAR. Any permanently installed counter within the restaurant area from which
alcoholic beverages are regularly served to customers by a person who is
tending the bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
   FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT. Any restaurant at which a waiter or waitress
delivers food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons at tables,
booths, or the bar. Any restaurant that only serves fry orders or food such as
sandwiches, hamburgers, or salads is not a FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT.
   RESTAURANT. Any area in a building maintained, advertised, and held out to
the public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for consumption in such area and where not more than 40% of the gross
revenue is derived from the sale of alcohol or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
FULL-SERVICE ON-SALE RESTAURANT LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.10 DOCUMENTATION.
   An applicant for a full-service restaurant on-sale license shall provide
sufficient documentation to the city with an application form provided by the
city to demonstrate that the primary source of revenue from the operation of
the restaurant will be derived from the sale of prepared food and nonalcoholic
beverages and not from the sale of alcoholic beverages. The supporting
documentation concerning the primary source of revenue submitted pursuant to
this section is confidential.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.11 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   With the renewal application, a full-service restaurant on-sale licensee
shall submit an annual report for the preceding 12 months of operation or since
issuance of the license for the first year, whichever is less and supporting
documentation to the city on forms provided by the sales of the full-service
restaurant, which includes an oath verifying the validity of the information
provided in the report. The report shall contain the annual gross sales of the
licensee for the following two categories: (i) food and nonalcoholic beverage
sales; and (ii) alcoholic beverage sales.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.12 LICENSE RENEWALS.
   When renewing a full-service restaurant on-sale license, the city shall
condition the license renewal upon receiving documentation that not more than
40% of gross sales from the preceding 12 months of operation of the full-
service restaurant is derived from the sale of alcohol or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.13 ONLY RETAIL, ON-SALE SERVICE PERMITTED.
   A full-service restaurant on-sale licensee may only serve alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption in the bar and dining room area of the
restaurant.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.14 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   No licensee that has a full-service on-sale license may allow smoking on the
licensed premise.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.15 FULL-SERVICE LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   As required by state law, the license fee charged for a full-service
restaurant on-sale license shall be at or above the current fair market value
for such license as determined herein. However, any fair market value so
established shall be a minimum of $1 for each person residing within the city
as measured by the last preceding decennial federal census.
   (B)   The license fee shall be initially established by a resolution within
90 days of the initial adoption of this section. Subsequent changes in the
license fee shall not be made for a period of ten years from the effective date
of this chapter, unless a growth in population reported by the federal
decennial census requires an increase in the fee.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
Cross reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
34.02
§ 114.16 REGISTRY OF FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT ON-SALE LICENSEES.
   The city shall maintain a registry of each full-service on-sale restaurant
license that is being offered for sale and the city shall furnish a copy of the
registry to anyone who requests a new full-service restaurant on-sale license.
The existing full-service restaurant licensee is responsible for registering
with the municipality that the full-service restaurant on-sale license is for
sale.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
§ 114.17 NEW RESTAURANT LICENSE.
   The municipality may only issue a new license under this section if no on-
sale license is on the registry or a person desiring to purchase an on-sale
license listed on the registry provides documentation showing that the person
is unable to purchase the on-sale license at the price established above in §
114.15 and on terms satisfactory to both the potential buyer and seller. The
fair price of any on-sale license registered with the municipality under §
114.15 shall be sold at the current fair market price set by the city pursuant
to the resolution adopted in accordance with §
114.15.
(Ord. 617, passed 1-2-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses to Public Welfare and Peace
   
130.01   False emergency alarms
   
130.02   Discharging of weapons
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   Begging
   
130.05   Possession of open container
   
130.06   Crowd dispersion
   
130.07   Obstructing streets
   
130.08   Defacing and interfering with public property
   
130.09   Remaining in restricted or closed areas
Public Nudity
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Appearing nude
   
130.22   Operating public place
   
130.23   On-duty police officer
Fireworks
   
130.35   Definition
   
130.36   Sale and use
   
130.37   Authorized period of sale
   
130.38   Special exceptions
Minors
   
130.50   Loitering prohibited
   
130.51   Responsibility of parents
   
130.52   Responsibility of others
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES TO PUBLIC WELFARE AND PEACE
§ 130.01 FALSE EMERGENCY ALARMS.
   No person shall knowingly make or give any false alarm of fire or other
emergency by calling or causing to be called the Fire Department, law
enforcement officers, or any authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a public officer or
specially appointed officer in the discharge of his or her duty or at the
direction or with permission of any such officer as hereafter provided, to
discharge or fire any firearm, air rifle, slingshot, or other dangerous weapon
within the city limits or on any property owned by the city. The chief law
enforcement officer for the city may grant permission in writing to any
resident of the city to discharge or fire any gun, air rifle, slingshot, or
other dangerous weapon within the limits of or on any property owned by the
city upon showing of a necessity for doing so provided that such discharge is
upon the resident’s leased or owned property.
   (B)   There shall be two exceptions to division (A) above.
      (1)   The operation of a trap range is permitted on city-owned property
that is leased to the Moody County Sportsman Club or to its successor, if any.
      (2)   Archery hunting is permitted on city-owned land with permission of
the city or of a tenant of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.1.5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall disturb or cause to be disturbed the peace of the city
or of any person:
      (1)   By violent, threatening, or offensive behavior;
      (2)   By loud or unreasonable noise;
      (3)   By language reasonably calculated to provoke an immediate breach of
the peace;
      (4)   By assaulting, striking, or attempting to assault or strike another
person; and/or
      (5)   By inviting or defying another person to fight or by fighting.
   (B)   No person in possession and present in any premises shall disturb or
cause or allow to be disturbed the peace by loud or unreasonable noise
(Ord. 601, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 BEGGING.
   (A)   No person shall beg upon any public street or in any public place.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, BEG means solicit money or other
valuable consideration without giving valuable consideration in return.
SOLICITATION consists of communication by words, signs, or other conduct of a
desire to receive charity. Begging shall not include solicitations by a bona
fide veteran’s, religious, charitable, educational, or fraternal organization;
local civic or service club; political party or political committee; or
volunteer Fire Department. However, the proceeds therefrom should not inure to
the benefit of any individual, and the person making the solicitation must
identify prior to the solicitation the organization for which he or she is
soliciting.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to falsely identify himself or herself
as soliciting on behalf of any bona fide organization as designated in division
(B) above.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   No person shall have an unsealed package or an open receptacle
containing an alcoholic beverage, including a malt beverage, in his or her
possession in any public place within the city limits other than a duly
licensed on-sale business.
   (B)   The City Council may grant an exception to this prohibition and issue
a special permit upon written request when good and sufficient cause or reason
therefor is shown.
   (C)   The City Council shall be the sole judge of whether or not the grounds
stated in the application for special permit meet the prerequisites for issuing
such a permit and shall also determine the appropriate limitations to time and
location.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CROWD DISPERSION.
   Any police officer is authorized to disperse any crowd or group or to cause
the removal of any person violating the provisions of this subchapter. The
officer may summarily arrest any person in case of refusal to obey any
reasonable direction given by such officer for the purpose of clearing the way
or preventing annoyances to any passerby on any public street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.3)
§ 130.07 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons:
   (A)   To gather in crowds or groups or for any person to stand on any public
street or sidewalk in such a manner as to obstruct free passage thereon;
   (B)   To place an obstruction on any public street or sidewalk in such a
manner as to obstruct free passage thereon; and/or
   (C)   To annoy other persons passing along the same.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 DEFACING AND INTERFERING WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall put up, erect, hang, post, or suffer to remain so
placed any sign, poster, notice, or other advertising matter upon any city-
owned property within the city.
   (B)   No person shall paint, print, write, post, or in any manner place upon
any public sidewalk or crosswalk in the city any letters, words, figures,
signs, pictures, notices, or advertisement of any kind.
   (C)   No person shall deface, remove, change, mar, or in any way interfere
with or obliterate either wholly or in part any sign, signboard, or card
placed, posted, extended, or erected by the city.
   (D)   No person shall climb or in any manner interfere with any building,
water tower, bridge, or structure belonging to the city without being
authorized so to do by the city, and no person shall in any manner injure or
deface any such structure.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 REMAINING IN RESTRICTED OR CLOSED AREAS.
   (A)   The Mayor, Chief of Police, Chief of the Fire Department, vote of the
City Council, or any duly authorized agent of the city may restrict the use of
any road, street, alley, or property within the jurisdiction of the city,
hereafter referred to as RESTRICTED AREA, if they deem the restriction of use
or closing is necessary for the protection and safety of the public.
   (B)   Notice to the public that an area or its use is restricted shall be
given in one or more of the following forms:
      (1)   Erection of suitable barriers adjacent to or upon the restricted
area to restrict or prohibit travel;
      (2)   Issue warning and notice of the restriction or closure in generally
available media outlets;
      (3)   Post signs for direction of traffic relative to the use or non-use
of the restricted area;
      (4)   Place warning devices on or near the restricted area; and/or
      (5)   Place flaggers to warn, detour, or direct traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, cross the boundaries of,
or remain in any restricted area under this section without the expressed
permission of either the Chief of Police or the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.7) (Ord. 594, passed 2-3-2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
PUBLIC NUDITY
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the bare human male or female
genitals, anus, or pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering; the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the
areola and nipple; or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   PLACES NOT CONSIDERED PUBLIC.
      (1)   Enclosed single-sex public restrooms; enclosed single-sex
functional shower, locker, and/or dressing room facilities; enclosed motel
rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for sleeping accommodations;
doctor’s offices; and portions of hospitals and similar places in which nudity
or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home and the
sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein.
      (2)   PLACES NOT CONSIDERED PUBLIC shall also include classes where a
person appearing in a state of nudity models and such classes are operated by:
a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or a private college or
university which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college, junior college, or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation, or an accredited private college.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public or where the public is
present or likely to be present or where a person may reasonably be expected to
be observed by members of the public. A PUBLIC PLACE includes, but is not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments either for-profit or not-for-profit and either open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement, bottle clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, night clubs, country
clubs, cabarets, and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal, or similar organizations. Premises used solely as a private
residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be
a PUBLIC PLACE.
(Prior Code, § 7.5.1)
§ 130.21 APPEARING NUDE.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person in a public place to,
knowingly or intentionally, appear personally in a state of nudity.
(Prior Code, § 7.5.2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 OPERATING PUBLIC PLACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning, or
operating any public place to operate and knowingly, or with reason to know,
permit, or allow any person to appear nude in such public place.
(Prior Code, § 7.5.3)
   (B)   Operation of an establishment in violation of this subchapter shall
constitute a public nuisance, and in addition to all other remedies provided
herein, the city may, by civil process, seek permanent abatement of said
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7.5.5)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 ON-DUTY POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person or entity to
refuse admittance without fee to any on-duty police officer at any time when
patrons or customers remain in said premises.
(Prior Code, § 7.5.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREWORKS
§ 130.35 DEFINITION.
   The term FIREWORKS under this subchapter shall refer to fireworks that are
authorized by state law to be used by or sold to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 7.4.1)
§ 130.36 SALE AND USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep for sale, display, or use any fireworks
within the city except as hereinafter permitted.
(Prior Code, § 7.4.2)
   (B)   The use and sale of the following described fireworks and firecrackers
will be permitted as hereinafter set forth: sparklers, Vesuvius fountains,
spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial
shells without explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, roman
candles, rockets, star mines, color wheels, Chinese-made soft shell
firecrackers not exceeding one and five-eighths inches in length with a one-
fourth inch outside diameter, and toy cap pistols and toy caps where the caps
used therein do not contain more than 0.35 grains of explosive material in each
one.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any fireworks described
in this subchapter within the city and the Flandreau City Park except on July 4
or on December 31.
      (2)   No fireworks shall be fired on or from any public property
including all city streets, boulevards, and alleys located within the city or
Flandreau City Park.
(Prior Code, § 7.4.4)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 AUTHORIZED PERIOD OF SALE.
   (A)   The fireworks, as set out in this subchapter, shall only be sold
during the period beginning June 27 and extending through July 5 and during the
period beginning December 28 and extending through January 1.
   (B)   The sale of fireworks is not permitted after 12:00 a.m. or prior to 7:
00 a.m. from June 27 through July 5 and from December 28 through January 1.
   (C)   The sale of toy cap pistols and toy caps may be sold at any time.
(Prior Code, § 7.4.3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Application for a special exception to this subchapter for a fireworks
display at any other time may be made to the City Council, and the Council may
grant the application setting forth any conditions and restrictions as it may
deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 7.4.5)
MINORS
§ 130.50 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unless exempted under division (C) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any minor person under the age of 17 years between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time, on the days
Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of
the following day, official city time, on Friday and Saturday to:
      (1)   Loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play, or ride or be in any motor
vehicle in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places; or
      (2)   Be or remain in any dance hall, restaurant, café, theater, or other
public place.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by
his or her parents, legal guardian, or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor nor does it apply where the minor is upon an emergency
errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent or legal guardian
or other adult person having the care or custody of the minor, unless exempted
under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
is engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 7.3.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.51 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 to knowingly permit such
minor to violate §
130.50.
(Prior Code, § 7.3.2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.52 RESPONSIBILITY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating places
of amusement and entertainment, restaurants, cafés, theaters, or other public
places to permit minors to enter or remain in such places or other public
places during the hours prohibited under this subchapter. No owner or operator
of any motor vehicle shall knowingly permit or allow any minor under age 17 to
violate the provisions of §
130.50.
(Prior Code, § 7.3.3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B) Any such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If, as a result of a
knowing violation of §
130.09(C) for failure to observe a notice provided pursuant to §
130.09(C), any agency of the state or any governmental subdivision incurs any
costs for the purpose of rescuing a violator, any passengers, or any vehicle
operated by a violator, the violator is subject to a civil action by the city
for the recovery of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 and the actual cost of any
such rescue in an amount not to exceed $10,000.
(Prior Code, § 7.2.7) (Ord. 594, passed 2-3-2020)
   (C)   Any minor violating the provisions of §§
130.50 through
130.52 may:
      (1)   Be detained by law enforcement and brought before the Circuit Court
and dealt with in accordance with the Juvenile Law and Procedure; and/or
      (2)   Be fined $25 per each such violation.
(Prior Code, § 7.3.4)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Permission to move building on street
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Guarantee fund
   
150.04   Permit contents
   
150.05   Refunding guarantee fund
   
150.06   Applicant must issue notice
   
150.07   International Property Maintenance Code
§ 150.01 PERMISSION TO MOVE BUILDING ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to move any building into, along, or across
any public street, alley, or highway within the city without having obtained
permission to do so in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   Anyone desiring to move any building into, along, or across any public
street, alley, or highway within the city shall first apply in writing for
permission to do so to the office of the City Finance Officer, fully stating
the name of the applicant, the name of the owner of the building, the
description of the lot on which such building is standing, the lot to which it
is to be moved, the street along which such building is proposed to move, the
time when such removal will take place, and the size of the building. Such
application shall be accompanied with the sum of at least $100 to be deposited
with the City Finance Officer as a pledge or guarantee fund to protect the city
against loss or damage to crossings, sidewalks, or other public or private
property or as an expense for protecting such property against the injuries
that may be caused by the removal of such building; said deposit or balance
thereof, after deducting the amount of any damages or expenses caused by such
removal, shall be returned to the person depositing same upon an official
examination of the condition of the streets, sidewalks, crossings, or other
public or private property after such removal made by the Supervisor of
Streets.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.2)
§ 150.03 GUARANTEE FUND.
   Whenever the Supervisor of Streets shall decide, from any examination of the
application and from such other information as he or she may obtain, that the
sum of $100 is not sufficient as a guarantee fund for ample protection of the
city against the probable damages and expenses that may be caused by the
removal of such building, he or she is hereby authorized to require the deposit
of a larger sum than $100 but not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.3)
§ 150.04 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   On the receipt of the application and the guarantee fund as hereinbefore
provided, the Supervisor of Streets may personally or through the local law
enforcement officer investigate the representations of the applicant. If such
investigation is satisfactory, he or she shall deposit said guarantee fund with
the City Finance Officer to be held subject to the order of the Supervisor of
Streets, who shall thereupon issue to the said applicant a permit in writing
for the removal of such building along or across the streets, highways, or
alleys, and said removal is to be finished prior to the time stated in such
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.4)
§ 150.05 REFUNDING GUARANTEE FUND.
   Before refunding said guarantee fund or any part thereof, it shall be the
duty of the Supervisor of Streets to examine the report of the local law
enforcement officer and pay out of said fund, or set aside for such purposes,
the amount claimed as ascertained as the damages for injuries to the public or
private property caused or occasioned by the removal of such building including
the expenses of protection to electric, telegraph, and telephone wire.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.5)
§ 150.06 APPLICANT MUST ISSUE NOTICE.
   If the permit includes streets, alleys, or highways that are located on or
across or along strung electric light or telegraph or telephone wires, it shall
be the duty of such applicant to notify in writing the resident manager or
managing agent or officer of such public service corporation or owner of said
line or wires at least 24 hours before the commencement of such work of his or
her intent to so move such building under or across such line or wire and of
the approximate time of such crossing of line or wire by such building.
(Prior Code, § 8.7.6)
§ 150.07 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. That a certain document, one copy of which is on file in the
office of the City Finance Officer, being marked and designated as “the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition”, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the city for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the
standards for facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; proving for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this legislation.
   (B)   Deletions or additions added directly to Code book. The following
sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Chapter 4: Delete;
      (2)   Chapter 5: Delete;
      (3)   Chapter 6: Delete;
      (4)   Chapter 7: Delete;
      (5)   Chapter 8: Delete;
      (6)   Section 101.1: Insert “City of Flandreau”;
      (7)   Section 103.1: Insert “Code Enforcement Department”;
      (8)   Section 302.4: “Six (6) inches”; and
      (9)   Section 304.14: “May 1 – October 31”.
   (C)   Code to prevail. This section, being Ordinance 613, entitled “2021
International Property Maintenance Code (Property Maintenance Code)”, shall be
in effect to run concurrently with all other previous ordinances. The
International Property Maintenance Code will supersede any and all ordinances
if a direct conflict should arise.
(Ord. 613, passed 6-20-2023)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Applicability
   
151.02   Supervision of construction
   
151.03   Construction
   
151.04   Curb and gutter
   
151.05   Enforcement
   
151.06   Notice to property owners
   
151.07   Compliance
   
151.08   Letting of bids
Streets
   
151.20   Obstructions on streets
   
151.21   Material in streets; permits
   
151.22   Cleaning streets and sidewalks of rubbish
   
151.23   Excavation near streets
   
151.24   Garbage in streets
Sidewalks
   
151.35   Maintenance, construction, and repairs
   
151.36   Specifications
   
151.37   Non-conformance
   
151.38   Acceptable sidewalks
   
151.39   Unsafe sidewalks defined
   
151.40   Removal of existing sidewalks
   
151.41   Replacement of asphalt
   
151.42   Animals and vehicles on sidewalks
   
151.43   Driveways
Excavation in Public Places
   
151.55   Permit required   
   
151.56   Application and bonds
   
151.57   Deposit forfeited
   
151.58   Supervising and guarding excavations
   
151.59   Refilling excavations
   
151.60   Cutting pavements
   
151.61   Excavations near street
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 APPLICABILITY.
   All construction of sidewalks, curbs and gutters, and driveways that cross
boulevards and affect curbing shall be done only with the approval of the city.
Grades and curb lines of reinstalled curbs and gutters shall be in accordance
with adjacent installations. Installations in new subdivisions shall be in
accordance with engineering specifications approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.1)
§ 151.02 SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The building and construction of all sidewalks, driveways, and curbing
within the limits of the streets and alleys of the city shall be done under
direct supervision of the city and its duly appointed officers and agents.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.2)
§ 151.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   Before any sidewalk, driveway, or curb and gutter is constructed, altered,
or removed within the limits of the city by any owner, contractor, or person
for the owner, said contractor or person must first secure a permit therefor
from the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.1.3)
§ 151.04 CURB AND GUTTER.
   Existing grades and curb lines as currently in place are hereby adopted as
the official grades and curb lines of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 8.2)
§ 151.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   In enforcing this chapter, priority will be given on the following basis:
   (A)   A formal complaint filed with the City Finance Officer; or
   (B)   When directed to take specific action by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.1)
§ 151.06 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Upon determination that an unsafe sidewalk, non-compliant curb and gutter,
or driveway exists, the City Finance Officer shall deliver a written notice to
property owners to be served personally or by return receipt mail.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.2)
§ 151.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Property owners, after receiving written notice of an unsafe sidewalk
or non-compliant curb and gutter or driveway, will have 90 days in which to
reach compliance unless extended by the city.
   (B)   If not accomplished within the time described, the City Council, by
resolution, may cause the same to be done.
   (C)   The costs thereof shall be assessed as provided for by SDCL Chapters
9-45 and 9-46 as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 9-45 and 9-46
§ 151.08 LETTING OF BIDS
   Once the city has let bids and entered into a contract for repair as
provided for herein, thereafter the property owners do not have the option to
make repairs at their own expense but shall permit the city to proceed to do
so.
(Prior Code, § 8.5.4)
STREETS
§ 151.20 OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS.
   No person shall place, leave, or keep on any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or other public ground in this city any article, substance, or
material which may obstruct the free use of the street, road, alley, sidewalk,
or public ground except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 MATERIAL IN STREETS; PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to grant temporary permission in
writing to any person to deposit and keep lumber, stone, brick, or other
materials for building on any public sidewalk, street, road, or alley adjacent
to the building to be erected or repaired.
   (B)   Such permission shall not excuse the obstruction or occupancy with
such materials of more than one-third of the width of any main traveled portion
of any street or road.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.2)
§ 151.22 CLEANING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   (1)   Every person granted permission, as provided in §
151.21 above, to place and keep building material in the street, road, or alley
shall cause all such material and the rubbish resulting therefrom to be removed
from such sidewalk, street, road, or alley at the expiration of the permit.
      (2)   The City Council may extend the time at its discretion.
   (B)   Any person keeping any building material on such sidewalk or in such
street, road, or alley under a permit from the City Council shall keep one or
more lighted lanterns or flares so placed that such material may be easily seen
by persons passing along such sidewalk, street, road, or alley at night.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.3)
§ 151.23 EXCAVATION NEAR STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or occupant of any lot or parcel
of land within the city to make or cause to be made any excavation on said lot
or parcel of land except the same be securely guarded so as to prevent the
injury or any person(s) or animals passing upon or along said sidewalks,
street, alleys, or public grounds or traveled path or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.24 GARBAGE IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or
deposit any ashes, offal dirt, garbage, decaying vegetables, fish, meat,
manure, filthy water, slops, or any other offensive or putrid matter or thing
into or upon any street, avenue, lane, alley, or public ground within the
corporate limits of the city or into any stream of water within the limits of
said city or forming the boundaries thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.35 MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION, AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   Responsibility for maintenance. Owners of lots fronting or abutting
sidewalks within the city shall be liable for maintenance of the sidewalk in
the form of sweeping, snow removal, ice removal, and removal of any and all
obstructions and implements that may result in injury to the public. At no time
shall the city be liable for those injuries arising out of the duties owed to
the public by the owners of lots adjoining such sidewalk, particularly all
trips and falls occurring upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Notice of construction or repair. As authorized by SDCL § 9-46-2.1, if
the City Council deems it necessary to construct, rebuild, or repair any
sidewalk, it shall notify all owners of lots fronting or abutting such sidewalk
to construct, rebuild, or repair the sidewalk at their own expense within a
time designated by the Council.
   (C)   City may construct, rebuild, or repair sidewalk. If the owner of the
lots fronting or abutting the sidewalk to be constructed, rebuilt, or repaired
fails to comply within the time specified by the City Council, the Council may,
by resolution, cause the work to be done with the costs assessed against the
lots fronting or abutting upon the sidewalk that was constructed, rebuilt, or
repaired.
   (D)   Appeal. Prior to applying the assessment upon the lots fronting or
abutting the constructed, rebuilt, or repaired sidewalk, the Council shall
establish a time and place for a public hearing on the same, and all lot owners
impacted by the proposed assessment shall be afforded an opportunity to appeal
the application of the assessment at the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.1) (Ord. 562, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-3
§ 151.36 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following specifications shall be applied to all sidewalks constructed
within the city.
   (A)   Material to be used in construction of all sidewalks shall be Portland
cement concrete and shall be four inches thick, or five and one-half bag mix.
   (B)   The base will be a minimum of two inches of compacted gravel.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall have a one-fourth inch per foot of width slope toward
the street so water will not stand.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall have expansion joints at a minimum of 50-foot
intervals.
   (E)   The width of all sidewalks shall be not less than four feet or more
than eight feet and shall conform to the width, grade, and curb lines of the
adjoining sidewalks provided that the existing sidewalks are at least four feet
wide. Any sidewalk not the same grade as adjoining property will be sloped in
such a manner as not to cause a hazard to traffic.
   (F)   The corners of all sidewalks at intersections shall be constructed or
reconstructed in such a manner so as to make the sidewalks accessible to the
disabled. Application may be made to the City Council through the City Finance
Officer for a grant not exceeding $5 per square foot for the cost of
construction or reconstructing such corners from the sidewalk to the curb. The
application must include actual costs or written cost estimates of construction
for making such changes and only such costs as are directly related to making
the changes necessary to make the sidewalks accessible for the disabled will be
considered for reimbursement.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.2) (Ord. 571, passed - -)
§ 151.37 NON-CONFORMANCE.
   Any proposed sidewalk not conforming to the specifications in this
subchapter must be approved by the City Council prior to construction.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.4)
§ 151.38 ACCEPTABLE SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint an official to inspect sidewalks. The
intent of this subchapter is to provide safe passable sidewalks for the
citizens of Flandreau.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the appointed official to inspect
all sidewalks in the city limits and determine which sidewalks are unsafe and
need to be repaired or replaced. The appointed official will report its
findings to the City Finance Officer so that proper notification can be made to
property owners. Whenever possible, the appointed official will make sidewalk
inspections during the spring of the year. It shall be unlawful for any person
to prevent, delay, or interfere with the appointed official while engaging in
sidewalk inspections.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.39 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS DEFINED.
   UNSAFE SIDEWALKS are any sidewalks on which a person may trip or fall due to
excessive cracks or excessive unevenness or sidewalks that have cracked or
settled more than three-fourths inch.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.6)
§ 151.40 REMOVAL OF EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Anyone desiring to remove a sidewalk and not replace it shall first
make application for permission to do so through the City Finance Officer. Said
application will be considered by the City Council at its next meeting
following filing of the application. Upon reviewing an application, the City
Council shall address, and be bound to, the following considerations.
      (1)   The city shall strongly encourage all businesses and home owners to
install and/or properly maintain sidewalks in accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   In the event that 50% or more of the applicant’s block has
sidewalks in place, the application for removal of the sidewalk shall be
denied.
   (B)   In the event that 50% or less of the applicant’s block has sidewalks
in place, the City Council may take into account the amount of foot traffic
upon the applicant’s sidewalk, the amount of vehicle traffic in front of the
applicant’s property, and whether or not adjacent landowners oppose the removal
of the sidewalk when deciding whether to approve the application. If satisfied
that the application is not opposed by adjacent landowners and that the safety
of pedestrians will not be endangered by vehicular traffic, the City Council
may approve the application.
(Prior Code, 8.3.7) (Ord. 565, passed - -)
§ 151.41 REPLACEMENT OF ASPHALT.
   Replacement of asphalt, or blacktop, at intersections where ramps for the
disabled are installed will be the responsibility of the city. Blacktop that is
removed for the installation of private drives will be the responsibility of
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 8.3.3)
§ 151.42 ANIMALS AND VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride, drive, or lead any animal upon any public sidewalk in
the city other than dogs, cats, or other pets on a leash or drive or operate or
cause to be driven or operated any vehicle including bicycles and skateboards
upon any sidewalk in the C1, Central Business District in said city except that
the same may be driven across any sidewalk in entering or leaving the premises
of any person if there shall be constructed a driveway across said sidewalk at
said premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.6.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.43 DRIVEWAYS.
   When property owners desire to install a driveway that will cross the public
right-of-way, inspection and approval by the Superintendent of Utilities and
Public Works is required. With the approval of the Superintendent, a permit may
be issued.
(Prior Code, § 8.4.1)
EXCAVATION IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 151.55 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation in or under any
street, parking lot, sidewalk, alley, or public ground or remove any earth,
soil, paving, gravel, or material therefrom without having first obtained a
permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.56 APPLICATION AND BONDS.
   Application for such permit shall be made to the City Finance Officer who
shall secure the approval of the Supervisor of Streets before issuing any such
permit. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $5, which amount
shall be considered compensation to the city for the granting of such permit
and the necessary investigation prior thereto. In addition to the hereinbefore
described fee, the applicant shall deposit with the City Finance Officer not
less that $25 or such larger sum as deemed necessary by the Supervisor of
Streets to insure the replacement and refilling of any such excavation. In lieu
of such deposit, a bond for the same purpose in the amount of $500, to be
approved by the City Council, may be given covering all excavations for the
year for which such bond is given. Before any such permit is issued, the person
requiring the same shall state in his or her application therefor where such
excavation is to be made, the extent therefor, in front of what lot or lots,
for what purpose said excavation is to be made, and whether or not such person
has a bond on file with the City Finance Officer for making such excavation. If
such applicant has not filed such bond, then before a permit shall be issued,
such applicant shall furnish a bond or make the deposit as above provided with
the City Finance Officer as a guarantee for the proper refilling of and
guarding of such trenches and excavations while in the course of excavating or
refilling and the maintenance of the same in good condition for one year
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.2)
§ 151.57 DEPOSIT FORFEITED.
   (A)   If at an time within one year after this issuance of the permit
referred to in §
151.55 the Supervisor of Streets shall find that the work for which the bond
deposit was made does not stand a satisfactory test or has not been properly
refilled, he or she shall notify the depositor in writing that the work must be
put in satisfactory condition within three days, and if the depositor fails to
comply with the terms of said notice, then the Supervisor of Streets shall have
authority to cause expense thereof to the sum deposited. The City Finance
Officer shall, upon order of the City Council, return the balance unexpended at
the expiration of one year from date of such permit to the depositor.
   (B)   In cases where a deposit is put up for all work done by any person as
provided in §
151.56 above, the Supervisor of Streets shall have power to cause the repairing
or refilling of any excavations made by such person if he or she fails to do so
upon three days’ written notice, and the expense thereof shall be charged to
his or her deposit to the original amount.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.3)
§ 151.58 SUPERVISING AND GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   The Supervisor of Streets shall supervise all excavations made for any
purpose in the streets, alleys, or public grounds, and he or she shall require
that all excavations be backfilled in the manner specified.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.4)
   (B)   Any person receiving a permit to make excavations in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground shall, during the progress and
continuance of the work, erect and maintain around the site, both day and
night, suitable guards, fences, flares, and signals so as to prevent injury to
persons, animals, or vehicles on account of such excavations. Such flares shall
be kept lighted from sundown to sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.5)
§ 151.59 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person making such excavation shall, when the same shall be completed,
promptly and without delay refill the same as herein provided.
   (A)   In refilling any excavation, the earth shall be thoroughly settled as
the refilling progresses by using water to compact earth, or the earth shall be
thoroughly tamped in successive layers of approximately six inches in such a
manner that all the earth shall be replaced in the excavation leaving the
surface in its original condition.
   (B)   In making connection to fire hydrants for flushing excavations, all
rules and regulations of the Water Department relating thereto shall be
observed.
   (C)   In all cases where excavations are made in the paved district, the
earth shall be replaced in the manner above specified, and the Department of
Streets shall replace the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.6)
§ 151.60 CUTTING PAVEMENTS.
   Where it is necessary to cut the street pavement in making any street
excavation, there shall be an amount equal to the estimated cost to the city
for the replacement of the pavement removed deposited with the City Finance
Officer before a permit is issued. The actual cost shall be determined after
the pavement is replaced, and any surplus shall be refunded, and any costs not
covered by the deposit shall be paid immediately. The cost to the city for
pavement removal and replacement shall be determined from time to time and a
schedule thereof maintained at the city office.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.7)
§ 151.61 EXCAVATIONS NEAR STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or occupant of any lot to make
or cause to be made any excavation on said lot adjacent to any street, alley,
public ground, or traveled road or roadway except the same be securely guarded
so as to prevent the injury of any person or animal passing upon or along the
same.
(Prior Code, § 8.8.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Intent
Planting and Removal
   
152.15   Responsibility
   
152.16   Desirable tree species
   
152.17   Spacing and location
   
152.18   Tree care
   
152.19   Tree removal
   
152.20   Abatement
   
152.21   Interference with city
   
152.22   Appeal
Shade Tree Disease
   
152.35   Declaration of policy
   
152.36   Shade Tree Disease Program
   
152.37   Nuisances declared
   
152.38   Street Superintendent
   
152.39   Inspection and investigation
   
152.40   Abatement of shade tree disease nuisances
   
152.41   Action by city
   
152.42   Duties of the public
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. All land lying between the sidewalk line and the curb line of
streets, avenues, or rights-of-way within the city. In the absence of a
sidewalk and curb line, the BOULEVARD shall consist of all land between the
street line and the border of the right-of-way.
   CITY. The elected and/or designated official, authorized agent, or employees
of the City of Flandreau lying within Moody County, South Dakota, assigned to
carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
   LARGE TREES. Trees larger than 40 feet tall at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees between 20 and 40 feet tall at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PARKS. Public parks having individual names.
   PESTS. An insect or disease agent that attacks a tree or woody vegetation.
   PLANTS. All non-woody vegetation now or hereafter growing on any public or
private property.
   PRIVATE TREES. All trees and other woody vegetation on private lots and
residences within the city.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as shown by the records on
file at the Flandreau City Office or the Moody County Register of Deeds.
   SMALL TREES. Trees less than 20 feet tall at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
boulevards.
   TREE REMOVAL. The removal of all branches, vegetation, and trunk from small,
medium, and large trees but not including the grinding or removal of tree
stumps, the restoration of soil elevation, or repairs to sidewalks.
   TREE STUMP. The portion of the tree from 18 inches above the soil down to
the root system of the tree.
   TREES AND SHRUBS. All woody vegetation now or hereafter growing on any
public or private property.
(Prior Code. Ch. 14.1) (Ord. 538, passed - -)
§ 152.02 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect and preserve the trees, plants, and
shrubs within the city thereby enhancing the aesthetic and property value,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens. Herein, the responsibilities of
the property owner, the city, and the administrators are defined.
(Prior Code, Ch. 14.2)
PLANTING AND REMOVAL
§ 152.15 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city is herein responsible for tree planting in all city parks and in
Union Cemetery as well as establishing control of street tree planting on
boulevards. Private planting of trees is not subject to city control, but the
city should encourage desirable species and planting practices.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.1)
§ 152.16 DESIRABLE TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   The city will issue a desirable species list for tree planting in the
city. The list will contain a minimum of ten species in order to provide a
diversity of tree types.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.2)
   (B)   The following list breaks down desirable tree species by size and
location:
      (1)   Street.
         (a)   Small trees. Flowering Crabapple, Canada Red Cherry,
Serviceberry, and Showy Mountain Ash; and
         (b)   Medium trees. Ohio Buckeye, European Mountain Ash, Littleleaf
Linden, and Greenspire.
      (2)   Parks and other areas.
         (a)   Small trees. Hawthorn, Russian Olive, Apricot, Apple, Plum, and
Pear;
         (b)   Medium trees. Amur Cork Trees, May Day Tree, Black Cherry, and
Horse Chestnut; and
         (c)   Large trees. Northern Catalpa, Black Walnut, Kentucky Coffee
Tree, European Larch, Ponderosa Pine, Blue Spruce, Black Hill Spruce, Scotch
Pine, and Austrian Pine.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.13)
§ 152.17 SPACING AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Spacing. Except in special planting designed or approved by the city,
no street trees may be planted closer together than 20 feet for small trees and
35 feet for medium trees.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.3)
   (B)   Distance from curb to sidewalks. No trees shall be planted where the
distance between the curb and sidewalk is less than four feet. No trees may be
planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than two feet for small trees and three
feet for medium trees.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.4)
   (C)   Distance from street corners and fire plugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 20 feet of any property corner adjacent to an intersection.
No street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.5)
   (D)   Utilities. Except small trees, no street trees may be planted under or
within ten feet of overhead utility wires. No trees shall be planted over or
within five feet of any underground water, sewer, or other service line.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.6)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city will herein be responsible for the maintenance, trimming, and
care of all park and street trees.
   (B)   The landowner will be responsible for the maintenance, trimming, and
care of all private trees situated upon his or her property, but said
maintenance, trimming, and care shall be subject to city requirements regarding
pest control or trimming when such actions are necessary to prevent hazards to
life and property.
   (C)   Overhanging branches shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
tree and must abide by the following regulations.
      (1)   Every owner of a tree which overhangs any sidewalk within the city
shall trim such tree to a minimum of ten feet above the surface of the
sidewalk.
      (2)   Every owner of a tree which overhangs any municipal arterial street
or right-of-way within the city shall trim such tree to a minimum of 12 feet
above the surface of the street or right-of-way.
      (3)   Every owner of a tree which overhangs any county road or portion of
the state trunk highway within the city shall trim such tree to a minimum of 16
feet above the surface of the county road or state highway.
   (D)   The only accepted method of tree trimming within the city shall be the
drop crotch method. Topping or dehorning is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.7) (Ord. 538, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Tree removal will be the responsibility of the city for park and
street trees. The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased private trees on private property within the city. The landowner will
be responsible for removing private trees that constitute a hazard to life and
property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other nearby trees. The city will notify, in writing or in person, the owners
of such trees.
   (B)   Dead trees shall be removed. Trees will also be removed if they cannot
be returned to an acceptable condition after treatment for disease or
sustaining storm damage as determined by the city or any of its authorized
agents. Trees harboring contagious pests for which there is not established
control shall also be removed.
   (C)   The city or authority acting will make determination of a pest
problem. If the pest cannot be determined at the site with reasonable certainty
by the city or other authority, sample will be taken for diagnosis to determine
the pest.
   (D)   Confirmed arrangements for removal shall be made within 30 days from
date of notification for trees found to be harboring a contagious disease and
30 days for a dead or substantially dead tree from the time declaring the tree
a hazard or dead.
   (E)   Wood from dead, substantially dead, or infected trees may be used as
firewood as long as that wood does not harbor a contagious pest or can be
treated to prevent harboring contagious pests.
   (F)   Private landowners may request the city’s removal of a living and
healthy street tree from the boulevard immediately neighboring the landowner’s
property, but such removal is subject to the city’s permission and all costs
associated with the removal will be at the landowner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.8) (Ord. 538, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The failure of owners to comply with planting, minimum spacing
distances, utilities, trimming, and tree removal provisions of this subchapter
shall constitute a nuisance, and the city shall have the authority to abate the
nuisance which may include removal of it.
   (B)   The city shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under
this subchapter and shall report monthly to the Finance Officer all work done
for which billings and assessments are to be made. The report shall state and
certify the description of the land, lots, and parcels involved and the amount
chargeable to each.
   (C)   The payment of monies to the city for the abatement of nuisances from
private property shall be handled in accordance with the provisions contained
in §
92.19.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.9)
§ 152.21 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
city while engaging in the inspection or removal of any street trees, parks
trees, or private trees as authorized in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.10) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 APPEAL.
   Any individual who receives an order or is denied permission to plant, care
for, or remove a tree shall have the right to appeal within seven days to the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.11)
SHADE TREE DISEASE
§ 152.35 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The governing body of the city recognizes that loss of established
public and private trees through contagious diseases would substantially
depreciate the value of property within the city and impair the safety, good
order, general welfare, and convenience of the public.
   (B)   It is declared to be the intention of the governing body to control
and prevent the spread of all contagious diseases, and this subchapter is
enacted for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.1)
§ 152.36 SHADE TREE DISEASE PROGRAM.
   It is the intention of the governing body of the city to conduct a program
of plant pest control pursuant to the authority granted by SDCL Chapters 38-24B
and 38-24A. This program is directed specifically at the control and
elimination of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles but may be applied
to other contagious diseases that threaten public and privates trees within the
city and Flandreau City Park.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDLC Ch. 38-24, 38-24A, and 41-21
§ 152.37 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following are considered public nuisances whenever they may be found
within this municipality:
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau;
   (B)   Any elm tree or part thereof suffering from dieback or any other
disease or harmful condition which, in the opinion of the City Coordinator or
his or her agents, renders that tree or any parts thereof possible breeding or
harboring sites of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylurgipinus Rufipes (Marsh);
   (C)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed,
referred to as HAZARDOUS WOOD; and
   (D)   Any other tree suffering from any contagious diseases that poses a
threat to other established trees.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.3)
§ 152.38 STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   It is the duty of the Street Superintendent to coordinate, under the
direction and control of the governing body, all activities of the municipality
relating to the control and prevention of shade tree diseases. He or she shall
recommend to the governing body the details of the program for the control of
Dutch elm disease and perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.4)
§ 152.39 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent shall inspect all premises and places within
the corporate limits of this municipality as often as practicable, but at least
annually, to determine whether any condition described herein under §
152.37 exist thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation of Dutch elm fungus and elm bark beetles or other contagious
diseases.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent or duly authorized agents may enter upon
private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of
the duties assigned under this subchapter.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent shall, upon finding conditions indicating
Dutch elm infestation or other contagious diseases, immediately send
appropriate specimens or samples to the Department of Agriculture or SDSU at
Brookings for analysis or take such other steps for diagnosis as may be
recommended by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.5)
§ 152.40 ABATEMENT OF SHADE TREE DISEASE NUISANCES.
   (A)   In abating contagious shade tree disease nuisances, the Street
Superintendent shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed,
burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent, as fully
as possible, the spread of contagious shade tree diseases. Such abatement
procedures shall be carried out in accordance with current technical and expert
opinions and plans as may be designed by the governing body.
   (B)   Whenever the Street Superintendent finds, with reasonable certainty,
that a contagious disease infestation exists in any tree or wood in any public
or private place in this municipality, the procedures shall be as set forth in
divisions (B)(1) through (B)(6) below.
      (1)   If any tree, or any parts thereof, determined to be a nuisance is
discovered on public or private property within the municipal limits of the
city, it shall be condemned, removed, and disposed of or rendered incapable of
spreading the disease. This shall hereby be termed PROPER DISPOSAL.
      (2)   Owners of property where a tree or part thereof infected with shade
tree disease has been located on said owner’s private property shall be given
no more than seven days for proper disposal from the date of notification.
Notification shall be given in the form of a written notice to be presented
personally or by mail by the Street Superintendent.
      (3)   Failure to abate the nuisance or properly dispose of the infected
trees or portions thereof by a property owner within the time limit stated
shall authorize the Street Superintendent to have the nuisance abated. The
Street Superintendent may then charge all costs of the abatement to the
property owner and bill him or her directly or have the monies due assessed to
his or her taxes.
      (4)   The Street Superintendent shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section and shall report monthly to the Finance
Officer all work done for which billings and assessments are to be made stating
and certifying the description of the land, lots, and parcels involved and the
amount chargeable to each.
      (5)   The payment of monies to the city for the abatement of nuisances
from private property shall be handled in accordance with the provisions
contained in §
92.19.
      (6)   The city also has the option of collecting the assessment through
Small Claims Court.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.6)
§ 152.41 ACTION BY CITY.
   (A)   The governing body recognizes the problem of the spread of shade tree
disease from infected trees to adjacent, healthy trees through root systems and
common natural connections and intends, to the best of its ability, to control
and prevent this means of spread of the disease.
   (B)   If any damage or distortion to the property is caused when placing
barriers to control the spread of the disease, the city shall be responsible
for the reasonable restoration of the property to the condition that existed
before the placement of the barrier.
   (C)   The governing body, recognizing the potential of therapeutic pruning
or the amputation of infected branches as a possible tool in the control of
shade tree disease, authorizes the Street Superintendent to enter upon private
property and carry out this procedure on private trees for the protection of
public trees.
   (D)   The governing body, recognizing the value of chemically treating trees
either with approved fungicides or insecticides as a possible tool in the
management of shade tree disease and recognizing that the treatment of a
private tree may help to protect other private and public trees, authorizes the
Street Superintendent to enter upon private property and chemically treat the
private tree.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.7)
§ 152.42 DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC.
   Elm wood must be covered with plastic from April 1 until the first snowfall
to prevent the spread of disease by beetles. Woodpiles should be small enough
to cover with one piece of plastic with an excess of 12 to 18 inches of plastic
around the bottom of the pile which has been securely sealed with dirt, sand,
rock, or bricks. All bark should be stripped from the wood. It is unlawful for
any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the Street Superintendent or
his or her agents while they are engaged in the performance of duties imposed
by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.4.8) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
152.15 through
152.22 of shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not
to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 14.3.12)
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Purpose and description
   
153.03   Administration
   
153.04   Airport Manager and Board
   
153.05   Funding
   
153.06   Liability
   
153.07   Operations and responsibilities
Flight Training
   
153.20   Purpose
   
153.21   Building, personnel, and aircraft requirements
   
153.22   Hours of operation
   
153.23   Insurance
   
153.24   Exception
   
153.25   City discretion
Aerial Application
   
153.40   Purpose
   
153.41   Permit and fee
   
153.42   Revocation
   
153.43   Insurance
   
153.44   Facilities
   
153.45   Chemical handling
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Airport Board appointed by the Mayor of the City of Flandreau,
with the consent of the Flandreau City Council.
   CITY. The City of Flandreau, Moody County, South Dakota.
   COUNCIL. The City Council for the City of Flandreau.
   DEPARTMENT. Utilities and Public Works Department, City of Flandreau.
   MANAGER. The Airport Manager.
   TENANT. Any customer leasing or renting hangar space from the City of
Flandreau or any customer who has built a hangar or hangars on Flandreau
Municipal Airport property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15.1)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidelines for the
operation, maintenance, and general upkeep of the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
(Prior Code, § 15.2.1)
   (B)   Description. The municipal airport is located on 153.78 acres,
described as Section 09, Township 106, Range 48, northeast one-quarter,
excluding Lot H-l and Tract 2 Henry Addition but including Tract 1 Henry
Addition north one-half and Lot A, northeast one-quarter.
(Prior Code, § 15.2.2)
§ 153.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   To the extent that any provision in this chapter is in conflict with any
other existing provision of the city ordinances, the provisions contained
herein shall replace such prior provisions. Any prior provisions which deal
with the same subject matter but are not in direct conflict with provisions of
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15.4)
§ 153.04 AIRPORT MANAGER AND BOARD.
   (A)   Airport Manager. The Superintendent of Utilities and Public Works or
other official appointed by the City Council shall serve as the Airport
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 15.2.3)
   (B) Airport Board.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a
three-member board.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed for a three-year term.
      (3)   There shall be no residency requirement. Appointments shall be made
on a merit basis.
(Prior Code, § 15.2.5)
§ 153.05 FUNDING.
   (A)   The operation of the Flandreau Municipal Airport shall be funded
principally through revenues from payments derived from lease of airport land,
hangar rentals, and from other services that may be provided from time to time.
   (B)   Supplement funding may be authorized from time to time at the
discretion of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.2.4)
§ 153.06 LIABILITY.
   Airport tenants shall be obligated to carry liability insurance for at least
$100,000 for any personal injury or property damage for which the tenant might
become liable due to possession, building, operating, and maintenance of the
aircraft hangar. Proof of compliance with this provision shall be filed at all
times during the term of this lease, or any extension thereof, with the Finance
Officer of the city by the tenant filing a certificate of insurance certifying
that said insurance is in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, 15.2.6)
§ 153.07 OPERATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   City Council. The Council shall have general management and oversight
of the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
   (B)   Airport Manager. The Manager shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the Flandreau Municipal Airport under the general management and
oversight of the Council. In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the
incumbent to ensure that this chapter is kept current, accurately depicting the
day-to-day operation of the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
   (C)   Utilities and Public Works Department. The Department shall provide
services such as snow removal, mowing, spraying, runway light maintenance, and
other maintenance and repair of airport property and equipment on a
reimbursable basis.
   (D)   Airport Board. The Board shall meet as necessary to develop
recommendations and suggestions for the improvement of the Flandreau Municipal
Airport. Said recommendations and suggestions shall be submitted to the Council
for appropriate action.
   (E)   Tenants; hangar owners.
      (1) Tenants may lease from the city ground upon which the tenant’s hangar
exists for such term and fees as specified in the executed lease.
      (2)   Fees shall be payable in advance on or before the anniversary date
of the lease agreement.
      (3)   Tenants may not alter the terms and specifications of the building
as approved by the Council in any respect without the express written consent
of the Council. The tenant may not alter or remodel the hangar at a later time
or move the building without the written consent of the Council.
      (4)   (a)   The hangar will remain the property of the tenant and all
obligations to ensure said property shall be that of the tenant, but under no
circumstances may the tenant ever remove the building from the land on which it
is constructed without the express written permission of the city.
         (b)   This lease shall be assignable by the tenant so as to give
effect to the sale by the tenant of the aircraft hangar.
         (c)   It is understood that the hangar shall remain on the lot on
which it was constructed and cannot, in any event, be removed by an assignee
without the written permission of the city.
      (5)   Tenants shall be obligated to keep the hangar and all of the land
situated within the hangar lot being leased in a clean and orderly condition
and in a good state of repair. Any breach of this provision shall allow the
city to cancel this agreement as provided.
      (6)   The tenant may not, under any circumstances, store gasoline or any
other inflammable liquid within the hangar or premises being leased herein
other than what gasoline may be incidentally stored within the operating tanks
of an aircraft situated in said hangar. The tenant shall not store any other
substance or material in the hangar that would create a fire hazard not usual
to aircraft hangars.
      (7)   The city shall be harmless from any and all liability arising out
of the tenant’s possession, building, maintenance, and operation of the
aircraft hangar.
      (8)   Tenants may be required by the city to move his or her aircraft
hangar at the tenant’s own expense to another location, provided for privately
owned hangars, if substantial change is made by the city so as to necessitate a
change in location of the aircraft hangars.
      (9)   It shall be understood that the purpose of this lease is to allow
the tenant to maintain his or her own aircraft, and under no circumstances may
the tenant conduct any business from the premises being leased herein or the
aircraft hangar.
      (10)   It shall be understood that upon termination of the lease
agreement, both by the expiration of the terms or any renewal thereof, the
aircraft hangar shall become the sole and complete property of the city and the
tenant shall have no further interest in the same.
   (F)   Tenants; city hangar.
      (1)   Tenants of the city hanger may lease hangar space for such term and
fees as specified in the executed lease.
      (2)   Payments shall be made in advance of the commencement of the lease
agreement and in advance on or before the same day of each month thereafter.
      (3)   Tenants may not sublet said hangar space without prior permission
of the city.
      (4)   Tenants shall be obligated to keep the space that is leased clear
of garbage, refuse, and hazardous materials. The tenant may not store gasoline
or other flammable liquids on the premises being leased other than that which
may be incidentally stored within the operating tanks of an aircraft occupying
the leased space.
      (5)   Tenants will be responsible for maintaining insurance on its
property and the city will not be responsible for damage that may occur to it
while located on or in the process of entering or exiting the leased premises.
      (6)   Electricity provided by the city will not be charged, but the
tenant understands that the city will not provide heat to the building.
      (7)   The tenant agrees to hold the city harmless from any and all
liability arising out of the tenant’s occupation of the leased premises and the
tenant’s maintenance and operation of the aircraft.
(Prior Code, Ch.15.3)
FLIGHT TRAINING
§ 153.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a set of guidelines for the
operation of a pilot flight training program at the Flandreau Municipal
Airport.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.1) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.21 BUILDING, PERSONNEL, AND AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or other business entity desiring to engage
in pilot flight training at the Flandreau Municipal Airport shall, as a
minimum, provide the following.
   (A)   Building. The person, firm, corporation, or other business entity
desiring to engage in pilot flight training at the Flandreau Municipal Airport
shall lease or construct a building at the Flandreau Municipal Airport which
will provide at least 400 square feet of properly lighted and heated space for
an office, a briefing room, and restrooms. The building shall comply with all
local building codes and OSHA regulations.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.1)
   (B)   Personnel. The person, firm, corporation, or other business entity
desiring to engage in pilot flight training at the Flandreau Municipal Airport
shall employ personnel that are properly certified by the Federal Aviation
Administration, FAA, as flight instructors in order to cover the type of
training offered.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.2)
   (C)   Aircraft. All aircraft used in pilot flight training at the Flandreau
Municipal Airport must be airworthy, properly licensed, and insured for flight
instruction.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.3)
(Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.22 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Normal operational hours for training will be at the trainer’s discretion,
but the Flandreau Municipal Airport should remain reasonably available to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.4) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.23 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The person, firm, corporation, or other business entity desiring to
engage in pilot training at the Flandreau Municipal Airport shall obtain the
following insurance covering aircraft liability, public liability, and property
damage at the following minimum levels of coverage:
      (1)   Bodily injury: $100,000 for each person; $1,000,000 for each
occurrence;
      (2)   Property damage: $1,000,000 for each occurrence;
      (3)   Passenger liability: $100,000 for each person; $1,000,000 for each
occurrence; and
      (4)   Medical: $5,000 for each person.
   (B)   Deviation below these minimums will require prior approval from the
city and the Airport Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.5) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.24 EXCEPTION.
   A person shall be permitted to give flight training at the Flandreau
Municipal Airport without the requirement of maintaining a building so long as
the person meets all of the other requirements of this subchapter and such
flight training is not on a full-time basis. This exception does not apply to
flight training conducted by firms, corporations, or other business entities
engaged in the flight training business.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.2.6) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.25 CITY DISCRETION.
   The operation of a flight training program at the Flandreau Municipal
Airport shall be conducted in conjunction with all relevant federal aviation
regulations, state laws, local ordinances, and at the discretion of the
Flandreau City Administrator and the Flandreau Airport Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.5.3) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
AERIAL APPLICATION
§ 153.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a set of guidelines for the
operation of an aerial application business at the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.1) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.41 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or other business entity shall operate
an aerial application business from the Flandreau Municipal Airport without
first obtaining a permit from the City Administrator. The permit fee for an
aerial applicator is $25 and shall be issued upon an application provided by
the city. The permit applicant shall, at a minimum, provide the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Trade name, if any, under which the license is to be exercised;
      (3)   If a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners;
      (4)   If a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers;
      (5)   Place of business or location where the license is to be utilized;
      (6)   Description of the activity to be conducted under the license;
      (7)   Proof of the aerial applicator’s pilot and driver’s license;
      (8)   Proof of current Federal Aviation Administration, FAA, Commercial
Certificate, properly rated for the aircraft to be used, and meeting the
requirements of Part 137 of FAA regulations, being 14 C.F.R. pt. 137; and
      (9)   Proof of financial responsibility for damages and cleanup for an
accidental discharge submitted to the City Administrator prior to commencing
operations at the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
   (B)   In addition to the information indicated in division (A) above, the
applicant shall also deposit with the Flandreau City Finance Officer a bond in
the amount of $5,000 prior to commencing operations. The bond shall be
maintained at the office of the Flandreau City Finance Officer throughout the
duration of the applicant’s operations at the Flandreau Municipal Airport;
however, the bond may be returned to the applicant upon the termination of the
applicant’s operations at the Airport and subject to the approval of the
Airport Manager.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.2)
   (C)   The holder of a permit issued in division (A) above shall submit an
annual fee of $250 per aircraft to the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.3)
(Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.42 REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the city for a
violation of state law, federal rule or regulation, municipal ordinance, or for
good cause showing.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.7) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.43 INSURANCE.
   (A)   At all times during the operation of an aerial application business at
the Flandreau Municipal Airport, the applicant shall maintain insurance upon
said business and premises and provide proof of such coverage with the city. At
a minimum, the applicant shall maintain the following insurance covering
aircraft liability, public liability, and property damage at the following
minimum levels of coverage:
      (1)   Bodily injury: $100,000 for each person; $1,000,000 per occurrence;
      (2)   Property damage: $1,000,000 for each occurrence; and
      (3)   Medical: $5,000 for each person.
   (B)   Deviation below these minimums will require prior approval from the
city and the Airport Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.4) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.44 FACILITIES.
   The applicant will use a segregated chemical storage area that is protected
from public access. Chemical storage tanks shall be designed and used in
accordance with any appropriate federal, state, and city regulations, and
adequate ground equipment, such as an approved permanent or portable
containment area, will be used as approved by the City Manager and Airport
Board for all loading and unloading of chemicals.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.5) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
§ 153.45 CHEMICAL HANDLING.
   (A)   Spill prevention plan. The applicant shall provide the City
Administrator with a copy of his or her spill prevention, containment, and
control plan for the operations at the Flandreau Municipal Airport prior to the
issuance of a permit, and such plan shall be reviewed by the applicant on an
annual basis, and any updates or modifications to the plan will be filed with
the city.
   (B)   Discharge or spill. The applicant shall notify the City Administrator
within one hour of the applicant having knowledge of a discharge of hazardous
material at the Flandreau Municipal Airport.
(Prior Code, § 15.6.6) (Ord. 586, passed 1-15-2018)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Applicability
   
154.04   Amendments
   
154.05   Variances
   
154.06   Enforcement and violations
   
154.07   Interpretation, conflict, and separability
Application Procedure and Approval Process
   
154.20   General procedure
   
154.21   Advisory meeting
   
154.22   Preliminary plat approval
   
154.23   Final plat approval
General Requirements and Minimum Design Standards
   
154.35   General
   
154.36   Land suitability
   
154.37   Street extensions
   
154.38   Dedicated right-of-way and roadway width
   
154.39   Access to arterials and collectors
   
154.40   Intersections
   
154.41   Street grades and elevations
   
154.42   Dead-end streets
   
154.43   Private streets, reserve strips, and alleys
   
154.44   Blocks
   
154.45   Lots
   
154.46   Easements
Required Improvements Prerequisite to Final Approval
   
154.60   General
   
154.61   Property markers
   
154.62   Streets and alleys
   
154.63   Curbs and gutters
   
154.64   Sidewalks
   
154.65   Street signs
   
154.66   Water supply systems, sanitary sewers, and storm drainage
   
154.67   Oversize facilities
   
154.68   Gas lines, electric power, and telephone
   
154.69   Inspection
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The duly designated administrative official(s) of
the City of Flandreau with the charge of enforcing the subdivision ordinance.
   ALLEY. A minor public way having a narrow right-of-way and affording a
secondary means of access to abutting properties.
   CITY FINANCE OFFICER. The duly appointed Finance Officer of the City of
Flandreau.
   CITY COUNCIL (COUNCIL). The duly elected City Council of the City of
Flandreau.
   COMPREHENSIVE/DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the
Comprehensive/Development Plan of the City of Flandreau. This may include but
is not limited to: Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance, Community
Facilities Plan, Major Street Plan, Capital Improvements Program, and
Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
   EASEMENT. A right to land generally established in a real estate deed or on
a recorded plat to permit the use of land by the public, a corporation, or
particular persons for specified uses.
   ENGINEER. The duly designated engineer acting on behalf of the City Council.
   FINAL PLAT. A plat of a tract of land, which meets the requirements of these
regulations and is in form for recording in the office of the Moody County
Register of Deeds.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or for building
development.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The Major Street Plan adopted as an element of the
Comprehensive/Development Plan.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Flandreau Planning Commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or maps of a proposed subdivision and specified
supporting materials drawn and submitted in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter to permit the evaluation of the proposal prior to detailed
engineering and design.
   REGISTER OF DEEDS. The duly designated Register of Deeds of Moody County.
   SKETCH PLAN. The sketch map or maps of a proposed subdivision drawn and
submitted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter to evaluate
feasibility and design characteristics at an early stage in the planning.
   STREET. A tract of land dedicated to public use which affords the primary
means of access to the abutting property but excludes private driveways serving
only one parcel of land.
   SUBDIVIDER. The person(s), firm(s), or corporation(s) owning land in the
process of creating a subdivision of said land.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development,
whether immediate or future. Provided, a division of land into lots or parcels
of 35 acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a
SUBDIVISION. The term includes the establishment or dedication of a road,
highway, street, or alley through a tract of land; a resubdivision of land or
lots; and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of
subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   UTILITIES. Municipal and franchised utilities.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Flandreau.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted to provide for the harmonious development of
the city and its environs; for the coordination of streets within subdivisions
with other existing or planned streets or with other features of the
comprehensive plan; for adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light,
and air; and for a distribution of population and traffic which will tend to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, and convenience through the
provision for an adequate scale of street, sanitary, water, utility, and other
improvements as land is subdivided.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.03 APPLICABILITY.
   In accordance of SDCL § 11-6-26.1 and any other authority provided by law,
or as such statutes may be amended, the city does hereby exercise the power and
authority to review and approve or disapprove plats for the subdivision of land
within the city and for land in the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
Statutory reference
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-6-26.1
§ 154.04 AMENDMENTS.
   From time to time, any provision of these regulations may be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the City Council according to
law.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.05 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council
may grant variances from the provisions of these regulations but only after
determining all of the following.
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question.
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to adjacent property.
      (4)   The variance will not permit or encourage uses contrary to zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the City Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any such variations shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the City Council. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
   (D)   Conditions for waived procedures. Where a proposed subdivision would
contain no more than two parcels or plots of land and no new roads, the
procedure of preparing a preliminary plat may be waived by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.06 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Administrative Official to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the City Attorney any violations
or lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the City Council in accordance with the
provision of these regulations and filed with the County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations, and no excavation of land or
construction of any public or private improvements shall take place or be
commenced except in conformity with these regulations.
   (D)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale or transfer or lease with intent
of evading these regulations shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2000) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
   (C)   Separability. Should a court of competent jurisdiction declare any
provision of this chapter invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity or constitutionality of the subdivision ordinance as a
whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 154.20 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for review and approval of a subdivision plat shall consist of
three separate steps in sequence: an informal discussion meeting with the
Planning Commission or Administrative Official, preparation and submission of a
preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, and preparation and submission of
a final plat of the subdivision.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.21 ADVISORY MEETING.
   Before filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall consult with the
Planning Commission or Administrative Official for advice regarding general
requirements, minimum standards of design, and required improvement as set
forth in §§
154.35 through
154.46 and
154.60 through
154.69. A sketch of the proposal shall be submitted. The subdivider shall also
submit a location map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing or platted streets and existing community facilities. This informal
review should prevent unnecessary costly revisions in the layout and
development of the subdivision. The informal advisory meeting does not require
formal application, fee, or filing of plat with the Planning Commission or City
Council.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   General. After meeting informally with the Planning Commission or
Administrative Official, the subdivider shall cause to be prepared a
preliminary plat prior to the making of any street improvements or the
installation of any utilities. The preliminary plat shall provide all of the
information indicated in division (B) below. The preliminary plat will be
subject to review and revision by the Administrative Official and Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Three copies of the preliminary plat and the required supplemental
material shall be filed with the City Finance Officer who shall transmit them
to the Planning Commission. Such filing shall take place at least ten days
prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which it is to be
considered.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall study the said preliminary plat to
see if it is consistent with the standards set forth in these regulations.
Following a hearing and due consideration of the preliminary plat, the Planning
Commission shall transmit all copies of the preliminary plat to the City
Council together with its recommendation within 60 days after receipt thereof.
Said recommendation shall include approval, disapproval, or suggestions for
modification and the reasons thereof and a discussion of the effect of said
plat on the Comprehensive Plan. Said recommendation shall be of an advisory
nature only. If the Planning Commission does not act within 60 days, the
preliminary plat shall be deemed to have received a favorable recommendation in
all respects and shall receive due consideration by the City Council.
      (3)   Following a hearing and due consideration of the preliminary plat,
the City Council shall approve, disapprove, or modify the plat and shall impose
those requirements or grant those variances in conformance with this chapter
deemed necessary and appropriate by the City Council for final approval. The
action of the Council together with all modifications, requirements, variances,
and reasons thereof shall be noted on all copies of the preliminary plat
application. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and one copy retained
by the City Finance Officer.
      (4)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council shall indicate
approval of the development concept only and shall not constitute acceptance of
the final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat shall lapse unless a final
plat based thereon is submitted within two years from the date of such
approval. An extension of time may be applied for by the subdivider and granted
by the Council.
   (C)   Preliminary plat information. The preliminary plat shall meet the
standards of design as set forth in the following subchapter and shall show the
following information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision, names and addresses of the owners and
engineer or surveyor and the names of adjoining property owners within 500 feet
of any perimeter boundary of the subdivision noting that the name of the
subdivision shall not duplicate or be the same in spelling or alike in
pronunciation with the name of any other recorded subdivision unless it is an
extension of or adjacent to said subdivision;
      (2)   Date, north point, and scale. Scale shall not be less than one inch
equals 100 feet;
      (3)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines, and other underground installations;
      (4)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;
      (5)   Proposed utility system;
      (6)   Contours at an interval of not greater than five feet and the
locations of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas, and such other topographic
features as may be pertinent to the subdivision;
      (7)   Lot lines, lot numbers, and minimum building setback lines;
      (8)   Location of proposed culverts and other drainage provisions;
      (9)   Proposed improvements and grading;
      (10)   Proposed easements, dedications, and reservations of land to be
considered for sale or dedication to public use;
      (11)   Names of new streets; and
      (12)   Attached copies of proposed deed restrictions, if any.
   (D)   Plat review fee. A fee shall be levied for the examination and
approval or disapproval of every plat reviewed by the Council. At the time
preliminary plats are filed with the Finance Officer, the subdivider shall pay
to the Finance Officer the amount of $10 for each plat and $1 for each lot
shown on each plat.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.23 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   General. The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary
plat as approved, and it may constitute only a portion of the preliminary plat
which the subdivider proposes to record and develop.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Following the approval of the preliminary plat, if the developer or
subdivider wishes to proceed, four copies of the final plat and required
supplemental material shall be filed with the Finance Officer who shall
transmit them to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission. Such filing shall
take place at least ten days prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at
which it is to be considered.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall study the said final plat to see if
it is consistent with the minimum standards set forth in these regulations.
Following due consideration by the Planning Commission, the Commission shall
transmit three copies of the final plat to the City Council along with its
recommendation within 60 days after receipt thereof. Said recommendation shall
include approval, disapproval, or suggestions for modifications and reasons
thereof and a discussion of the effect of said plat on the Comprehensive Plan.
Said recommendation shall be of an advisory nature only. If the Planning
Commission does not act within 60 days, the final plat shall be deemed to have
received a favorable recommendation in all respects and shall then receive due
consideration by the City Council.
      (3)   When the City Council has approved the final plat, one copy shall
be returned to the subdivider with the approval of the City Council certified
thereon for filing with the County Register of Deeds as an official plat of
record within 90 days after the date of approval thereof by the City Council.
Another copy certified by the Council will be transmitted to the appropriate
Director of Equalization for his or her records.
   (C)   Final plat information. The following information is required for
final plats for subdivision.
      (1)   The original or reproducible final plat shall be drawn in black ink
and shall be a uniform size, 15 inches by 26 inches or eight and one-half
inches by 14 inches. The scale shall be one inch equals 100 feet or larger.
      (2)   The final plat shall show the following information:
         (a)   Date, title, name, and location of subdivision, graphic scale,
and true north line;
         (b)   All dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat
shall be tied to primary control points. Locations and descriptions of said
control points shall be given. Except where deemed clearly unreasonable or
infeasible by the City Council, these control points shall be the located
section corners of the coordinate system of the state;
         (c)   Name and right-of-way, width of each street, easements, or other
rights-of-way;
         (d)   Lot numbers, lot lines, and frontage dimensions;
         (e)   Location and description of monuments;
         (f)   Names of adjoining properties; and
         (g)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved.
      (3)   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Certification on plat of title showing that the applicant is the
owner, that the making of the plat receives his or her consent and is in
accordance with his or her desires, and a statement by such owner dedicating
streets, rights-of-way, and other sites for public use;
         (b)   Certification on plat by registered engineer as to the accuracy
of survey and plat;
         (c)   Certification that the subdivider has complied with one of the
following alternatives to be determined by the City Council.
            1.   All improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
            2.   A security bond or certified check has been posted with the
City Finance Officer in sufficient amount to assure such completion of all
required improvements.
            3.   At the City Council’s discretion, the subdivider shall file a
letter of assurance to establish the responsibility for the construction of
such improvements in a satisfactory manner and within a period not to exceed
three years specified by the City Council. An extension to that three-year
period may be granted at the discretion of the City Council. Said letter of
assurance shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds at the time of filing
the plat. A copy of each letter of assurance shall be placed on file in the
Finance Officer’s office, and prior to the issuance of any permits, the permit
applicant shall be presented with the letter of assurance so that he or she
will be made aware of where the responsibilities lie for the installation of
any improvements not yet in place.
         (d)   Protective covenants shall either be placed directly on the
final plat or attached thereto in form for recording;
         (e)   Certification on plat by the City Council that the plat has been
approved for recording in the office of the County Register of Deeds;
         (f)   A copy of the certificate of the County Director of Equalization
that he or she has received a copy of such plat;
         (g)   Endorsed on plat or attached to the certificate of the County
Treasurer that all taxes which are liens upon any land included; and
         (h)   Certification by the Administrative Official when individual
sewerage disposal or water systems are to be installed.
   (D)   Guarantee in lieu of completed improvement. No final subdivision plat
shall be approved by the City Council or accepted for record by the Register of
Deeds until the required improvements have been installed in accordance with
the preliminary plat and approved by the Council. In lieu of such prior
construction, the Council may accept a security bond in an amount equal to the
estimated cost installation of the required improvements whereby improvements
may be made and utilities installed without cost to the city in the event of
default of the subdivider.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.35 GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Council shall impose the following general requirements and
compel all subdividers to comply with the principles of design in the layout of
subdivisions hereinafter described.
   (B)   All proposed subdivision regulations shall conform to the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.36 LAND SUITABILITY.
   (A)   If the City Council finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations, and other such conditions as may increase the danger
of health, life, or property or aggravate erosion or flood hazards and, if from
adequate investigations conducted by all public agencies concerned, it has been
determined that in the best interest of the public the land should not be
platted and developed for the purpose proposed, the Council shall not approve
the land for subdivision unless adequate methods are formulated by the
subdivider for meeting the problems that will be created by the subdivision and
development of the land.
   (B)   The City Council may refuse to approve what it considers to be
scattered or premature subdivision of land which would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services such as undue
maintenance costs for adequate roads.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.37 STREET EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, location, and grade of all streets
shall be in accordance with good planning principles and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions,
public convenience, and safety and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Where, at the determination of the City Council, it is desirable to
provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the City
Council deems it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turn around having a radius of at least 50 feet.
   (C)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same time or greater width, but in no case
shall a street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in
these regulations for a street in its category. The arrangement of streets in a
new subdivision shall conform to the Major Street Plan and shall make
provisions for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas or their
proper projection where adjoining land is not subdivided.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.38 DEDICATED RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADWAY WIDTH.
   The following conditions shall govern the designation and minimum street
right-of-way and roadway width.
   (A)   The minimum widths of highways, arterial streets, residential
collector streets, local residential streets, and marginal access to be
dedicated to the city shall be indicated on the Major Street Plan and, where
not shown thereon, shall not be less than as follows:
 
Street Type     Minimum Dedicated
                Right-of-Way Width
Alleys          20 feet
Arterial        100 feet
Collector       80 feet
Local           66 feet
Marginal Access 66 feet
 
   (B)   In undeveloped or vacant areas, the Planning Commission and City
Council shall have the discretion to identify or classify a street as a
collector street.
   (C)   The minimum width for right-of-way and roadway widths in commercial
and industrial districts shall be the same as required for arterials.
   (D)   Minimum roadway widths:
 
Street Type     Pavement Width (Measured from Curb Faces) in Feet
Arterial        64
Collector       40
Local           34
Marginal access 26
 
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.39 ACCESS TO ARTERIALS AND COLLECTORS.
   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed arterial,
access to such roads may be limited, and the City Council, upon recommendation
from the Planning Commission, may require that access to such streets be
limited by one of the following means:
   (A)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the arterial and front onto
a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the arterial and
screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear property line of
such lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from
and designed generally at right angles to such parallel streets with the rear
lines of their terminal lots backing on the arterial;
   (C)   A marginal access or service road separated from the arterial by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points;
   (D)   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property line;
   (E)   Deep lots with rear service drives; or
   (F)   Other treatment as may be necessary to adequately protect residential
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.40 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no
intersection shall be at an angle of less than 70 degrees.
   (B)   Road curb intersections shall be rounded by a radius of at least 13
feet on minor streets and 20 feet on collector streets. When the smallest angle
of the street intersection is less than 90 degrees, the City Council may
require curb radii of greater length.
   (C)   No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to either
a collector or a minor street shall have a service drive, curb cut, or other
means of access to an arterial street within 100 feet of the right-of-way or
any street which intersects such arterial street on the side on which such lot
or parcel is located.
   (D)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be
made.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.41 STREET GRADES AND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   Street grades shall conform to the following:
 
Street Type Maximum Percent Grade
Arterial    7
Collector   8
Local       10
 
   (B)   Minimum grades of any roadway shall not be less than 0.5% unless
otherwise approved by the Council.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.42 DEAD-END STREETS.
   Minor terminal or dead-end streets or courts which are designed so as to
have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall be
provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a diameter at the outside
of the pavement of at least 75 feet and a diameter at the outside of the right-
of-way of at least 100 feet.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.43 PRIVATE STREETS, RESERVE STRIPS, AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   There shall be no private street platted within a subdivision.
   (B)   There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision except where their
control is definitely vested in the city under conditions approved by the City
Council as authorized by this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   Alleys shall not be provided in residential blocks except in
cases where the subdivider produces evidence of the need for alleys which is
satisfactory to the Council.
      (2)   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts
except that the City Council may waive this requirement where another definite
and assured provision is made for service access.
      (3)   Such alleys shall be dedicated to the public.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.44 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 300
feet except as the City Council considers necessary to secure efficient use of
land or desired features of street layout.
   (B)   Width.
      (1)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of minimum
depth.
      (2)   However, where this would require lots to front on an arterial
street or highway or where topographical conditions or the size of the property
prevents two tiers of lots, the Council may approve a single tier of lots of
minimum depth.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.45 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape orientation, and minimum setback
lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type
of development and use contemplated.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of zoning regulations
and the requirements of the state’s Department of Environmental Protection.
   (C)   Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to meet the building
setback lines established on both the front street and side street.
   (D)   Each lot shall be provided with access to a street.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to streets
except on curves where they shall be radial.
   (F)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.46 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Except where alleys are permitted, the Council shall require easements
at least 20 feet in width centered along all rear lot lines. Where necessary or
advisable, in the opinion of the City Council, similar easements shall be
provided along side lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   If the Council deems it necessary for proper drainage within or
through a subdivision, it shall require that a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way be provided.
   (C)   The property owner(s) whose property is subject to such easements
shall be responsible for its maintenance. The property owner(s) shall keep the
easement clear of any structure, debris trees, shrubs, or landscaping
whatsoever except that lawn grass, which shall be regularly mowed, and annual
vegetation may be grown thereon, and no permanent fences shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS PREREQUISITE TO FINAL APPROVAL
§ 154.60 GENERAL.
   (A)   The subdivider is required to install or construct the improvements
hereinafter described prior to receiving approval of his or her final plat or
prior to having released the bonds or other securities which guarantee such
required improvements.
   (B)   All public and private water mains, sanitary sewers, laterals, and
storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent the future cutting of
pavement of any street, sidewalk, or other required pavement.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.61 PROPERTY MARKERS.
   The corners of all lots and the beginning and ending of all curves on
property lines shall be accurately marked on the ground with three-fourths inch
diameter iron rods or pipes at least 24 inches long.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.62 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide street pavements which shall be designed
to carry the expected traffic and which shall be approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The proposed streets shall be designed and inspected by a certified
engineer and have the following minimum improvements:
      (1)   The removal of all top soil and grading to meet drainage
requirements;
      (2)   A minimum of six inches of crushed gravel; and
      (3)   If a paved street is proposed, an additional three inches of
crushed gravel and three inches of asphalt paving is required.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.63 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Standard “L” type curbs and gutters shall be placed on both sides of all
streets in all non-residential and residential subdivisions if required by the
City Council.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.64 SIDEWALKS.
   Portland cement concrete sidewalks no less than four feet wide and four
inches thick shall be constructed on both sides of all streets within a
subdivision having more than three lots per gross acre unless waived by the
City Council. Each intersection shall be provided with gradual ramp from curb
to sidewalk.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.65 STREET SIGNS.
   The City Council may require the subdivider to install durable street name
signs at all intersections which meet specifications of the Street
Superintendent. One street sign is required for each intersection.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.66 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS, SANITARY SEWERS, AND STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall install a complete water distribution system
adequate for domestic supply and for fire protection needs to serve each lot or
tract in every subdivision where connection is to be made immediately to a
community or a utility water system in accordance with the city’s design
standards and specifications. In subdivisions inside the city limits where such
connection to a system is not to be made immediately, plans shall be prepared
for future installation of a water-distribution system to serve each lot or
tract. The subdivider shall construct a subdivision sewer system to adequately
serve each lot and connect the subdivision system to the public system after
the City Council and the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources has approved the design of the system.
   (B)   An adequate drainage system including necessary open ditches, pipes,
culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, and the like for the
proper drainage of all surface water shall be provided. Cross-drains shall be
provided to accommodate all natural water flow, and they shall be of sufficient
length to permit full width roadways and required slopes.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.67 OVERSIZE FACILITIES.
   The City Council may participate in the cost of oversize improvements within
a subdivision if it is adjudged that such oversize improvements are necessary
to serve large areas of land not in the subdivision and if the cost of such
oversize improvements is an unreasonable burden on the subdivider.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.68 GAS LINES, ELECTRIC POWER, AND TELEPHONE.
   The subdivider shall arrange for and file his or her request at the earliest
feasible date for a service desired for his or her subdivision. Where a source
of gas supply is not within a reasonable distance for present installation but,
under a gas line extension agreement, gas service will be extended within five
years following the recording of the final plat, those portions of such lines
which will lie within the portions of streets intended for vehicular traffic
shall be installed. The subdivider shall arrange with the appropriate utility
and shall file his or her request at the earliest feasible date for electric
power and telephone service to his or her subdivision.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.69 INSPECTION.
   Each facility constructed in the subdivision shall be designed and installed
under the inspection of a certified engineer at a cost to the subdivider.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with, or violates any
of the regulations of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
punishable by a fine of up to $200 for each and every day that any violator
fails to comply with the provisions of these regulations. In addition to the
penalties described, the City Council or any member thereof, may institute an
appropriate action or proceedings to seek an injunction in a court of competent
jurisdiction to prevent, retrain, correct, or abate such violation or
threatened violation, and it is the duty of the City Attorney to institute such
action.
(Ord. passed - - 2000)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Definitions
   
155.002   Title and jurisdiction
   
155.003   Purpose and intent
   
155.004   Declared minimum requirements
   
155.005   Separability clause and conflicting ordinances
   
155.006   Official Zoning Map
   
155.007   Reserved
District Regulations
   
155.020   General
   
155.021   Applicability of regulations
   
155.022   General compliance
   
155.023   Construction or alteration of structures and lots
   
155.024   Intent of non-conforming uses
   
155.025   Repairs and maintenance of non-conforming structures
   
155.026   Non-conforming uses and structures
   
155.027   Non-conforming lots of records
   
155.028   Uses under conditional use provisions not non-conforming uses
   
155.029   Zoning districts
A, Agricultural District
   
155.040   Permitted uses
   
155.041   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.042   Conditional uses
   
155.043   Special permitted uses
   
155.044   Prohibited uses
   
155.045   Lot, yard, and height specifications
R1, Single-Family Residential District
   
155.055   Permitted uses
   
155.056   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.057   Special permitted uses
   
155.058   Conditional uses
   
155.059   Prohibited uses
   
155.060   Lot, yard, and height specifications
R2, General Residential District
   
155.070   Permitted uses
   
155.071   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.072   Special permitted uses
   
155.073   Conditional uses
   
155.074   Prohibited uses
   
155.075   Lot, yard, and height specifications
R3, Residential Combined Residential District
   
155.085   Permitted uses
   
155.086   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.087   Special permitted uses
   
155.088   Conditional uses
   
155.089   Prohibited uses
   
155.090   Manufactured home park minimum standards
   
155.091   Application procedure
   
155.092   Manufactured housing subdivisions
   
155.093   Lot, yard, and height specifications
C1, Central Commercial District
   
155.105   Permitted uses
   
155.106   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.107   Special permitted uses
   
155.108   Conditional uses
   
155.109   Prohibited uses
   
155.110   Lot, yard, and height specifications
HC, Highway Commercial District
   
155.120   Permitted uses
   
155.121   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.122   Conditional uses
   
155.123   Prohibited uses
   
155.124   Lot, yard, and height specifications
I, Industrial District
   
155.135   Permitted uses
   
155.136   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.137   Conditional uses
   
155.138   Prohibited uses
   
155.139   Lot, yard, height specifications and screening regulations
   
155.140   Performance standards
FP, Flood Plain District
   
155.155   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and methods of
reducing flood losses
   
155.156   Definitions
   
155.157   General provisions
   
155.158   Administration
   
155.159   Variance procedures
   
155.160   General standards for flood hazard reduction
   
155.161   Specific standards for flood hazard reduction
   
155.162   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.163   Floodways
Administration
   
155.175   Permits required
   
155.176   Applications
   
155.177   Fee schedule
   
155.178   Issuance and expiration of permits
   
155.179   Building/use permits
   
155.180   Conditional use requests
   
155.181   Variance requests
   
155.182   Appeals
   
155.183   Zoning amendments
   
155.184   Reapplication
Administrative Official
   
155.195   Establishment and purpose
   
155.196   Powers and duties
Board of Adjustment
   
155.210   Establishment
   
155.211   Procedures for meetings
   
155.212   Powers and duties
   
155.213   Hearings, appeals, and notice
   
155.214   Stay of proceedings
   
155.215   Power of appeals, reverse decision of administrative officials
   
155.216   Procedures for approval of special permitted use permit
Planning Commission
   
155.220   Commission established
   
155.221   Membership of the Planning Commission
   
155.222   Terms of members
   
155.223   Compensation
   
155.224   Organizations, rules, staff, and finances
   
155.225   Duties
Supplemental Regulations
   
155.230   Visibility at intersections
   
155.231   Construction limitations of fences
   
155.232   Accessory buildings
   
155.233   Accessible structures
   
155.234   Yards
   
155.235   Multiple principle structures on lot
   
155.236   Exceptions to height requirements
   
155.237   Private wastewater treatment systems
   
155.238   Manufactured modular homes
   
155.239   Type I and type II manufactured homes
   
155.240   Permanent foundations required for dwellings
   
155.241   Utility easements
   
155.242   Moved buildings
   
155.243   Screening
   
155.244   Adoption of Building Code
   
155.245   Caretaker/Watchperson’s quarters
Signs
   
155.260   Purpose and intent
   
155.261   Prohibited signs
   
155.262   General requirements
   
155.263   Signs in the residential zoning districts
   
155.264   Signs in commercial and industrial zoning districts
   
155.265   Portable signs
   
155.266   Electronic message signs
   
155.267   Signs on otherwise vacant lots (as conditional use)
Parking and Highway
   
155.275   Parking, storage, and use of major recreation equipment
   
155.276   Parking and storage of vehicles
   
155.277   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.278   South Dakota Highway 32 Regulations
Small Cell Wireless Communication Facilities
   
155.290   Purpose
   
155.291   Reserved
   
155.292   Applicability
   
155.293   Siting and collocation criteria
   
155.294   Permit required
   
155.295   Permit provisions and process
   
155.296   Permit conditions
   
155.297   Applications, fees, and rates
   
155.298   Standards for design, equipment, aesthetics, and the like
   
155.299   Relocation and removal
   
155.300   General indemnification
   
155.301   Reserved
   
155.302   Conflict
Home Occupation
   
155.320   Home occupation
   
155.321   Performance standards
Bed and Breakfast
   
155.330   Bed and breakfast (B&Bs)
Adult Uses
   
155.340   Adult uses
   
155.341   Setbacks
   
155.342   Required license
   
155.343   Application; standards for issuance
   
155.344   Conditions and regulations governing operation; violation; penalty
   
155.345   Suspension or revocation
Shop-Style Dwelling Standards
   
155.350   Shop-style dwelling standards
Extended Home Occupation
   
155.360   Extended home occupation
Refuse
   
155.370   Refuse
Cannabis Dispensaries
   
155.380   Cannabis dispensaries
   
155.381   Cannabis product manufacturing facility/cannabis cultivation facility
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or
structure.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY. Any lot, parcel, or property bordering by means of
adjoining, abutting, or intersecting a specified lot boundary, and those lots
immediately across a public right-of-way from a specified lot. See figures
below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1539.gif]
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The individual(s) appointed by the City Council and
designated to administer and enforce the zoning ordinance.
   ADULT BOOKSTORES. An establishment having, as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films or videotapes for sale or viewing on
the premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas as such terms are defined in this section, or an establishment
with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
Adult bookstores may alternatively or in conjunction with the above stock in
trade sell undergarments and other clothing designed for the display of
specified anatomical areas or for the enhancement of specified sexual
activities. Further, an adult bookstore may alternatively or in conjunction wit
h the ab ove sto ck in tra de sell pro sth etic de vic es, dolls, candles,
vibrators, and other objects for sexual gratification which take the form of
specified anatomical areas and for the purpose of enhancing specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Means an establishment offering to its
patrons, as entertainment, any exhibition or display or any theatrical or other
live performances which include topless or go-go dancers, exotic dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers, or any
persons singing, reading, posing, modeling, or serving food or beverages, where
the exhibition, performance, display or dance is intended to sexually arouse
the entertainer or the patrons, or where the attire of persons involved is such
as to expose specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building, regardless of its
seating capacity which is used to present for public view on the premises,
films, movies, previews, trailers or advertisements which are distinguished by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT PHOTO STUDIO. An establishment which, on payment of a fee, provides
photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing
"specified anatomical areas," as herein defined.
   ADULT USE. Shall include adult entertainment facility, adult bookstores,
adult motion picture theaters, and adult photo studios as defined in this
section.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. A person aggrieved is any person directly interested in
the outcome of and aggrieved by a decision or action or failure to act pursuant
to this chapter who:
      (1)   Establishes that the person suffered an injury, an invasion of a
legally protected interest that is both concrete and particularized, and actual
or imminent, not conjectural, or hypothetical;
      (2)   Shows that a causal connection exists between the person's injury
and the conduct of which the person complains. The causal connection is
satisfied if the injury is fairly traceable to the challenged action, and not
the result of the independent action of any third party not before the court;
      (3)   Shows it is likely, and not merely speculative, that the injury
will be redressed by a favorable decision; and
      (4)   Shows that the injury is unique or different from those injuries
suffered by the public in general.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. The raising of grain crops and/or animals.
   AIRPORT. A place where aircraft can land and takeoff, usually equipped with
hangers, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations for
passengers, including heliports.
   AGRICULTURE. The cultivation of the soil, and all activities incident
thereto, except that said term shall not include the raising and feeding of
hogs, sheep, goats, cattle, poultry, or fur bearing animals.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way which affords secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ANIMAL UNIT. One animal unit is equivalent to either: one feeder/slaughter
cattle, one-half horse; seven-tenths mature dairy cow; two and one-half
finishing swine; ten nursery swine; ten sheep/goats; 55 turkeys; five ducks/
geese; 30 hens, cockerels, capons, broilers.
   ANTENNA. Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provisions of wireless
services. This definition does not include broadcast radio or television
antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for
residential or household purposes.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms designed for, intended for, or used as a
residence for one family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A detached dwelling designed for or occupied by three or
more family units.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application as, or on behalf, of a
property owner.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premise which provides for the
retail sale of gasoline, oil, tires, batteries, and accessories for motor
vehicles and for certain motor vehicle services, including washings, tire
changing, battery service, radiator service, lubrication, brake service, wheel
service, and testing or adjusting of automotive parts. Automotive repair work
may be done at a service station provided that no rebuilding of engines, spray
paint operations, or body or fender repair is permitted.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP. Any building or premise which provides services
relating to the rebuilding of engines, spray paint operations, or body or
fender repair.
   BAR or LOUNGE. An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages
by the drink.
   BASEMENT. A basement is any floor level below the first story in a building,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as
defined herein.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (B&B). A private single-family residence which is used to
provide limited meals and temporary accommodations for a charge to the public.
(See §
155.330 .)
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, unsubdivided
acreage or boundary line of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a motel, hotel or restaurant, where
lodging and meals are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding ten
persons, and not open to the public or transients.
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography, space, fences, or landscape planting to
partially screen a use or activity from another property and thus reduce
undesirable views or influences.
   BUILDING. Includes the words STRUCTURE and PREMISES and is a structure which
is entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which
there are no communicating doors or windows or similar openings and is designed
for the support, shelter, and protection of persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That portion of the lot that can be occupied by the
principal use, thus excluding the front, rear and side yards. The diagram below
illustrates the buildable area of a hypothetical lot. This diagram is for
reference only. Setbacks and other requirements vary from district to district.
(See illustration below.)
Buildable Area Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1541.png]
 
   BUILDING LINE. Is a line on the lot running parallel to the required
horizontal distance from the nearest property line.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
   CAMPGROUN D. Shall mean a plot of ground for public use upon which two or
more campsites are located, established, maintained, advertised, or held out to
the public, to be a place where camping units can be located and occupied as
temporary living quarters. Campgrounds for tent trailers and recreational
vehicles shall be sited with consideration for access to the property. The
campground shall be designed to minimize the impact from adjacent major
thoroughfares.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L.
(hemp) and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all
derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of
isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than three-tenths of one percent (.0003%) on a dry
weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses, stores,
delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses cannabis,
cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT.  A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to analyze
the safety and potency of cannabis.
   CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE or WATCHPERSON’S QUARTERS. A dwelling unit which is
occupied by one who is employed by a business located on the same premises or
within the same structure as said dwelling unit. (See §
155.245.)
   CHURCH. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship,
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily
associated with such primary purpose. The definition of CHURCH includes all
religious institutions.
   CITY. The City of Flandreau, South Dakota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Flandreau.
   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION. The members appointed by the city to serve in an
advisory capacity on planning and zoning matters. The PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION required in SDCL § 11-6-2 shall be referred to throughout this
document as the PLANNING COMMISSION.
   CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at
street intersections and ingress and egress points in which there are
restrictions on things erected, placed, or planted which would limit or
obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1543.png]
 
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight, but are
admitted for examination and treatment by physicians, psychologists,
optometrists, chiropractors or dentists and other health care professionals
practicing medicine together and including facilities for training and
rehabilitation.
   COLLOCATION. The mounting or installation of an antenna or a small cell
facility on a pre-existing utility pole or SCF support structure and/or
modifying a utility pole or SCF support structure for the purpose of mounting
or installing an antenna or SCF on that utility pole or SCF support structure
in order to transmit and/or receive radio frequency signals for communications
purposes.
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE, MINI-STORAGE FACILITIES.  Individual locker storage
facilities (frequently with some accessory outdoor vehicle/boat storage)
primarily for the benefit of residential or small business users in which are
kept household items, business records, vehicles, recreational equipment, etc.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer designed or
used to carry freight, passengers for a fee, or merchandise in the furtherance
of any commercial enterprise and having a gross weight of more than 10,000
pounds.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN). The adopted long-range
plan intended to guide the growth and development of the city including a
compilation of policy statements, objectives, standards, and maps for guiding
the physical, social and economic development, both public and private, of the
municipality and its environs, as defined in current state law.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A conditional use is a use that would not be appropriate
generally or without restriction throughout the zoning division or district
but, if controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to the
neighborhood, would promote the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order,
comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may
be permitted in such zoning division or district as conditional uses as
specific provisions for such uses are made in this chapter. CONDITIONAL USES
are subject to evaluation and approval by the Board of Adjustment and are
administrative in nature.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of single units in a multi-unit residential
structure with common elements. (With the property subject to the condominium
regime established pursuant to SDCL § 43-15A.) Commercial uses may occupy
properties platted pursuant to SDCL § 43-15A, however where referenced herein,
the term CONDOMINIUM only authorizes the structure to be used for residential
purposes. This chapter does not differentiate between the manner of ownership
of non-residential uses.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any clearing of land, excavation, or other action that would
adversely affect the natural environment of the site or route but does not
include changes needed for temporary use of sites or routes for non-utility
purposes, or uses in securing survey or geological data, including necessary
borings to ascertain foundation conditions.
   CONSTRUCTION, ACTUAL. Construction materials are being permanently placed
and the construction work is proceeding without undue delay.
   CONTRACTOR SHOPS AND STORAGE YARDS. Those facilities include structures and
land areas where the outdoor storage of equipment and supplies used for various
types of off-site construction are stored. Examples of equipment and supplies
include but are not limited to the following - road construction, building
construction, gravel operations, and general contracting services.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale pre-packaged
food products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the
same, at which a customer typically purchases only a few items during a short
visit. Convenience stores may or may not sell fuel.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space bounded on two or more sides by the exterior
walls of a building or buildings on the same lot.
   CURB LEVEL. The curb level is the level of the established curb in front of
the building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its
equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
   DAY CARE. Any operation which provides childcare services whether accessory
to the caregiver's home or operated in a separate commercial structure.
   DAY CARE CENTER, LICENSED. A commercial structure used for the purposes of
providing childcare services. To be considered a DAY CARE CENTER under these
regulations, the state must license such operation.
   DENSITY. The number of families, individuals, dwelling units, or housing
structures per unit of land.
   DOG ENCLOSURE. An attached or detached outdoor structure intended for the
exercising, containment, and/or sheltering of a dog or dogs. Not to include a
fence constructed on the perimeter of the property. See example figures below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1545.png]
 
   DWELLING. Any building or part thereof which is designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes by one or more human beings either permanently or
transiently.
   DWELLING, FARM. Any dwelling located on a farming operation which is used or
intended for use as a residence by the farm’s owner, relative of the owner, or
a person employed on the premises.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling building, other
than a manufactured home, including modular homes designed for and occupied by
one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two household units
designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or rooms connected together constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or rental or lease
on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and it is physically separated from any
other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure and contains
independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   EAVE. The lower edge of a sloping roof or that part of a roof which projects
beyond the wall.
   EAVE HEIGHT. The vertical dimension from finished grade to the eave.
   ENGINEER. Means any engineer licensed by the State of South Dakota.
   ESSENTIAL PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES. Overhead or underground electrical,
natural gas, water transmission or distribution systems and structures, or
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems and structures used by
public for protection of the public health, safety or general welfare,
including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
satellite dishes, and accessories in connection therewith.
   EXCEPTION. An exemption to a specified regulation within this chapter which,
unless otherwise specified, may be authorized by the administrative official.
   EXTENDED HOME OCCUPATION. A home occupation conducted outside of the
residence and/or in an accessory building. (See §
155.321.)
   FAMILY. One or more individuals living, sleeping, cooking, or eating on the
premises as a single housekeeping unit, but it shall not include a group or
more than four individuals not related by blood or marriage.
   FARM. An area of ten acres or more on which a bonafide business with the
purpose or producing agriculture products and the incidental uses of horses,
dogs, or other animals and other similar operations, specifically excluding
greenhouses, horticultural nurseries, kennels and other similar commercial
operations. For purposes of this chapter, all land in like ownership being
operated as a single economic unit shall be considered to be part of a FARM.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEEDLOT. A lot, yard, corral, building, or other area where animals in
excess of ten animal units per acre or in excess of animal units per parcel of
land have been, are, or will be stabled or confined for a total of 45 days or
more during any 12-month period and where crops, vegetation, forage growth, or
post harvest residues are not sustained over any portion of the lot or
facility.
   FENCE. A structure used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection, or confinement and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire
mesh, masonry, or other similar material and is used as a barrier of some sort.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision,
or other entity.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which gives off flammable vapors, as
determined by the flash point from an open-cup tester as used for test of
burning oils, at or below a temperature of 80 degrees Fahrenheit, is flammable.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign that has artificial light or color which
is not maintained at a constant intensity or color when such sign is in use. A
sign providing public service information, such as time, weather, date,
temperature, or similar information, shall not be considered a flashing sign.
   FOOTPRINT, BUILDING. The portion of a building measures from the outside of
exterior walls that covers the ground, but excluding the edge of roofs that
overhang exterior walls that are intended to prevent rain, snow, and other
debris from spilling directly down the side of the building (e.g., roof eave).
   FUNERAL HOME/MORTUARY. A building used for the preparation of the deceased
for burial and display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before
burial or cremation. A funeral home may include a funeral chapel but does not
include crematoriums.
   GAME LODGE. A building or group of two or more detached, or semi-detached,
or attached buildings occupied or used as a temporary abiding place of
sportsmen, hunters and fishermen, who are lodged with or without meals, and in
which there are sleeping quarters.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building used for the storage of not more than
four vehicles owned and used by the occupant of the building to which it is
necessary. Vehicles include cars, pickups, and boats, but not commercial
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling, storing, or parking motor-driven vehicles. The term repairing shall
not include an automobile body repair shop nor the rebuilding, dismantling, or
storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises used for housing only motor-driven
vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles.
   GENERAL COMPATIBILITY WITH ADJACENT PROPERTIES.  All uses listed as
permitted or as conditional uses are generally compatible with other property
in a specified zoning district. If such uses are not generally compatible, they
should be prohibited within the specified district. Conditional uses may only
be denied in accordance with definable criteria in order that an applicant may
know under which circumstances a permit may be granted in this location. In
Flandreau, general compatibility refers to the manner of operation of a use.
The Board of Adjustment may consider compatibility when prescribing conditions
for approval of a permit, but those conditions should be uniformly required of
similar uses under similar circumstances throughout the county.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY. An organized entity which, in addition to having
governmental character, has sufficient discretion in the management of its own
affairs to distinguish it as separate from the administrative structure of any
other governmental unit.
   GRADE. The finished grade of premises improved by a building or structure is
the average natural elevation or slope of the surface of the ground within 50
feet of the building or structure.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass
regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants for
subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of all floors of a building, including
intermediately floored tiers, mezzanine, basements, etc., as measured from
exterior surfaces of the outside walls of the building.
   GROUP HOME. A supervised living or counseling arrangement in a family home
context providing for the 24 hour care of children or adults.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade of street grade or finished grade at the building line,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. (See §
155.320.)
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building designed for occupancy as a temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which there
are four or more guest rooms open to the public and transients.
   HOUSEHOLD UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   INDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor facility, with or without seating for
spectators, and providing accommodations for a variety of individual,
organized, or franchised sports, including but not limited to basketball, ice
hockey, wrestling, soccer, tennis, volleyball, racquetball, or handball. Such
facility may also provide other regular organized or franchised events, health
and fitness club facilities, swimming pool, snack bar, restaurant, retail sales
of related sports, health or fitness items, and other support.
   INTERMODAL SHIPPING/STORAGE CONTAINER. A six-sided metal unit constructed as
a general cargo container used for the transport and storage of goods and
materials. Intermodal shipping/storage containers do not include railroad cars,
bus bodies, semi-trailers, and similar items designed to be permanently
attached to a chassis. See image below.
Intermodal Shipping/Storage Co
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1549.png]
 
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 50 square feet of any land, buildin g, or
structur e, whether for private or commercial purposes or both where waste
discarded or salvaged materials such as scrap metals, used building materials,
used lumber, used glass, discarded vehicles, paper, rags, rubber, cordage,
barrels, machinery, and the like or parts thereof with or without the
dismantling, processing, salvage, sale, or other use or disposition of the
same. Nonconforming junkyards are considered a public nuisance and may be
screened, abated and/or acquired consistent with state law. Where such
materials are a byproduct of a use, permitted by the city, such activity shall
be considered outdoor storage.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any premises or portion thereon where more than three
dogs, cats, or other household pets are raised, trained, boarded, harbored, or
kept for remuneration or are offered for sale, or are kept for the purpose of
sale. Veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, and animal shelters are
specifically excluded.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. Those manufacturing processes which are not obnoxious
due to dust, odor, noise, vibration, pollution, smoke, heat, or glare. These
commercial and industrial uses are characterized by generally having all
aspects of the process carried on within the building itself.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT. A plat, parcel or tract of land having specific boundaries, and which
has been recorded in the Register of Deeds office. Unless otherwise specified
by this chapter or allowed by the Board of Adjustment, a lot shall include only
one principal building together with its accessory buildings; open spaces and
parking spaces required by these regulations and shall have its principal
frontage upon a public right-of-way other appr oved acces s.
   LOT COVERAGE. For the purposes of this chapter, the percentage determined by
dividing the area of a lot covered by the total (in square feet of: (A) the
footprint of the primary structure; and (B) the footprint(s) of all accessory
structures by the total lot area (D). (See formula and figure below):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1551.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1553.gif]
   LOT FRONTAGE. The portion nearest the street. For the purposes of
determining yard requirements on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a
lot adjacent to streets shall be considered FRONTAGE. Minimum FRONTAGE for lots
located on cul-de-sacs shall be determined as the average of the widest and
narrowest width of the lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot. There are three types of lot
lines: front, side and rear. See illustration below
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1555.png]
 
   LOT MEASUREMENTS.
      (1)    Depth. The average mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
      (2)    Width. The distance between side lot lines measured at a point of
50 feet from the street line thereof.
      (3)   Area. The lot area is the area of a horizontal plane in square feet
or acres within the lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the Moody County Register of Deeds prior to the adoption of Ordinance 622,
adopted on October 7, 2024.
   LOT TYPES. See figure below
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1557.png]
 
      (1)    CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees. (See lot A and lot A & D.)
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street. (See lot B.)
      (3)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles, meaning interior angle less than 135
degrees, to the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also
be a corner lot (see lot A & D), an interior lot (see lot B & D) or through lot
(see lot C & D).
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots. (See lot C and lot C & D.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See §
155.239.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables,
turnbuckles, chains, ties, or other approved materials used to secure a
manufactured or mobile home.
      (2)   ANSI/NFPA 501A STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE
HOMES. Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents)
for installation of manufactured and mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted
by the National Fire Protection Association and Manufactured Housing Institute.
      (3)   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
      (4)   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of
fire and weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated
pressed wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of
the manufactured.
      (5)   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground. See also §
155.239.
      (6)   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transporting loads
from a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line
without exceeding the same bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      (7)   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
      (8)   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or combination of footings, piers, caps,
plates, and shims, which, when installed, support the manufactured or mobile
home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. See §
155.089.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MEASUREMENT. Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally and shall be expressed to the nearest integral foot. If a
fractional distance is one-half (½) foot or less, the preceding or lesser
integral foot measurement shall control.
   MINING. The excavation of earth materials for the purpose of sale.
   MODULAR HOME. See §
155.238.
   MOVED-IN BUILDING. A building that previously existed on a lot of different
location relocated for use as a residence, out-building, commercial,
industrial, or any building used in relation to these uses shall be recognized
as a moved-in building.
   NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE. The telecommunications demarcation and test point
separating the wireless facility and the wireline backhaul facility.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use at the time of passage of this chapter or amendment which does not conform
after the passage of this chapter or amendment with the use regulation of the
district in which it is situated.
   NON-STANDARD USE. The category of nonconformance consisting of lots occupied
by buildings or structures or uses which existed immediately prior to the
effective date of this chapter which fail to comply with any of the following:
minimum lot requirements for the area, density, width, front yard, side yard,
rear yard, height, unobstructed open space, or parking for the district in
which they are located, even though the use of the premises conforms to the
permitted uses within the district as set out in the provisions of this
chapter.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING BUSINESS. Provisions of outdoor displays or display
space on a lease or rental basis only.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. An outdoor arrangement of objects, items, products, or
other materials, typically not in a fixed position and capable of
rearrangement, designed and used for the purpose of advertising or identifying
a business, product, or service. This definition excludes new and used sale,
lease, or rental of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles,
boats, or watercraft.
   OUTSIDE STORAGE. Outside storage is the keeping of commodities, goods, raw
materials, equipment, vehicles, heavy vehicles, or merchandise not within an
enclosed building, including incidental maintenance and repair of the material
which is being stored. This definition excludes new and used sale, lease, or
rental of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, boats, or
watercraft. Parking of company owned automobiles that are currently registered,
licensed, and operable will be excluded. Materials and equipment that are
transferred from an enclosed building for an outdoor sales display are not
considered outside storage.
   PARCEL.  A single tract of land, located within a single block, which at the
time of filing for a building/use permit, is designated by the owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under
single or unified ownership or control, and assigned to the particular use,
building or structure, for which the building/use permit are issued and
including such area of land as may be required by the provisions of this
chapter for such use, building or structure.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Consists of a space adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides together with related
access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room. A space for parking of
automobiles which has a minimum width of nine feet and a minimum length of 19
feet.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. An approved wood basement constructed of two by six
framework and treated with water resistant materials or a foundation shall be
constructed with eight inches of poured concrete or concrete block. The
FOUNDATION shall be to a depth below the frost line.
   PERMIT. A permit required by these regulations unless stated otherwise.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. In addition to an individual, PERSON includes firm, association,
trust, organization, partnership, company, or corporation, limited liability
company, joint venture, public service company, cooperative, political
subdivision, municipal corporation, government agency, public utility district,
or any other entity, public or private, however organized.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments providing non-medically related services,
including beauty and barber shops; clothing rental; dry cleaning pick-up
stores; laundromats (self-service laundries); psychic readers; shoe repair
shops; tanning salons; tattoo parlors; body piercing studios; etc. These uses
may also include accessory retail sales of products related to the services
provided.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed members of the Planning Commission
serving in an advisory capacity on planning and zoning matters. The PLANNING
AND ZONING COMMISSION required in SDCL § 11-6-2 shall be referred to throughout
this document as the PLANNING COMMISSION.
   PLAT. The map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision is legally recorded.
   PLAT. The map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision is legally recorded.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which the premises are devoted.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Work done for others, predominately on the premises
of the office, by someone trained and engaged in such work for a career; e.g.,
doctors, lawyers, accountants.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW. The surface and space above and
below any street, sidewalk, avenue, boulevard, alley, lane, easement, right-of-
way, highway, or thoroughfare open for public use in which the city has an
interest in law or equity whether held in fee or other estate or interest or as
a trustee for the public.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, or camping
trailer, with or without motor power, designed for human habitation for
recreational or emergency occupancy. A recreational vehicle does not include
manufactured homes.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any building used for non-profit purposes by an
established religious organization holding either tax exempt status under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or under the state property tax
law, where such building is primarily intended to be used as a place of
worship. The term includes but is not necessarily limited to. church, temple,
synagogue, and mosque.
   ROOF LINE. Either the edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette; and where a building has several
roof eaves, this roof or parapet shall be the one belonging to that portion of
the building on whose wall a sign is located. (See roof-line figure below)
Roof Line Figure[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/IMAGES/0-0-0-1559.gif]
 
   SANITARY LANDFILLS. Method of waste disposal involving the dumping and daily
covering of waste material all in compliance with state regulations.
   SALE OR AUCTION YARD/BARN. A place or building where the normal activity is
to sell or exchange livestock. Livestock normally in yard or farm for one day
during sale or auction.
   SCREENING. Earthforms, walls, fences, plant material or other structures or
devices intended to partially obscure, conceal or protect from off-site view.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the front line or street
line and the nearest edge of any building or any projection thereof except
cornices and unenclosed porches and entrance vestibules and window bays
projecting not more than three and one-half feet from the building and not more
than 50 square feet in area and which do not extend above the first story of
the building. Also referred to as YARD or REQUIRED YARD.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Retail buildings of greater than 100,000 square feet and
designed for more than one tenant.
   SHOULD. The condition is a recommendation. If violations of this regulation
occur, the city will evaluate whether the party implemented the recommendations
contained in this regulation that may have helped the party to avoid the
violation.
   SIGN. Means a name, identification, display, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land in view of the general public, and which directs attention to a product,
place, activity, purpose, institution or business. This definition does not
include national or state flags or their emblem or insignia, interior window
displays, athletic scoreboards, or the official announcement or signs of
government.
   SIGN AREA. The total area or areas of all signs within the outer edges of
the sign or advertising message, Sign area may be calculated in the following
manners:
      (1)   A single message on a single sign face.[https://export.amlegal.com/
media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/IMAGES/0-0-0-1561.gif]
      (2)   Multiple messages on a single sign face.[https://
export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1563.gif]
      (3)   Multiple messages on stacked signs.[https://export.amlegal.com/
media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/IMAGES/0-0-0-1565.gif]
 
   SIGN, AREA IDENTIFICATION OR NAMEPLATE. A freestanding ground sign or pylon
which identifies the names of neighborhoods, a residential subdivision, a
multiple residential complex, or a commercial or industrial complex consisting
of three or more businesses.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY/READER BOARD. An outdoor sign or any portion thereof
which is permanently affixed or mounted to a support structure or building
which has removable characters, letters, or illustrations that may be manually
changed or rearranged without altering the underlying sign surface.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign whose message may be changed at
intervals by electronic process or remote control and whose only movement is
the periodic changing of information having a constant light level.
   SIGN (FLASHING). Means any illuminated sign on which such illumination is
not kept stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign attached to or a part of a self-supporting
structure. Any supporting structure shall be set firmly below the ground
surface and shall not be attached to any building or any other structure,
pylon, or ground sign.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. Any sign which directs traffic, displays street names, or
which serves any public purpose duly authorized by governing body having
jurisdiction thereof.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is anchored to the ground and has no air space
between grade and the bottom of the frame or sign facing.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION OR NAMEPLATE. A sign which bears the name or address or
both of the business or the occupant of the building on which it is located.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign which has artificial light source directed upon it
or which has an interior light source.
   SIGN, INFORMATIONAL. A sign erected on private property providing general
information about the use or uses on such property that the sign relates to,
such as name and address, for the following uses: church, school, hospital,
club, library, civic, or other similar types.
   SIGN, INSTITUTIONAL. A sign which identifies such uses as hospitals,
clinics, churches, schools, government buildings, libraries, museums, apartment
complexes, and retirement homes.
   SIGN, MARQUEE AND/OR CANOPY. Any message or identification which is affixed
to a projection or extension of a building or structure and erected in such a
manner as to provide a shelter or cover over the approach of any structure of a
store, building, or place of public assembly being at least ten feet above any
public sidewalk and being at least two feet behind the face of the curb.
   SIGN, MOTION. A sign which revolves, rotates, or moves in any way by
mechanical means.
   SIGN (PARKING). A sign which provides specific instruction to the public,
including but not limited to, "Center," "Exit," "No Parking," "Drive Through."
No parking sign shall be permitted to include any commercial message.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign permanently attached to framing or a sign with a
support member at or below the frost line or attached to a building or other
structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or structure.
   SIGN (POLE). A freestanding sign wholly supported by one or more poles.
   SIGN (PORTABLE). Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure designed to be transported from structure to structure or
site to site at periodic intervals. Portable signs include signs attached to or
painted on vehicles, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day
operations of the business. Portable signs are temporary signs.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign affixed to an exterior wall or roof of a building,
and which extends more than 18 inches from the face of the building wall, and
which is perpendicular to the building wall being at least ten feet above
sidewalk and being at least two feet behind face of curb.
   SIGN (REAL ESTATE). A sign placed upon property for the purpose of
advertising the sale, lease, or availability for rent of property.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon and above a roof structure and wholly
supported by the roof structure or a structure placed upon the roof. Roof signs
shall constitute any message placed upon sloped building fascia intended to
appear as or actually be roof elements of the building.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting a sign, including decorative cover.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign used for varying periods of time which is not
permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure. The following
are examples of TEMPORARY SIGNS (not all inclusive):
      (1)   BANNER SIGN. A sign constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, paper,
cardboard, or any other lightweight material. National, state, or municipal
flags or the official flag of any institution or business shall not be
considered BANNERS.
      (2)   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign identifying a building or
construction site, architects, engineers, contractors, or suppliers.
      (3)   INFLATABLE SIGN. A sign capable of expanding due to the injection
of air, gas, water, or vapor.
      (4)   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign, such as poster card or lawn sign,
advertising a candidate or issue to be voted upon a definite election day.
      (5)   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure designed to be transported from structure to
structure or site to site at periodic intervals. Portable signs include signs
attached to or painted on vehicles unless said vehicle is used in the normal
day-to-day operations of the business.
      (6)    REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertisi ng the sale or lease
of property or buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1570.png]
 
   SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the face of said wall and extending not more than 18 inches from the
building wall face.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE. A facility for the slaughtering and processing of animals
and refining of their byproducts for wholesale purposes.
   SLEEPING QUARTERS.  A room or an area contained within a dwelling unit
utilized for the purpose of sleep.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY or SCF. A wireless facility that either meets all of the
following qualifications or is within a stealth design that is consistent with
the design guidelines.
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than three
cubic feet in volume, or in the case of an antenna that has been exposed to the
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
enclosure of no more than three cubic feet.
      (2)   Each provider's equipment enclosures shall be no larger than 28
cubic feet in volume. The following associated equipment may be located outside
of the primary equipment enclosure and, if so located, is not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment measures, network
interface devices, underground enclosures, back-up power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, cables, conduits,
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any
equipment concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
      (3)   The facility is mounted on a utility pole or SCF support structure
50 feet or less in height, including antennas, on a utility pole or SCF support
structure no more than 10% taller than other adjacent structures of
substantially similar design or on an existing utility pole or SCF support
structure on which it is to be located to a height of more than the greater of
either 50 feet or the height of such utility pole or SCF support structure plus
10%.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY PERMIT. A permit authorizing the installation,
construction, and maintenance of a small cell facility.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY SUPPORT STRUCTURE or SCF SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure
such as a monopole or tower either guyed or self-supporting, billboard,
building, or other existing structure designed to support, or capable of
supporting, SCFs. Such term does not include a utility pole.
   SPECIAL PERMITTED USE. Any land use listed as a special permitted use within
a zoning district that meets the specified criteria for certification.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human or animal genitals,
pubic region, or pubic hair, buttocks, and female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
      (2)   Genitals of humans or animals in a discernible turgid state, even
if completely opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means:
      (1)   Human or animal genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (2)   Acts or representations of acts of human or animal masturbation,
sexual intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation;
      (3)   Fondling or erotic touching of human or animal genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or female breast; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in an adult bookstore or "Adult Entertainment Facility."
   STABLE. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic animals,
especially horses and cattle.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic
animals, especially horses and cattle where such domestic animals are raised,
trained, boarded, harbored, or kept for remuneration. Veterinary clinics,
animal hospitals and animal shelters are specifically excluded.
   STAND, ROADSIDE. A structure for the display and sale of products with no
space for customers within the structure itself.
   STEALTH DESIGN. Any SCF that is integrated as an architectural feature of a
utility pole or changes a support structure design so that the purpose of the
utility pole or SCF support structure for providing wireless services is not
readily apparent. This includes the ability of SCFs to blend into the
neighborhood environment at a given location and camouflage or conceal the SCF
subject to applicable law.
   STEEL SIDING, CORRUGATED. A type of sheet iron or steel strengthened for use
in construction by having a series of alternating grooves forced into it, not
painted and usually galvanized for weather resistance. See figure below:
Steel Siding, Corrugated Figure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1572.png]
   STEEL SIDING, NON- CORRUGATED. A system of colored metal panels customarily
installed as a sheet that cover the exterior side of a wall of a residential or
commercial building, which are not defined as corrugated steel siding, and
customarily installed in a vertical manner but also capable of being installed
horizontally. See figure below:
Steel Siding, Non-corrugated Figure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1574.png]
 
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or unused under-floor space is more than six feet
above grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet
above grade at any point, such basement or unused under-floor space shall be
considered as a story.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not more than four
feet below grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter, or more than eight
feet below grade at any point.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property. Also, may be referred to as road or highway. The term street
shall include and apply to any public way except alleys. Streets may be further
classified in accordance with the following terms referenced in the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the City of Flandreau:
      (1)   Arterial street. A street designated as such upon the Major Street
Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the City of Flandreau.
      (2)   Collector street. A street designated as such upon the Major Street
Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the City of Flandreau.
      (3)   Local street. Any street which is not an arterial street or
collector street.
   STREET LINE. A right-of-way line of a street. See figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1135.png]
 
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with affixed location on the
ground or attached to something having fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, billboards, swimming pools, and signs.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Anything constructed, erected, or placed which
requires temporary location on the ground or attachment to something having a
temporary location on the ground for use.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Anything constructed, erected, or placed which
requires temporary location on the ground or attachment to something having a
temporary location on the ground for use.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building developments
(whether immediate or future). This term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, is related to the process of subdividing or to the
land subdivided.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. This term refers to the amount of work required to
be completed in association with a building/use permit issued by the city. In
order to be substantially complete, 75% of the project for which a building/use
permit has been issued is required to be finished.
   TOWNHOUSES. See CONDOMINIUM.
   TRAILER. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Travel trailer. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation uses. The trailer shall be permanently identified "travel trailer" by
the manufacturer of the trailer and, when factory equipped for the road, it
shall have a body width not exceeding eight feet, and a body length not
exceeding 38 feet.
      (2)   Pick-up coach. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation.
      (3)   Motorhome. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (4)   Camper trailer. A canvas, folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreation, and vacation use.
   TREE. A tree which is required by the ordinance and meets or exceeds the
definitions of deciduous shade trees and evergreen or coniferous trees.
   TREE, DECIDUOUS SHADE. A woody plant that normally grows with one main trunk
and has a canopy that screens and filters the sun in the summer months.
   TREE, EVERGREEN OR CONIFEROUS. A tree species with foliage that persists and
remains green year-round.
   TWIN HOMES. A two-family dwelling which has a common wall and is platted
into two separate lots.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. Land area and facilities specifically designated and
developed for recreational or social activities of individuals or groups
excluding required setback areas, in addition to those areas and facilities
designated and developed for the private use of residents of individual
dwelling units.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereof is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes intended, designed, or arranged to be used or
occupied.
   UTILITY. All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution,
collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, gas,
power, information, telecommunication and telephone cable, and includes
facilities for the generation of electricity.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is or may be used, in whole
or in part, to facilitate telecommunications, electric, distribution, lighting,
traffic control, signage, or to carry lines, cables, or other similar function
or for location or collocation of small cell facilities. Such term does not
include a SCF support structure.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area, and size of structure (provided the requirements are not
specified standards for said structure or use), or size of yards and open
spaces; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be
allowed by variance nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of
non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning
district.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A commercial activity catering to the medical needs of
animals and having no outside runs or areas of outdoor animal confinement.
   WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, manure, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage or dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to
permits under Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as
amended to January 1, 1986, or source, special nuclear or by-product materials
as defined by the Atomic Energy act of 1954, as amended.
   WETLANDS. Any area where ground water is at or near the surface at least six
months of the year, the boundary of which shall be defined as that area where
the emergent aquatic vegetation ceases and the surrounding upland vegetation
begins.
   WHOLESALE MERCHANDISING/TRADE. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial,
commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above ground or underground wireline facility
used to transport communications data from a wireless facility network
interface device to a network.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
services between user equipment and a communications network including
equipment associated with wireless communications, radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cable located on a utility pole or SCF support
structure or immediately adjacent to the utility pole or SCF support structure
or directly associated with equipment located on the utility pole or SCF
support structure, regular and backup power supplies and rectifiers, and
comparable equipment regardless of technological configuration. The term
includes SCFs but does not include the structure or improvements on, under, or
within which the equipment is collocated, or wireline backhaul facilities.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person that builds or installs wireless
facilities or utility poles or SCF support structures but not a wireless
provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless service
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum
including the use of WiFi, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to
the public.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings
which open space lies between the building or group of buildings and the
nearest lot line. Also referred to as: required yard or setback.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between the side lot lines across the front of
a lot adjoining a public right-of-way. Depth of required FRONT YARDS shall be
measured at right angles to a straight line adjoining the foremost points of
the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of
rounded property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the
point at which the side and front lot lines would have met without such
rounding. Front and rear front yard lines shall be parallel.
      (1)   Primary front yard. Any front yard adjacent to the street which is
used as principal access for the lot. Unless otherwise differentiated, for the
purposes of measuring required setbacks the phrases FRONT YARD or REQUIRED
FRONT YARD refer to the primary front yard.
      (2)   Secondary front yard. On a lot with more than one frontage, any
front yard adjacent to a street which is not used as principal access for the
lot. Unless otherwise specified, for the purposes of measuring required
setbacks, the minimum setback for all secondary front yards shall equal one-
half the required setback for a primary front yard.
   YARD, REAR. A yard across the whole width of the lot extending from the rear
line of the building to the rear line of the lot. In the case of through lots
and corner lots, there will be no REAR YARDS but only front and side yards.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the adjacent sideline of the lot
which separates it from another lot and extends from the front lot line to the
rear yard. In the case of through lots and corner lots, SIDE YARDS remaining
after the full and half-depth front yards have been established shall be
considered SIDE YARDS.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that the
side of a building rests on a lot line.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A section of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of land, the construction and use of buildings, and the occupancy of
premises are hereby made.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 609, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.002 TITLE AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and referred to as “The Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Flandreau, South Dakota”.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
territory within the boundaries of the city as established on the Official
Zoning Map of the city.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Zoning Ordinance is enacted for the purpose set forth and
provided for in SDCL Chs. 11-4 and 11-6 that is to promote the general welfare
of the population through sound policies of land development and land
management and to preserve natural beauty and ecological balance. To this end,
this chapter will prevent overcrowding of the land with population and
structures and provide for adequate sanitation, transportation, and other
community facilities. This chapter has been prepared in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan for the city and is designed to coordinate physical
development of the community with needs for public services and facilities.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of this chapter is to place the power and
responsibility of the use of land in the hands of the property owner contingent
upon the compatibility of surrounding uses and the comprehensive land use plan.
   (C)   To foster a harmonious, convenient, workable relationship among land
uses.
   (D)   To promote the stability of existing land uses that conform with the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and to protect them from inharmonious influences
and harmful intrusions.
   (E)   To ensure that public and private lands ultimately are used for the
purposes which are most appropriate and most beneficial from the standpoint of
the community as a whole.
   (F)   To prevent excessive population densities and overcrowding of the land
with structures.
   (G)   To facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities and
institutions.
   (H)   To protect and enhance real estate values.
   (I)   To safeguard and enhance the appearance of the community, including
natural amenities.
   (J)   To regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and bulk of
building and other structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied; the
size of yards, courts, and other open spaces; and the location and use of other
purposes.
   (K)   To regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, and use of building, structures, and land.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.004 DECLARED MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this
chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the most
restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.005 SEPARABILITY CLAUSE AND CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Separability clause. Should the courts declare any section or
provision of this chapter unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
   (B)   Repeal of conflicting ordinances. All ordinances or part of ordinances
in conflict with this chapter or inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter are repealed entirely. Specifically, Ordinance 476 and all amendments
thereto is repealed.
   (C)   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its
approval, publication, and effective date according to South Dakota Codified
Law.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.006 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Official Zoning Map. The city is hereby divided into zones, or
districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
      (1)    The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor attested by the City Finance Officer under the following words: “This
is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Chapter 1.03
of Ordinance Number 622 of the City of Flandreau, State of South Dakota,”,
summarized and adopted in this chapter, together with the date of the adoption
of this chapter. The Official Zoning Map shall be on file at the office of the
City Finance Officer.
      (2)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter
11-4 as amended, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall not become effective
until after said changes have been made on the Official Zoning Map by the City
Finance Officer or, in his or her absence, a person designated by the City
Council. Any unauthorized change by any person or persons shall be considered a
violation of this chapter and punishable as provided under §
155.999.
      (3)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official
Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official
Zoning Map, which shall be located in the city offices, shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings,
and other structures in the city.
   (B)   Rules where map designation uncertain. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the various zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map,
the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, highways,
rights-of-way, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, lot lines, property lines,
quarter-section lines, half-section lines, or full-section lines unless
otherwise shown.
      (2)   Where the designation on the Official Zoning Map indicates the
various districts are approximately bounded by lot lines, the lot lines shall
be the boundaries of such districts unless boundaries are otherwise indicated
on the map.
      (3)   In subdivided property, the zoning district boundary line on the
Official Zoning Map may be determined by use of the scale contained on the map.
   (C)   Annexation. Subsequent of the effective date of these regulations, any
land annexed into the municipal boundaries of the city shall be automatically
placed into the A, Agricultural District, unless and until such time as the
area is rezoned by amendment of these regulations by ordinance, as provided for
in §
155.183 of these regulations.
   (D)   Changes and/or replacement of Official Zoning Map. In the event that
the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, the City Council may,
by ordinance, adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior
Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor attested by the City Finance Officer and bear the seal
of the city under the following words: “This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of
adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Flandreau, State of South Dakota.” Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has
been lost or totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof
remaining shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to
its adoption or amendment.
   (E)   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes difficult to
interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City
Council may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map, which shall
supercede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may
correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map,
but no such corrections shall have the effect of amending the original Official
Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
   (F)   Changes to the Official Zoning Map shall require amendment of this
regulation by ordinance, as provided for in §
155.183 of these regulations.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.007 RESERVED.
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   The district regulations included in this subchapter may be qualified
or supplemented by additional regulations appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Any use or uses not expressly permitted in a particular district shall
be prohibited unless such uses are existing at the effective date of these
regulations and qualify as non-conforming uses. Deviation from zoning district
lot, yard, and related requirements and city-wide zoning regulations, shall be
prohibited unless a variance is granted as provided for in §
155.182 of these regulations.
   (C)    The Board of Adjustment may establish additional requirements and
standards for uses and structures permitted by a conditional use permit as
conditions to said conditional use permit in accordance with §
155.180.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.021 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth by this subchapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.022 GENERAL COMPLIANCE.
   No building or any part thereof shall hereafter be used or occupied; no
building or any part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
converted, altered, enlarged, extended, raised, moved, or used; and no premises
shall be used for any purpose other than a purpose permitted in the district in
which said building or premises is located except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.023 CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF STRUCTURES AND LOTS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height or bulk;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required; and/or
      (5)   In any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)    No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension at or below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.024 INTENT OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Within the districts established in this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures,
and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms
of this chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this chapter to permit
these non-conformities to continue until they are removed but not to encourage
their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conformities,
with the exception of nonstandard uses, shall not be enlarged upon, expanded,
or extended nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses are declared to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the districts involved. With the exception of nonstandard uses, a non-
conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land, or a non-
conforming use of structure and land in combination shall not be extended or
enlarged after passage of this chapter by the addition of other uses or a
nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance. Where excavation or demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to
rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be
actual construction provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.025 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE OF NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 10% of the current replacement
cost of the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of the structure
as the case may be provided that the cubic content existing when it became non-
conforming shall not be increased. If a non-conforming structure or portion of
a structure containing a non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or
unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance and is declared by any duly
authorized official to be unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition,
it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.026 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   A lawful use or structure existing at the time this chapter is adopted or
amended may continue even though such use does not conform to the district
regulations subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Whenever a non-conforming use or structure has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not be changed back to a non-conforming use.
   (B)   If any non-conforming building is destroyed or damaged by any
casualty, such building may be repaired or replaced and use continued provided
said reconstruction shall not add to the non-conformity or add to the cubic
contents of said building as the same existed at the time of such casualty and
provided further that such repair or reconstruction of such building shall
begin within six months after such casualty and completed within a reasonable
time thereafter. However, if the damage caused by such casualty is such as to
cause a loss in value exceeding 50% of the replacement value immediately prior
to such casualty, it cannot be rebuilt for a non-conforming use. The loss in
value shall be computed as the difference between the actual cash value of the
structure immediately before and after the casualty. Cash value shall be the
same as that used for insurance purposes as approved by the state’s Insurance
Code, being SDCL Title 58.
   (C)   When a non-conforming use or structure is discontinued for a period of
one year, it shall not be continued unless in conformance with the requirements
of this section and SDCL § 11-6-39.
   (D)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
structure which was arranged or designed for such use previous to the adoption
of this chapter but shall not be extended outside each structure.
   (E)   No existing non-conforming use or structure shall be enlarged, moved,
or structurally altered except to change to a permitted use. This is not to
include normal repairs and maintenance which do not enlarge, move, or
structurally alter a non-conforming use.
   (F)   Type I and type II manufactured homes located upon any lot or lots of
record at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be replaced by type I
and/or type II manufactured homes of like dimensions, and said replacement
shall not be deemed to have changed the use thereof from a non- conforming to a
conforming use. If a replacement type I and/or type II manufactured home is of
larger dimension than the existing type I and/or type II manufactured home, the
application must first be made to the Board of Adjustment for a Conditional Use
Permit.
   (G)   NON-CONFORMING LAND USE shall include non-conforming manufactured home
courts existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter, and the
substitution or replacement of type I and type II manufactured homes to said
manufactured home court shall not be deemed to have changed the use thereof
from a non-conforming to a conforming use.
   (H)   Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to abridge
or curtail the powers of the City Planning Commission, City Council and/or
Board of Adjustment as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   (I)   Nonstandard uses existing immediately prior to the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, although such uses do not conform to the
provisions hereof. Nonstandard buildings or structures may be enlarged or
extended, converted, reconstructed, or structurally altered as follows:
      (1)   The Administrative Official may allow the structural alteration,
addition (enlargement or extension) of a non-standard structure provided such
alteration(s) or addition(s) will be erected no closer to the lot line than the
existing building’s current non-conforming setback and the addition shall
further conform to all other ordinance requirements. (See Figure 155.026
below.)
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment structural alteration, addition
(enlargement or extension) of a non-standard structure provided such alteration
(s) or addition(s) conforms to all other ordinance requirements. (See Figure
155.026 below.)
Figure 155.026
Example of Addition to a Non-Standard Structure
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1576.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-6-39
§ 155.027 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORDS.
   (A)    In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record after the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter. Such lots must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership.
   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements of area and/or width that are generally applicable in the district
provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these applying to
area and/or width of the lot shall conform to the regulations of the district
in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained
only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter and all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements established for lot width and area, the land involved shall be
considered an undivided parcel for the purposes of this subchapter, and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established nor shall any
division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the
requirements in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.028 USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the
terms of this subchapter, other than a change through Board of Adjustment
action from a non-conforming use to another use not generally permitted in the
district shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in such district but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.029 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The following zone and use districts are hereby established for the purposes
of administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (A)   A, Agricultural District. The purpose of the A, Agricultural District
is to preserve open space and land currently used for agricultural purposes.
This land is considered not yet ready for further development until the
installation of drainage works, streets, utilities, and community facilities
and until objective projections of appropriate land uses are possible and may
further be subject to periodic flooding.
   (B)   C1, Central Commercial District. The purpose of the C1, Central
Commercial District is to provide commercial areas for business establishments
serving the needs of trade area residents. Permitted uses are intended to
create a strong central business district, free from conflicting land uses,
which is the focal point of trade area retail sales, personnel, business and
professional services, governmental and cultural activities.
   (C)   FP, Flood Plain District. The purpose of the FP, Flood Plain District
is to protect from encroachment in watershed areas subject to flooding,
backwater spreading, and flood water or overflow of streams or rivers. The FP,
Flood Plain District is an overlay district, imposing special regulations on
the properties that fall within this overlay district without abrogating the
requirements imposed by the underlying land use district regulations.
   (D)   HC, Highway Commercial District. The purpose of the HC, Highway
Commercial District is to accommodate those industrial uses able to meet
performance standards and those commercial uses which need larger lot area or
are not compatible with the Central Commercial District.
   (E)   I, Industrial District. The purpose of the I, Industrial District is
to provide space for a wide range of industrial uses and structures and for
certain commercial uses. Regulations are intended to provide guidelines for
locating activities which may be injurious or offensive to occupants of
adjacent areas, or which emit odors, fumes or gases, dust, smoke, noise, or
vibrations which are evident beyond the property of such uses.
   (F)   R1, Single-Family Residential District. The purpose of the R1, Single-
Family Residential District is to provide locations for low-density residential
dwellings. Restrictions and requirements are intended to preserve and protect
the residential character by preventing incompatible land uses.
   (G)   R2, General Residential District. The purpose of the R2, General
Residential District is to provide a stable environment for the development of
two-family and multiple-family dwelling units free from incompatible land uses.
   (H)   R3, Combined Residential District. The purpose of the R3, Combined
Residential district is to permit a broad variety of housing types with an
emphasis of the development of a single-family residential manufactured home
park located in an appropriate environment.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
A, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.040 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the A, Agricultural
District:
   (A)   Any form of agriculture activity and related farm buildings excluding
feed lots;
   (B)   Site-built single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Modular homes;
   (D)   Public parks and recreation areas; and
   (E)   Essential public utilities and services.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.041 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the A,
Agricultural District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses, special permitted uses, conditional uses when established within the
space limits of this district (see §
155.232);
   (B)   Roadside stands for sales of agricultural products grown or produced
on the premises;
   (C)   Signs conforming to §
155.260; and
   (D)   Home occupations subject to §
155.320 .
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.042 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the A,
Agricultural District by the Board of Adjustment subject to such requirements
as the Board deems necessary to protect adjacent property, prevent
objectionable or offensive conditions, and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare:
      (1)   Airports;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Commercial or private recreation areas not normally accommodated in
commercial areas such as golf courses, campgrounds, drive-in theaters, riding
stables, race tracks, swimming pools, and the like;
      (4)   Private clubs;
      (5)   Stables;
      (6)    Type I and type II manufactured homes subject to §
155.089;
      (7)   Commercial stables and/or commercial kennels with outside runs;
      (8)   Public buildings or facilities erected or established and operated
by any governmental agency;
      (9)   Telecommunication facilities;
      (10)   Extended home occupations subject to §
155.320 ;
      (11)   Utility substations;
      (12)   Veterinarian offices and animal hospitals;
      (13)   Nurseries and greenhouses;
      (14)   Horticultural services; and
      (15)   Intermodal shipping/storage containers.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.043 SPECIAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted Special Permitted Uses
in the A, Agricultural District.
   (A)   Shop-style dwellings subject to §
155.350.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.044 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Uses, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
A, Agricultural District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.045 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables:
Table 155.045.1
 
                Minimum Lot   Minimum Lot     Maximu m Height Maximum Percent
                Area          Width                           Lot Coverage
Single Family
Residential/
Type I & II     43,560 square 150'            35'             10%
Manufactured    feet
Home/Modular
Home
Towers or                                     75'             NA
Steeples
Other Principal To be determined by the Board
buildings       of Adjustment                 45'             10%
excluding tower
or steeple
Other Permitted
Uses/           To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Conditional
Uses
Table 155.045.2
 
               Minimum Front Yard % Minimum Rear Minimum Side Yard %*#
               Primary* Secondary*  Yard %*#     Party Wall Side Non-Party Wall
                                                                 Side
SYMBOL
Permitted Uses 75'      37.5'       50'          30'
Other
Permitted
Uses/          To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Conditional
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards includes an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
%   For the purpose of this chapter a porch and overhang shall be deemed to be
part of said building except as provided for by §
155.001, Definitions “Yard, Front.”
#   Accessory structures may be placed no closer than ten feet of an alley.
Exception §
155.232(L).
Figure 155.045.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1582.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
R1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.055 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the R1, Single-
Family Residential District:
   (A)   Site-built, single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Modular homes;
   (C)   Public parks and recreation areas;
   (D)    Essential public utilities and services required by the resident
population;
   (E)   Churches and parish houses; and
   (F)   Public and private schools.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.056 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the R1,
Single-Family Residential District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses, special permitted uses, or conditional uses, except stables, when
established within the space limits of this district (See §
155.232);
   (B)   Signs subject to §
155.260; and
   (C)   Home occupations subject to §
155.320 .
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.057 SPECIAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted as a special permitted
use in the R1, Single- Family Residential District.
   (A)   Reserved.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.058 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the R1,
Single-Family Residential District by the Board of Adjustment and subject to
such requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect adjacent property,
prevent objectionable or offensive conditions, and promote the health, safety,
and general welfare:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments subject to §
155.330;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Extended home occupations subject to §
155.320 ;
      (4)   Offices of recognized professions provided such profession is
carried on in their respective residence and there is no display nor
advertising except one sign, not exceeding one square-foot in area, non-
illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (5)   Public buildings or facilities established and operated by any
governmental agency;
      (6)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged;
      (7)   Licensed commercial day care facilities not operated at a
residence;
      (8)   Utility substations;
      (9)   A shelter for battered women and children or who are otherwise
adversely affected by domestic abuse which may also serve as a food pantry for
the needy;
      (10)   Telecommunication facilities; and
      (11)   In-home nursing or convalescent homes with up to four additional
residents other than immediate family.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.059 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Uses, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
R1, Single-Family Residential District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.060 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures:
Table 155.060.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Single Family    9,750 square
Residential/     feet             75'         35'            35%
Modular Home
Two Dwelling     6,000 square
Units (A)        feet/dwelling    100'        35'            40%
                 unit
Assisted Living, 2,000 square
Nursing and Rest feet/dwelling    60'         35'            40%
Homes, etc.      unit
Churches and
other religious
institutions     30,000 square    75'         35'*           30%
established      feet
after January 1,
2024
Other Permitted
Uses/Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
(A)   At the time of construction, lot area and width shall comply with these
requirements. In order to obtain future building permits for replacement,
additions, expansions, etc., each respective unit shall maintain the minimum
lot area and lot width for single-family residences after subdivision of
individually owned units. Where individually owned, attached single-family
units (i.e., condominium, townhouse, duplex, etc.) are constructed, minimum lot
area, width, and coverage are calculated on the basis of the lot upon which the
shared structure is constructed.
*   Maximum height for steeples and towers shall be 75 feet.
Table 155.060.2
 Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Yard*# Minimum Side Yard*
 Primary Secondary**                      Party Wall Side Non-Party Wall Side
               Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Minimum Side Yard*
               Primary Secondary**  Yard*#       Party Wall Side Non-Party Wall
                                                                 Side
SYMBOL
Single Family
Residential/
Type I         25'     12.5'        20'          9'
Manufactured
Home/Modular
Home
Two Dwelling   25'     12.5'        20'          0'              9'
Units (A)
Hospitals,
convalescent
and nursing
homes,
supervised     50'     25'          30'          0'              25'
care
facilities and
congregate
housing
Churches and
other
religious
institutions   50'     25'          25'          0'              25'
established
after January
1, 2024
Other
Permitted
Uses/          To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Conditional
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards includes an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
%   For the purpose of this chapter a porch and overhang shall be deemed to be
part of said building except as provided for by §
155.001, Definitions “Yard, Front.”
#   Accessory structures may be placed no closer than 10 feet of an alley.
Exception §
155.232(L).
**   When a setback distance greater or lesser than 25 feet has been
established setback distance of has been established in any block, then no
building shall approach nearer than any street line than the general average of
the setback distance as determined by the Administrative Official. At no time
will the setback be less than 12.5 feet.
(A)   Upon subdivision into individual units, two family dwellings will be
allowed one “shared” wall (required yard = zero feet) provided all other yard
requirements are met.
Figure 155.060. 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1586.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-202 4)
R2, GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.070 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the R2, General
Residential District:
   (A)   Site-built, single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings;
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (D)   Type I manufactured homes;
   (E)   Modular homes;
   (F)   Public parks and recreation areas;
   (G)   Churches and parish houses;
   (H)   Public and private schools; and
   (I)   Essential public utilities and services required by the resident
population.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.071 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the R2,
Single-Family Residential District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to Permitted
Uses, Special Permitted Uses, or Conditional Uses, except stables, when
established within the space limits of this district. (See §
155.232.)
   (B)   Signs subject to §
155.260.
   (C)   Home occupations subject to §
155.320 .
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.072 SPECIAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted Special Permitted Use
in R2, General Residential District.
   (A)   Residential chickens in accordance with §
90.080.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.073 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the R2,
General Residential District by the Board of Adjustment and subject to such
requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect adjacent property, prevent
objectionable or offensive conditions, and promote the health, safety and
general welfare:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments subject to §
155.330;
      (2)   Offices of recognized professions provided such profession is
carried on in their respective residence and there is no display nor
advertising except one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-
illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (3)   Public buildings or facilities established and operated by any
governmental agency;
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged;
      (5)   Licensed commercial day care facilities not operated at a
residence;
      (6)   Utility substations;
      (7)   A shelter for battered women and children are who are otherwise
adversely affected by domestic abuse which may also serve as a food pantry for
the needy;
      (8)   Commercial storage buildings used exclusively for storage and not
for performance of any other services;
      (9)   The conversion of an existing single-family residential dwelling
into a two-family or multiple-family dwelling;
      (10)   Type II manufactured home;
      (11)   Extended home occupations, subject to §
155.320 ;
      (12)   Funeral homes;
      (13)   Clinics;
      (14)   In-home nursing or convalescent homes with up to four additional
residents other than immediate family; and
      (15)   Telecommunication facilities.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.074 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as Permitted Uses, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
R2, General Residential District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.075 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures:
Table 155.075.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximu m Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                       Lot Coverage
Single Family
Residential/Type
I & II           6,000 square     50'         35'             35%
Manufactured     feet
Home/Modular
Home
Two Dwelling     6,000 square
Units (A)        feet/dwelling    100'        35'             40%
                 unit
                 12,000 square
Three or more    feet plus 1,000
Dwelling Units   square feet for  100'        45'             40%
(A)              each dwelling
                 unit over two
Assisted Living, 2,000 square
Nursing and Rest feet/dwelling    60'         35'             40%
Homes, etc.      unit
Churches and
other religious
institutions     30,000 square    75'         35'*            30%
established      feet
after January 1,
2024
Other Permitted
Uses/Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
(A)   At the time of construction, lot area and width shall comply with these
requirements. In order to obtain future building permits for replacement,
additions, expansions, etc., each respective unit shall maintain the minimum
lot area and lot width for single-family residences after subdivision of
individually owned units. Where individually owned, attached single-family
units (i.e., condominium, townhouse, duplex, etc.) are constructed, minimum lot
area, width, and coverage are calculated on the basis of the lot upon which the
shared structure is constructed.
*   Maximum height for steeples and towers shall be 75 feet.
Table 155.075.2
 Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Yard*# Minimum Side Yard*
 Primary Secondary**                      Primary Secondary**
                   Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Yard*# Minimum Side Yard*
                   Primary Secondary**                      Primary Secondary**
SYMBOL
Single Family
Residential/Type I 25'     12.5'        20'                 6'
& II Manufactured
Home/Modular Home
Two Dwelling Units 25'     12.5'        25'                 0'      6'
(A)
Three or more      30'     15'          25'                 0'      15'
Dwelling Units
Hospitals,
convalescent and
nursing homes,     50'     25'          25'                 0'      25'
supervised care
facilities and
congregate housing
Churches and other
religious
institutions       50'     25'          25'                 0'      25'
established after
January 1, 2024
Other Permitted
Uses/Conditional   To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards includes an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
%   For the purpose of this chapter a porch and overhang shall be deemed to be
part of said building except as provided for by §
155.001, Definitions “Yard, Front.”
#   Accessory structures may be placed no closer than 10 feet of an alley.
Exception §
155.232(L).
**   When a setback distance greater or lesser than 25 feet has been
established setback distance of has been established in any block, then no
building shall approach nearer than any street line than the general average of
the setback distance as determined by the Administrative Official. At no time
will the setback be less than 12.5 feet.
(A)   Upon subdivision into individual units, two family dwellings will be
allowed one “shared” wall (required yard = zero feet) provided all other yard
requirements are met.
Figure 155.075. 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1590.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-202 4)
R3, RESIDENTIAL COMBINED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.085 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the R3, Combined
Residential District:
   (A)   Site-built, single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Type II manufactured homes;
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Public parks and recreation areas;
   (F)   Churches and parish houses;
   (G)   Public and private schools;
   (H)   Essential public utilities and services required by the resident
population;
   (I)   Two-family dwellings; and
   (J)   Type I manufactured homes.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.086 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the R3,
Combined Residential District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to Permitted
Uses, Special Permitted Uses, or Conditional Uses, except stables, when
established within the space limits of this district (see §
155.232).
   (B)   No part of any manufactured home park shall be used for nonresidential
purposes except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well
being of park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
   (C)   Signs subject to §
155.260.
   (D)   Home occupations (subject to §
155.320 ).
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.087 SPECIAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted Special Permitted Uses
in the R3, Combined Residential District.
   (A)   Residential chickens in accordance with §
90.080.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.088 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the R3,
Combined District by the Board of Adjustment and subject to such requirements
as the Board seems necessary to protect adjacent property, prevent
objectionable or offensive conditions, and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare:
      (1)   Manufactured home park developments;
      (2)   Manufactured home subdivisions;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast establishments subject to §
155.330;
      (4)   Offices of recognized professions provided such profession is
carried on in their respective residence and there is no display nor
advertising except one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-
illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (5)   Public buildings or facilities established and operated by any
governmental agency;
      (6)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged;
      (7)   Licensed commercial day care facilities not operated at a
residence;
      (8)   Utility substations;
      (9)   A shelter for battered women and children or who are otherwise
adversely affected by domestic abuse which may also serve as a food pantry for
the needy;
      (10)   Commercial storage buildings used exclusively for storage and not
for performance of any other services;
      (11)   The conversion of an existing single-family residential dwelling
into a two-family or multiple-family dwelling;
      (12)   Extended home occupations subject to §
155.320 ;
      (13)   Funeral homes;
      (14)   Clinics; and
      (15)   In-home nursing or convalescent homes with up to four additional
residents other than immediate family.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.089 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Use, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
R3, Combined Residential District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.090 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   Manufactured home parks shall meet the following minimum standards.
   (A)   Streets. Each manufactured home shall abut or face a public or private
roadway or street, such roadway or street having an all-weather surface of at
least 30 feet in width where parking is permitted on both sides and 26 feet in
width where parking is restricted to one side only. Where private streets are
proposed, there shall be a minimum right-of-way of 40 feet.
   (B)   Open space or buffer zone. A landscape buffer area of ten feet in
width shall be provided and maintained around the perimeter of the park except
where walks and drives penetrate the buffer.
   (C)   Lot area. Each lot provided for the occupancy of a single manufactured
home unit shall not be less than 50 feet in width and have an area of not less
than 5,500 square feet, and the same shall be defined by markers at each
corner.
   (D)   Density. No park shall be permitted an average net density of
manufactured home lots of more than seven units per acre, and each park shall
provide an area of not less than two acres.
   (E)   Spacing and yard requirements. All manufactured housing units will be
positioned on the manufactured home space in compliance and accordance with the
zoning requirements at the time of establishment of the manufactured home park.
Manufactured home parks established after the effective date of this subchapter
will comply with the following.
      (1)   Front yard. All manufactured homes shall be located at least 20
feet from any road or street. The distance will be measured from the wall of
the structure to the street or roadway at the closest point. (See §
155.234.)
      (2)   Side and rear yards. All manufactured homes shall have minimum side
yards of seven feet and a minimum rear yard of ten feet. (See §
155.234.)
      (3)   Exceptions to minimum yard requirements. (See also §
155.234.)
         (a)   A garage, canopy, or carport may project into a required side or
rear yard provided it is located no closer than ten feet to another
manufactured home garage, canopy, carport, or addition thereto and provided
further that the maximum depth be 24 feet.
         (b)   A deck may project into a required side or rear yard provided it
is located no closer than four feet to any other structure.
         (c)   An enclosed vestibule containing not more than 40 square feet in
area may project into a required yard for a distance not to exceed four feet
but, in no event, closer than ten feet to another manufactured home, garage,
canopy, carport, or addition thereto.
         (d)   Detached accessory buildings with a projected room area of not
more than 120 square feet may project into a required side or rear yard
provided it is located no closer than four feet to another structure or right-
of-way.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. No manufactured home shall occupy more than
25% of the area of the lot on which it is situated.
   (F)   Parking. Two off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided
for each manufactured home.
      (1)   Such off-street parking spaces shall be set aside in a location
convenient to the occupants of the trailer or camping units and shall have
ingress and egress by means of a public way.
      (2)   Where parking areas are provided adjacent to a public street,
ingress and egress thereto shall be made accessible only through driveways or
openings not exceeding 25 feet in width in the curb line of said street.
   (G)   Refuse collection.
      (1)   One refuse collection station shall be provided with a minimum of
one two-yard dumpster situated on concrete and screened on four sides for each
12 families or fractions thereof.
      (2)   It shall be conveniently located to serve tenants not more than 150
feet from any trailer unit served and be conveniently located for collection.
   (H)   Recreation area. The developer of the manufactured home park shall
dedicate no less than 8% of the gross site area to recreational facilities
appropriate to the needs of the occupants. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall approve the designated recreation area.
   (I)   On-site management.
      (1)   Each manufactured home park shall provide on-site management by the
owner or his or her representative.
      (2)   This requirement may be waived if a point of contact is established
to ensure that the management, repairs, maintenance, and janitorial work
connected with the manufactured home park and all provisions of this subchapter
are complied with.
   (J)   Water supply and distribution system and sewage disposal. Each
manufactured home shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer and water
system.
   (K)   Tie down requirements. All manufactured homes regardless of location,
unless such manufactured homes are securely anchored to a permanent foundation
approved by the Administrative Official, shall be anchored to the ground in
accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications or as prescribed by the TR-
75, issued June 1972 by the U.S. Department of Defense.
   (L)   Maximum age limitation. No manufactured home placed within a
manufactured home park within the city limits may exceed ten years from the
date of manufacture.
   (M)   Expansion. Existing manufactured home parks may be extended to a total
area of no less than two acres provided the area of expansion complies with all
other regulations herein set forth.
   (N)   Building/moved-in building permit required. Whenever a manufactured
home is moved into a manufactured home park, a permit from the Administrative
Official shall be required.
   (O)   Skirting. All manufactured homes regardless of location, unless such
manufactured homes are securely anchored to a permanent foundation approved by
the Administrative Official shall be skirted within 30 days of placement.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.091 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each application for a manufactured home park shall be accompanied by
a Development Plan incorporating the regulations established herein. The plan
shall be drawn to scale and indicate the following:
      (1)   Location and topography of the proposed manufactured home park
including adjacent property owners, proximity to federal and state highways,
and county, township, and city roads/streets;
      (2)   Property lines and square footage of the proposed park;
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all easements and rights-of way;
      (4)   Proposed general layout including parking and recreation areas;
      (5)   General street and pedestrian walkway plan; and
      (6)   General utility, water, and sewer plan.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the plan becomes part of the
permanent record, and it shall serve as the basis for the final site plan
submission.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.092 MANUFACTURED HOUSING SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit subdividing
an approved manufactured home park development into individual owner-occupied
lots.
   (B)   However, any such development shall be required to meet the
subdivision regulations of the city.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.093 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures.
   (B)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements for manufactured home parks shall be regulated in
accordance with §
155.089.
Table 155.093.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximu m Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                       Lot Coverage
Single Family
Residential/Type
I & II           6,000 square     50'         35'             35%
Manufactured     feet
Home/Modular
Home
Two Dwelling     6,000 square
Units (A)        feet/dwelling    100'        35'             40%
                 unit
                 12,000 plus
Three or more    1,000 square
Dwelling Units   feet for each    100'        45'             40%
(A)              dwelling unit
                 over two
Assisted Living, 2,000 square
Nursing and Rest feet/dwelling    60'         35'             40%
Homes, etc.      unit
Churches and
other religious
institutions     30,000 square    75'         35'*            30%
established      feet
after January 1,
2024
Other Permitted
Uses/Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
(A)   At the time of construction, lot area and width shall comply with these
requirements. In order to obtain future building permits for replacement,
additions, expansions, etc., each respective unit shall maintain the minimum
lot area and lot width for single-family residences after subdivision of
individually owned units. Where individually owned, attached single-family
units (i.e., condominium, townhouse, duplex, etc.) are constructed, minimum lot
area, width, and coverage are calculated on the basis of the lot upon which the
shared structure is constructed.
*   Maximum height for steeples and towers shall be 75 feet.
Table 155.093.2
 Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Yard*# Minimum Side Yard*
 Primary Secondary**                      Primary Secondary**
                   Minimum Front Yard*% Minimum Rear Yard*# Minimum Side Yard*
                   Primary Secondary**                      Primary Secondary**
SYMBOL
Single Family
Residential/Type I 25'     12.5'        20'                 6'
Manufactured Home/
Modular Home
Two Dwelling Units 25'     12.5'        10'                 0'      0'
(A)
Three or more      30'     15'          25'                 0'      0'
Dwelling Units
Hospitals,
convalescent and
nursing homes,     50'     25'          30'                 0'      0'
supervised care
facilities and
congregate housing
Churches and other
religious
institutions       50'     25'          25'                 0'      0'
established after
January 1, 2024
Other Permitted
Uses/Conditional   To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards includes an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
%   For the purpose of this chapter a porch and overhang shall be deemed to be
part of said building except as provided for by §
155.001, Definitions “Yard, Front.”
#   Accessory structures may be placed no closer than 10 feet of an alley.
Exception §
155.232(L).
**   When a setback distance greater or lesser than 25 feet has been
established setback distance of has been established in any block, then no
building shall approach nearer than any street line than the general average of
the setback distance as determined by the Administrative Official. At no time
will the setback be less than 12.5 feet.
(A)   Upon subdivision into individual units, two family dwellings will be
allowed one “shared” wall (required yard = zero feet) provided all other yard
requirements are met.
Figure 155.093. 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1596.png]
 
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-202 4)
C1, CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.105 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the C1, Central
Commercial District:
   (A)   Retail and wholesale sales;
   (B)   Finance, insurance, and real estate services;
   (C)   Business services excluding any warehousing and storage services;
   (D)   Churches, welfare, and charitable services; business associations,
professional membership organizations, labor unions, and similar labor
organizations; and civic, social, and fraternal associations;
   (E)   Eating establishments;
   (F)    Essential public utilities and services required by the resident
population;
   (G)   Public buildings and grounds;
   (H)   Personal service establishments;
   (I)   Professional, governmental, and education services;
   (J)   Museum;
   (K)   Printing and publishing establishments;
   (L)   Offices;
   (M)   Parking lot and/or parking garages;
   (N)   Bed and breakfast subject to §
155.330;
   (O)   Hotels and/or motels;
   (P)   Indoor commercial recreation facility; and
   (Q)   Theaters.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.106 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the C1,
Central Commercial District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses, special permitted uses, or conditional uses when established within the
space limits of this district (see §
155.232); and
   (B)   Signs subject to §
155.260.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.107 SPECIAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted as a Special Permitted
Use in the C1, Central Commercial District.
   (A)   Reserved.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.108 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the C1, Central
Commercial District by the Board of Adjustment and subject to such requirements
as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare:
   (A)   Bar or tavern;
   (B)   Licensed day care centers;
   (C)   On-sale and off-sale liquor establishments;
   (D)   Lumberyards;
   (E)   Public garages and automobile service stations;
   (F)   Car washes provided that their operative machinery is within an
enclosed structure and adequate drainage is provided;
   (G)   Apartments;
   (H)   Telecommunication facilities;
   (I)   Site-built, single-family dwellings;
   (J)   Caretaker/Watchperson’s quarters subject to §
155.245; and
   (K)   Private and commercial storage buildings used exclusively for storage
and not for performance of any other services.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 595, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 609, passed 5-16-2022;
Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.109 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Use, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
C1, Central Commercial District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.110 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures:
Table 155.110.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Permitted Uses   3,500 square     25'         35'            90%
                 feet
Conditional Uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Table 155.110.2
 
                 Minimum Front Yard*$ Minimum Rear Yard*#$ Minimum Side Yard*#$
SYMBOL
Permitted Uses   0' 25'               0' 20'               0' 7'
Conditional Uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards to include an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
#   Rear and side yards shall be landscaped or fenced in a suitable manner to
buffer residential uses.
$   No front, rear or side yard requirements for buildings except when lots
adjacent to a residential district.
Figure 155.110.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1600.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
HC, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.120 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the HC, Highway
Commercial District:
   (A)   Horticulture and the raising of field crops;
   (B)   Public garages, automobile repair shops, and automobile service
stations;
   (C)   Essential public utilities and services;
   (D)   Utility substations;
   (E)   Wholesale or retail sales of: lumber and other building or
construction materials, farm equipment, and farm and garden supplies;
manufactured homes and trailers; fuel, marine crafts, motor vehicles, and
automobile equipment; drugs, chemicals, and all allied products; dry goods and
apparel; groceries, ice, and related products; electrical goods, hardware, and
plumbing and heating equipment and supplies; machinery equipment and supplies;
beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages; paper and paper products;
furniture and home furnishings; firearm equipment and supplies;
   (F)   Clinics;
   (G)   Funeral home;
   (H)   Contract construction services with shop and/or yard;
   (I)   Eating establishments;
   (J)   Truck or bus terminals;
   (K)   Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouse;
   (L)   Hotels and/or motels;
   (M)   Car washes provided that their operative machinery is within an
enclosed structure and adequate drainage is provided;
   (N)   Offices;
   (O)   Finance, insurance, and real estate services;
   (P)   Convenience stores;
   (Q)   Professional, governmental and education services;
   (R)   Personal services;
   (S)   Bar/tavern and/or on-sale/off-sale liquor sales establishment; and
   (T)   Private and commercial storage buildings used exclusively for storage
and not for performance of any other services.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.121 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the HC,
Highway Commercial District:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses, special permitted uses, or conditional uses when established within the
space limits of this district (see §
155.232); and
   (B)   Signs subject to §
155.260.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.122 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the HC, Highway
Commercial District by the City Board of Adjustment and subject to such
requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare:
   (A)   Food lockers provided that any slaughtering, killing, eviscerating,
skinning, or plucking be done indoors;
   (B)    Churches;
   (C) Caretaker/Watchperson’s quarters subject to §
155.245;
   (D)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
155.380);
   (E)   Apartments;
   (F)   Bulk fuel or storage of petroleum products for wholesale;
   (G)   Adult uses; and
   (H)   Telecommunication facilities.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 609, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.123 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Use, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
HC, Highway Commercial District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.124 LOT, YARD, AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
      (A)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures.
   (B)   Screening. Where any use in the HC, Highway Commercial District is
adjacent to any residential zone, that use (building, parking or storage) shall
be appropriately screened from the Residential Use District by plantings or
fencing, except where plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict with §
155.230.
Table 155.124.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Permitted Uses   20,000 square    100'        45'            75%
                 feet
Conditional Uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Table 155.124.2
 
            Minimum Front Yard*#    Minimum Rear Yard*#     Minimum Side Yard*#
            Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to
            Industrial, (shared     Industrial, (shared     Industrial, (shared
            Ag, or      with)       Ag, or      with)       Ag, or      with)
            Commercial  Residential Commercial  Residential Commercial  Residential
            Districts   Districts   Districts   Districts   Districts   Districts
SYMBOL
Permitted   25'         40'         20'         40'         10'         40'
Uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards to include an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
#   Rear and side yards shall be landscaped or fenced in a suitable manner to
buffer residential uses.
Figure 155.124.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1604.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
I, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.135 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the I, Industrial
District:
   (A)   Horticulture and the raising of field crops;
   (B)   Essential public utilities and services;
   (C)   Utility substations;
   (D)   Motor freight terminals, garaging, and equipment maintenance;
   (E)   Contract construction services with shop and/or yard;
   (F)   Storage plants, lumber yards, distributing stations, and warehouses;
   (G)   Light manufacturing and assembly work, machine shops doing assembling
or shaping, and light cutting and sampling;
   (H)   Woodworking shops or plants;
   (I)   Private and commercial storage buildings used exclusively for storage
and not for performance of any other services;
   (J)   Automotive body repair; and
   (K)   Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouse.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.136 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the I,
Industrial District:
   (A)   Caretaker and watchperson’s quarters subject to §
155.245; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses, special permitted uses, or conditional uses when established within the
space limits of this district shall be permitted in the I, Industrial
Commercial District (see §
155.232); and
   (C)   Signs subject to §
155.260.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.137 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as a conditional use in the I,
Industrial District by the Board of Adjustment and subject to such requirements
as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the health, safety, and
general welfare:
   (A)    Junk or salvage yards provided that the area is enclosed or screened
from public view;
   (B)   Slaughterhouses;
   (C)   Explosive manufacture or storage;
   (D)   Fertilizer manufacture;
   (E)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, fat, or refuse;
   (F)    Livestock sales or auction barns and yards;
   (G)   Grain storage facilities;
   (H)   Crematory;
   (I)   Telecommunication facilities;
   (J)   Adult uses;
   (K)   Cannabis dispensary;
   (L)   Cannabis product manufacturing facility; and
   (M)   Cannabis cultivation facility.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.138 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a Permitted Use, Special
Permitted Use, Accessory Use, or by Conditional Use shall be prohibited in the
I, Industrial District.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.139 LOT, YARD, HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS AND SCREENING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Outdoor storage and screening. Where any use in the I, Industrial
District is adjacent to any Residential Zone, that use (building, parking, or
storage) shall be appropriately screened from the Residential Use District by
plantings or fencing, except where plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict
with §
155.230.
      (1)   All outdoor storage within 500 feet of a Residential District must
be completely enclosed in a building or by a solid walled fence at least two
feet above the highest point of the stockpile which fence shall be maintained
in safe and good repair;
      (2)   Storage yards for junk shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from
any adjoining street line and 35 feet from any other property line, and shall
be screened by a solid wall at least two feet above the highest stockpile and
maintained in a state of good repair. Further provided, that no storage yard
for junk shall be allowed on any lot in an I Zone that is within 500 feet of a
residential zone.
   (B)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables and figures:
Table 155.139.1
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Permitted Uses   30,000 square    150'        45'            50%
                 feet
Conditional Uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Table 155.139.2
 
            Minimum Front Minimum Rear Yard*#       Minimum Side Yard*#
            Yard*#
            Adjacent to   Adjacent to Adjacent to   Adjacent to Adjacent to
            Industrial,   Industrial, (shared with) Industrial, (shared with)
            Ag, or        Ag, or      Residential   Ag, or      Residential
            Commercial    Commerci al Districts     Commerci al Districts
            Districts     Districts                 Districts
SYMBOL
Permitted   50'           25'         35'           10'         35'
Uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Uses
*   To be measured from the wall line. The setback requirements on all required
yards to include an allowable overhang of 24 inches or less.
#   Rear and side yards shall be landscaped or fenced in a suitable manner to
buffer residential uses.
Figure 155.139. 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1606.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-202 4)
§ 155.140 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Noise. All noise shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable due to
intermittence, beat, frequency, or shrillness.
   (B)   Air pollution. State emission standards shall be met by all possible
sources of air pollution. In any case, there shall not be discharged from any
sources whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants, smoke or detriment, or
nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to the public in
general to endanger the comfort, health, or safety of any such considerable
number of persons or have a natural tendency to cause injury or damage to
business, vegetation, or property.
   (C)   Odor. The emission of odorous matter in such quantities as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines or to produce a public nuisance
or hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
   (D)   Glare, heat, or radiation. Every use shall be so operated that there
is no emission or heat, glare, or radiation visible or discernable beyond the
property line.
   (E)   Vibration. Every use shall be so operated that the ground vibration
inherently and recurrently generated is not perceptible without instruments at
any point on the property line.
   (F)   Sewage and liquid wastes. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, watercourse, river, or the ground of
liquid wastes of any radioactive nature or liquid wastes of chemical nature
which are detrimental to normal sewage plant operations or corrosive or
damaging to sewer pipes and installations.
   (G)   Fire hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity or use
shall be handled in conformance with the standard of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters and any additional regulations that may from time to time be
adopted by the City Council.
   (H)   Physical appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except that new or operable equipment and waste materials
stored in enclosed containers not readily visible from the street may be
displayed or stored in the open.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
FP, FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT
§ 155.155 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS OF
REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization.
      (1)   The Legislature of the State of South Dakota has in SDCL Ch. 11-
4 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt land use
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry through flood plain and land use regulation. Therefore, the
City Council of the City of Flandreau, South Dakota, ordains as follows:
      The City of Flandreau elects to comply with the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security, and the City of Flandreau's community officials have
elected to join the program, participate and enforce these flood damage
prevention regulations to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) by FEMA on the community's effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM),
if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of
flooding in such areas.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Flandreau are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Flandreau.
      (2)   These potential flood losses are caused by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause
an increase in flood heights and velocities;
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not
account for the increased flood risk.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of these regulations to
promote the public health safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions to specific areas by provisions
designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public expenditures flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purpose,
these regulations includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in times
of flooding, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
flood waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.156 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions in §
155.001 of this chapter, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases
used in §
155.156 shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common
usage and to give these regulations its most reasonable application. The
definitions contained in §
155.156 shall supersede the definitions in §
155.001 of these regulations only in the interpretation of this subchapter. In
all other cases where these definitions conflict with the definitions in §
155.001, the definitions in §
155.001 shall apply.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one-percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (one-percent-annual-
chance flood). The terms “100-hundred-year flood” and "one-percent-annual-
chance flood" are synonymous. The term does not imply that the flood will
necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance
requirements may apply.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to
the occurrence of a one-percent-annual-chance flood.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-
chance flood). The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every 500 years and mandatory flood insurance requirement generally does
not apply.
   500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to
the occurrence of a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure. Its use is incidental to the use of the principal
structure; the ownership of the accessory structure is the same owner as of the
principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential structure of
low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools,
materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an accessory
structure.
   ADDITION. Any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases
the square footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions
added to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical additions added on
top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform that originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. See ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the one-percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-
conditions hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one-percent or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
that is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After
the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard area, in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one-percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is
refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/
AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the one-percent-
annual-chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level
expected to be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in
the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown
on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a one-percent chance of equaling or exceeding
that level in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to
grade is not considered a basement.
   BEST AVAILABLE DATA. Existing flood hazard information adopted by a
community and reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS
report; or draft or preliminary flood hazard information supplied by FEMA or
from another source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, state,
other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would
be reasonably used by the community.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest
floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water
loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated
portion of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls
apply only to V or VE Zones.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHANNELIZATION. The artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or
alteration of a stream channel's slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank
restoration may be deemed as channelization.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR). The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments
and agencies of the Federal Government.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter
does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as
proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). FEMA's comment
on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective
map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be removed
from the floodplain.
   CRAWLSPACE. An under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished
or not) no more than four feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher
floor elevation, designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility or building where even a slight chance of
flooding is too great a threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals,
fire stations, police stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted
living and similar facilities.
   DEED RESTRICTION. Refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of
the property in some respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of
limitations and conditions. For example, they may limit the density of
buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or prevent
buildings from being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
   DETACHED GARAGE. A building that is used solely for storage of materials or
vehicle parking for up to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is
designed or used for habitation or conducting business, or has multiple
stories, then the building is not considered a detached garage under the NFIP.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage either temporary or permanent of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (post and
piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in
Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, an ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood
waters.
   ENCLOSURE. Refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an
elevated building. Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building
access, vehicle parking, and storage.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind,
water, or other natural agents.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Refers to structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January
1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. It may also be referred to as
EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. Refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to
elevate a structure, property, or portion of a property above the natural
elevation of the site, regardless of where the material was obtained from. The
common practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered
material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing
conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood
hazard area is not deemed as fill.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. Means:
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in these regulations and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing
mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a
current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in these regulations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE MANUAL. The document FEMA produces twice a year and is used
to write flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document
contains definitions, policy rates, coverage and limitations, application, and
insurance policy forms.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the SFHAs, and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) or FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination,
evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation, and
determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A community issued permit or document that is
used for any development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the
community. It is used to address the proposed development to ensure compliance
with the community's ordinance.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of
FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, mitigation plans, and
floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD OPENING. An opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows
floodwaters to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA
Technical Bulletin 1.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to reduce the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers,
dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works
are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA
only accredits levees, both private and public, that have been certified by a
professional engineer or firm in which the certification shows that the levee
have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory standards cited in Title
44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44 CFR 65.10).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents. Floodproofing can either be accomplished in the
form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels
that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent
measures applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage
from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A development that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and repair
facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO
Zones, the highest adjacent grade is utilized by comparing the lowest floor
elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade and the depth of the AO Zone.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic reservation programs that have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property's location in relation to the
SFHA. It is usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain when the property or structure
is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA's modification or revision to an entire
or portion of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA's amendment, by letter,
to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property,
portion of property or structure above the BFE.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an
existing structure, it means the lowest point where the structure and ground
touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs, and
basement windows.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of Section 44 CFR 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE; however, a
manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other
datum, to which BFEs shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
   MIXED USE STRUCTURES. Structures with both a business and a residential
component, but where the area used for business is less than 50% of the total
floor area of the structure.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATIONS. Formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of a base flood event.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels
are physically revised and republished.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, creek, etc., which can be intermittent or
perennial.
   SECTION 1316. Refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968, as amended, which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for
any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or local
floodplain management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a
property owner, and remains with the property even after a change of ownership.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes in this subchapter, a walled
and roofed building, culvert, bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that
is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE, for
insurance purposes and this subchapter, means:
      (1)   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, which is affixed to a permanent site;
      (2)   A manufactured home (a MANUFACTURED HOME also known as a mobile
home, is a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in
one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
      (3)   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws. For insurance purposes, STRUCTURE
does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other similar
vehicle, except as described in division (3) of this definition, or a gas or
liquid storage tank.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
that have been identified by the local code enforcement official and are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, if the alteration will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as a HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain
management regulation. (See §
155.159(E)).
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Sections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4),
(c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies, such as the one-percent-annual-chance flood
event, in the flood plains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. The channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek,
brook, stream, river, ditch, or other similar feature.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.157 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which these regulations apply.  These regulations shall apply
to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within the jurisdiction
of Flandreau.
   (B)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, or altered without full compliance with the terms of these
regulations and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for The
City of Flandreau," dated November 4, 2009 with accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these
regulations.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. These regulations are not
intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where these regulations and another ordinance,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes
the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation. In the interpretation of these regulations, all
provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   (G)   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will
occur and flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (H)   These regulations does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the
part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on these regulations, or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   (I)   Penalties for noncompliance.  In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of
CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulation, to qualify for the sale of federally
subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt floodplain management
regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of Section 60. "These
regulations must include effective enforcement provisions." In accordance with
Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulations, "These
regulations must be legally enforceable, applied uniformly throughout the
community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that
the regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws,
ordinances, or codes."
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.158 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Administrative
Official of these regulations is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator
to administer and implement the provisions of these regulations and other
appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to
floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when
possible and increase the community's resistance to future disasters.
      (2)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of these regulations, including the actual elevation of the
lowest floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially
improved structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data
supporting such certificates.
      (3)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and
locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to which these regulations apply, including,
but not limited to, the FIRM.
      (4)   Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed
building site, including sites designed for the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      (5)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these regulations.
      (6)   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state, or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (8)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the South Dakota Office of Emergency Management,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
      (10)   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source including data
provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of these
regulations.
      (11)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00
foot at any point within the community.
      (12)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the
NFIP Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30,
AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation
of the base flood by more than 1.00 foot, provided that the community first
meets the requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through
FEMA's CLOMR process.
      (13)   If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an
adverse effect on the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable
structures, technical justification for the proposed development shall be
submitted and the community may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior
to the permit approval or as a requirement of the permit.
   (C)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a
LOMR within six months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a
CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain
boundaries, or modified BFE.
      (2)   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing
technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any
processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is
responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all
necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the
CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign
the Community Acknowledgment Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of these regulations and all applicable state federal, and local
laws.
   (D)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to:
         (a)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations;
         (b)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes;
         (c)   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs;
         (d)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
structures, if applicable;
         (e)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any
nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed;
         (f)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall
meet the floodproofing criteria of these regulations and the NFIP Regulations;
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
applicable;
         (h)   At the community's discretion, the community may charge a fee
for issuance of Floodplain Development Permits;
         (i)   Copies of all floodplain development permits, and the associated
documents shall become property of the community and a permanent record;
            1.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of these regulations and
the following relevant factors:
               a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
               b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
               c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others;
               d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
               e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
               f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges,
and public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems;
               g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
               h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location,
where applicable;
               i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
               j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan for that area.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.159 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of these
regulations.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and render judgment on an appeal
only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of these regulations.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of these regulations.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (J) have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of these
regulations, the Board of Adjustment and objectives of these regulations.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in division (E) are met;
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood; and
      (3)   Damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.160 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Substantial improvement. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a building or structure, if the
cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure only (not of the structure and land value combined) before the
improvement or repair is started then the work shall be considered as
substantial improvement. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any
repairs are considered substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair
work performed. For substantial damage, refer to division (C) below. The term
does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   (C)   Substantial damage. Substantial damage means damage of any origin
sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its
pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure only before the damage occurred. This term also applies to structures
which have incurred any damage that equals or exceeds 50% of the structure's
market value regardless of the actual repair work performed. When a structure
or building has been determined as substantially damaged, any work or repair on
said structure or building will be considered as substantial improvement and
will be required to meet the development requirements set forth within these
regulations for substantial improvement.
   (D)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determination. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement
of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the applicable community officials and staff, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made.
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure.
   (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in §
155.155(C).
      (4)   Utilize FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference
when making any determination on substantial improvement and/or substantial
damage.
      (5)   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work
that is proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued.
Therefore, the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all
costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.
      (6)   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, that
compliance with the floodplain management ordinance is required.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.161 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all SFHAs and areas of suspected flood risk areas, the following
provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to the BFE. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land
surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the Floodplain Administrator that
the standards of these regulations are satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the base
flood level, or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for
the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
section. A record of such certification that includes the specific elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall
be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the
building changes in the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of
the structure cannot be used when determining compliance of the structure to
the residential construction of these regulations, division (A) above. As such,
the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be required to
be brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of
these regulations.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement, and are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (4)   The development and construction of the structure must conform with
the provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) Technical
Bulletins 1 and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional,
licensed engineer or architect is required if the structure's lowest floor is
built below the BFE.
   (D)   Crawlspace.  New construction and substantial improvements built on a
crawlspace or sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the
development is designed and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA's
Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed,
and adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five feet per second
unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a
registered architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no
more than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade (LAG).
      (3)   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of one square inch of flood opening is
required per one square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
      (4)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters. Any
building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the BFE
or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system
components during flood conditions.
      (5)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the LAG.
      (6)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the
next higher floor cannot exceed four feet at any point.
      (7)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      (8)   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
   ((E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated as high as the BFE, and be securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      (3)   In A1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to
be placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that the lowest floor is at least as high as the BFE; or the
chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in height above
grade and securely anchored.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use;
         (a)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions;
      (2)   Or meet the permit requirements of §
155.158(D), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured
homes" of this section.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.162 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (C)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of these regulations.
   (D)   BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, or whichever is
lesser.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall minimize flood damage.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.163 FLOODWAYS.
   Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood
level more than one foot.
   (B)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet
in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of these regulations.
   (D)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community
first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.175 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without a permit issued by the Administrative Official. No
permit shall be issued by the Administrative Official except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, unless he or she received a written order is
received from the Board of Adjustment in the form of an administrative review,
under conditional use, or variance as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for the construction
of any building or any accessory building without a permit. A permit is also
required for any filing, grading, lagooning, or dredging which is related to
site preparation for future construction.
   (C)   The issuance of a building/use permit shall, in no case, be construed
as waiving any provisions of this regulation.
   (D)   No building permit is necessary for the following: shingling,
replacement siding, window replacement, painting of exterior, and any interior
improvements that do not involve the moving of load- bearing walls.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.176 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for permits shall be accompanied by a site plan which may
be required to be drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and shape of the
lot to be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the lot of any of the
buildings that may already exist, and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building or alteration. The application shall include such other
information as lawfully may be required by the Administrative Official
including legal description; existing or proposed buildings or alterations;
existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families,
housekeeping units, or rental units the building is designed to accommodate;
conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to
determine conformity with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. Such
plans and data accompanying the permit shall be final and conclusive, and a
deviation therefrom shall require a new permit.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.177 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits,
conditional use permits, variances, amendments, appeals, and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended only
by the City Council.
   (B)   The current fee schedule shall be available from the Administrative
Official. All fees shall be the property of the city and shall be paid over to
the City Finance Officer for credit to the General Fund of the city which under
no condition shall be refunded. Until all applicable fees, charges, and
expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or
appeal.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.178 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of permits. Permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Administrative Official authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications. Other use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed violation of this chapter and punishable as provided
by §
155.999.
   (B)   Expiration of use permit. If the work desired in any use permit has
not begun within one year from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall
expire; it shall be canceled by the Administrative Official, and written notice
thereof shall be given to the persons affected. A six month extension may be
granted if requested in writing at least one month prior to the expiration
date. Maximum extension authorized is one year. If the work described in any
use permit has not been substantially completed by the permit’s expiration
date, said permit shall expire and be canceled by the Administrative Official,
and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected along with
notice that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed
unless and until a new permit has been obtained.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.179 BUILDING/USE PERMITS.
   (A)   No new development, change of use, moving in or out of structures,
demolition, or other action which may be regulated by the provisions of this
chapter including use, height, number of occupants, lot area, off-street
parking, or yard requirements shall occur without a building/use permit issued
by the Administrative Official. Building/use permits issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the Administrative Official authorize only
the use, arrangement, or construction set forth in such approved plans and
specifications. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance without
authorization as well as failure to obtain the necessary building permit shall
be deemed a violation of this regulation and shall be punishable as provided by
this regulation.
   (B)   An application for a building permit accompanied with the appropriate
fee, available from Administration Official, shall be completed by the
landowner requesting the building permit. Completed applications shall be
returned to the Administrative Official for review. To be considered complete,
the application form shall be accompanied by the following additional items:
      (1)    A site plan, which may be required to be drawn to scale showing
the exact size, shape, and dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the exact
size and location on the lot of all existing buildings and structures; the
exact size and location on the lot of the structure or building proposed to be
repaired, altered, erected, or moved; and the size, arrangement, number of
parking stalls, movement of vehicles, and ingress and egress drives for all
off-street parking and loading facilities;
      (2)   The location of the said lot with respect to existing rights-of-way
and adjacent lots;
      (3)   A letter of certification stating that the lot to be built upon has
been accurately surveyed. This requirement may be waived by the Administrative
Official in the event lot markers, or pins, have been located; and
      (4)   Any other information which the Administrative Official may deem
necessary for consideration in enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Administrative Official, in cases of permits to alter the interior
of any existing structure, may waive any of the requirements set forth in
division (B) above.
   (D)   One copy of the application shall be returned to the applicant, after
the Administrative Official has marked such copy as either approved or
disapproved and attested to the same by signing said copy of the plans. The
Administrative Official, for city records, shall retain one copy of the
application similarly marked.
   (E)   The Administrative Official shall then, if the applicant is approved,
issue a signed building permit. If the Administrative Official determines the
proposed action would not be in compliance with the provisions of this section,
a building permit may not be issued, and the applicant may then appeal the
action of the Administrative Official to the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Building permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
premises and visible from a public right-of-way at all times from the beginning
until completion of such construction, alteration, or repair.
   (G)    With application for a building permit, the site must be clearly
staked out and/or plans that clearly indicate the structure to be erected or
remodeled or alterations of the existing structure will be examined by the
Administrative Official.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.180 CONDITIONAL USE REQUESTS.
   (A)   Conditional uses are allowed for certain uses in some districts, as
identified in individual district regulations. Uses not listed in the district
regulations as eligible for a conditional use permit shall not, in any
circumstances, be granted a conditional use permit. The following procedure for
requesting a conditional use permit shall be followed, and the Board of
Adjustment shall follow the following procedure in considering the
recommendation of the Administrative Official. A conditional use permit, from
the terms of this subchapter, shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment
unless and until the following has occurred.
      (1)   An application for a conditional use permit, available from the
Administrative Official, shall be completed by the landowner requesting the
conditional use permit. Any required attachments and fees as in §
155.177 shall further accompany the application. The written application for a
conditional use shall indicate the section of this chapter under which the
conditional use is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
Completed applications shall be returned to the Administrative Official for
review. To be considered by the Board of Adjustment, the application form shall
be completed. If any of the information required herein has changed since the
original building permit application, the revised, updated, or corrected
information shall accompany the application for a conditional use permit.
      (2)   The Administrative Official shall review the application, and shall
make a recommendation to the Board of Adjustment to either approve or not
approve said application. The Administrative Official’s recommendation shall
include a summary of the application and reasons and justification for either
approval of or disapproval of the application.
      (3)   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time, and place for
a public hearing to be held by the Board of Adjustment. The Administrative
Official shall notify the adjacent landowners, excluding streets and alley, by
mail at the expense of the applicant at least one week before the public
hearing. The Administrative Official shall publish notice of the public hearing
with all costs to be paid by the applicant not less than ten days prior to the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by
the proposed conditional use permit.
      (4)   A public hearing shall be held; any party may appear in person or
by agent or attorney.
      (5)    The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered
under the section of these regulations as described in the application to grant
the conditional use and that the granting of the conditional use will not
adversely affect the public interest.
   (B)   Before any conditional use permit shall be issued, the Board of
Adjustment shall make a written finding certifying compliance with the specific
rules governing individual conditional uses and that satisfactory provision and
arrangement has been made concerning the following where applicable:
      (1)   Access.
         (a)   The roads providing access to the property shall be determined
to be adequate to meet the transportation demands of the proposed Conditional
Use. The Board of Adjustment may require the applicant to enter into a written
contract with the applicable road authority regarding the upgrading and
continued maintenance of any roads used for Conditional Use requested prior to
issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.
         (b)   Reasonable provisions have been made for safe vehicular and
pedestrian entrance and exit of the property for daily and emergency traffic.
      (2)   Parking and internal traffic.
         (a)   The parking areas and driveways will be covered in materials
appropriate for the internal traffic generated by the use.
         (b)   The number of parking spaces is appropriate for the proposed use
of the property.
      (3)   Utilities and refuse.
         (a)   The manner by which electricity, water, sewer, natural gas and
other utilities will be provided has been described.
         (b)   Consideration has been given to the location of refuse and
service areas and manner for disposing of trash, junk, or other debris.
      (4)   Screening, buffering, and open space.
         (a)   The type, dimensions, and character of any fences, walls, hedges
or other materials used for screening; and/or open space is appropriate for the
proposed use in reference to the specific property.
      (5)   Lighting.
         (a)   Lights associated with the use will not create a nuisance nor
distract traffic.
         (b)   Brightness, intensity, glare of lights will be similar to
lighting which would be customarily used for permitted uses in the applicable
zoning district.
      (6)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the district.
         (a)   Any use listed as a Conditional Use is generally compatible in
the district in which it is listed.
         (b)   General compatibility is used when prescribing conditions for
approval of a permit.
   (C)   In granting any Conditional Use Permit the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe conditions and safeguards in conformity with this regulation.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards may result in revocation of the
permit. Violation of such conditions, when made a part of the terms under which
the Conditional Use Permit is granted, shall further be deemed a violation of
this regulation and punishable under the terms of these regulations.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the present and voting members of
the Board of Adjustment is required to pass any application for a Conditional
Use Permit.
   (E)   Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Adjustment, a Conditional
Use Permit shall expire if no actual construction has commenced within two
years from the date upon which the Conditional Use Permit becomes effective or
within two years following the completion of any final appeal of the decision
of the Board of Adjustment to issue the Conditional Use Permit.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.181 VARIANCE REQUESTS.
   (A)   Variances are designed to allow some flexibility in the zoning
regulations in cases where there is an exceptional shape of a parcel of land,
in cases where use of a property is overwhelmingly affected by exceptional
topographic conditions, or in cases of any other extraordinary situation or
condition of such a parcel of land. Variances are to be approved only when a
property owner demonstrates that the provisions of all or part of these zoning
regulations present an undue hardship on such property owner’s use of such
parcel land. A variance shall include a description of the specific regulatory
item or items in these zoning regulations which are found to produce said undue
hardship. Variances shall only be granted when the Board of Adjustments finds
that such relief from these zoning regulations will be neither detrimental to
the public good nor in conflict with the intent of these zoning regulations.
The Board of Adjustment shall follow the following procedure in considering the
recommendation of the Administrative Official. A variance from the terms of
this section shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   An application for variance, available from the Administrative
Official, shall be completed by the landowner requesting the variance and shall
be accompanied by any required attachments and fees as in §
155.177. The written application for a variance shall indicate the section of
this chapter under which the variance is sought and stating the grounds for
which it is requested. Completed applications shall be returned to the
Administrative Official for review. To be considered by the Board of
Adjustment, the application form shall be completed. If any of the information
required by §
155.180 has changed since the original building permit application, the
revised, updated, or corrected information shall accompany the application for
a variance;
      (2)   The Administrative Official shall review the application and make a
recommendation to the Board of Adjustment to either approve or not approve said
application. The Administrative Official’s recommendation shall include a
summary of the application and reasons and justification for either approval or
disapproval of the application;
      (3)   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time, and place for
a public hearing to be held by the Board of Adjustment. The Administrative
Official shall notify the adjacent landowners, excluding streets and alleys, by
mail at the expense of the applicant at least one week before the public
hearing. The Administrative Official shall publish notice of the public hearing
with all costs to be paid by the applicant no less than ten days prior to the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by
the proposed variance;
      (4)   A public hearing shall be held; any party may appear in person or
by agent or attorney; and
      (5)    The Board of Adjustment shall follow the following procedure in
considering the recommendation of the Administrative Official. A variance from
the terms of this section shall only be granted if all of the following are
demonstrated by the applicant:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
land, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstance do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and/or
         (d)   Granting the variance request will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
   (B)   Financial disadvantage of the property owner shall not constitute
conclusive proof of unnecessary hardship within the purposes of zoning, and no
non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district and no permitted or non-conforming use of lands, structures, or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a
variance.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the requirements of
division (A) above have been met by the applicant for a variance.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
land, building, or structure.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the granting
of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental
to the public welfare.
   (F)    Approval of any variance shall be by a two-thirds majority, or four
votes, of all members of the Board of Adjustment. In granting any variance, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable under §
155.999 of this code. Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment
grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter
in the district involved or any use expressly, or implied to be, prohibited by
the terms of this subchapter in said district.
   (G)   Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Adjustment, a variance
shall expire if no actual construction has commenced within two years from the
date upon which the variance becomes effective or within two years following
the completion of any final appeal of the decision of the Board of Adjustment
to issue the variance.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.182 APPEALS.
   Any persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment may present to a court of record a petition duly verified, setting
forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds
of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days
after the filing of the decision in the office of the city Finance Officer.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.183 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the public necessity, safety, and general welfare or good
zoning practices justifies such action and after consideration and
recommendation by the City Planning Commission, as provided herein, the City
Council may change zoning district boundaries or use groups or the regulations
established by this chapter. A proposed change of zoning district boundaries or
regulations may be initiated in the following manners:
      (1)   A proposed change of zoning district boundaries or textual
regulations may be initiated by the City Planning Commission, or City Council.
      (2)   One or more of the owners of property within the area requested to
be rezoned may present a request to change the zoning district boundaries.
      (3)   Initiated petitions specifying and requesting amendments to the
textual regulations of this chapter may be presented to the Administrative
Official if said petition(s) contain signatures of 20% of the landowners in the
zoning district(s) where the proposed textual amendment would apply. Initiated
textual amendments of this chapter shall not be brought to a public vote.
   (B)   Any such amendment proposing a modification or repeal shall be
proposed in an ordinance presented to the Planning Commission and City Council
for adoption in the same manner and upon the same notice as required for the
adoption of the original ordinance.
   (C)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing(s) shall be published
once ten days prior to the date of the meetings as provided in SDCL Chapter 11-
4, and its amendments. Unless otherwise provided for in these regulations, any
change in these regulations shall require City Council approval of an ordinance
describing said changes. The City Council may not consider said ordinance until
the Planning Commission has delivered a recommendation to either approve or not
approve said ordinance.
   (D)   The landowner or other person(s) requesting the amendment shall
complete an application for amendment, available from the Administrative
Official. Completed applications shall be returned to the Administrative
Official for review. To be considered by the Planning Commission and City
Council, the application form shall be completed and shall be accompanied by
the following items:
      (1)   Any required attachments and fees including registered or certified
mail costs in §
155.177; and
      (2)   Any additional information requested by the Administrative Official
as lawfully may be required to determine conformance with and provide for
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (E)   The Administrative Official shall review the application and shall
forward a summary of the application and his or her comments regarding said
application to the Planning Commission for its review.
   (F)   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time, and place for a
joint public hearing to be held by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council. The Administrative Official shall publish notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the proposed
amendment; such notice shall be published not less than ten days prior to the
public hearing.
   (G)   If the proposed amendment will change the boundaries of a zoning
district, the Administrative Official shall notify all owners of property
within 250 feet of the proposed boundary change by registered or certified mail
at the expense of the applicant at least one week before the public hearing.
   (H)   The public hearing shall be held, and any person may appear in person
or by agent or attorney. Minutes of the public hearing shall be recorded and
kept in the records of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall either recommend or not recommend
approval of the amendment to the City Council.
   (J)   The City Council shall either approve or not approve the ordinance
describing the proposed changes to these zoning regulations in accordance with
standard procedures for reading, approval, publication, and effective date.
   (K)   When the City Council approves a proposed amendment affecting the
zoning classification of property, affected property owners may file a written
protest to stop such an amendment from taking effect. If the protest meets the
following standard, such amendment shall not become effective unless the
amendment is approved by two-thirds of the City Council. The protest shall be
signed by at least 40% of the owners of equity in the parcels in the area
affected by the amendment and the parcels or parts of parcels within 250 feet
of the area affected by the amendment.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-4
§ 155.184 REAPPLICATION.
   No application requesting a variance, conditional use, special permitted
use, or zoning ordinance amendment or district classification change on any
property whose application includes any such property either entirely or
substantially the same as that which has been denied by the Board of Adjustment
shall again be considered by the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment or
City Council before the expiration of six months from the date of the final
action of the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment or City Council.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL
§ 155.195 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   The position of Administrative Official is hereby established for the city.
The Administrative Official shall be appointed by the City Council. Further, he
or she may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the City
Council may direct. The Administration Official shall administer and enforce
this chapter. It is the intent of this subchapter that questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrative
Official and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Official.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.196 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the Administrative Official shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Issue all building permits and make and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and the use of land
to determine compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   In writing, notify persons responsible for violations indicating
the nature of the violation and ordering action necessary to correct;
      (4)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; alterations or structural changes; any illegal work being done;
removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions; or shall
take any other action authorized by this subchapter to ensure compliance with
or to prevent violation of its provisions;
      (5)   Revoke any permit which was unlawfully issued or any permit wherein
defective work has been performed and when such work has not been corrected
within 90 days of notification;
      (6)    Maintain permanent and current records of this regulation
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, variances, appeals, and
applications;
      (7)   Provide public information relative to all matters arising out of
this subchapter;
      (8)   Forward to the Planning Commission all applications for amendments
to this chapter;
      (9)   Forward to the Board of Adjustment applications for appeals,
variances, or other matters on which the Board of Adjustment is required to
pass under this chapter; and
      (10)   Initiate, direct, and review, a study of the provisions of this
chapter and to make such reports available to the Planning Commission. The
Administrative Official shall receive applications for building permits,
conditional uses, special permitted uses, variances, and zoning amendments.
         (a)   For building permits/use permits and special permitted use
permits, the Administrative Official shall approve the application only in
accordance with the provisions of the city’s zoning regulations.
         (b)   For conditional uses and variances, the Administrative Official
shall review the application and make a recommendation to the Board of
Adjustment to either approve or approve said application.
         (c)   For zoning amendments, the Administrative Official shall review
the application and make comments regarding said application to the Planning
and Zoning Commission and City Council.
   (B)   If the Administrative Official shall find that any of the provisions
of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing, the
persons responsible for such violations indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this subchapter to ensure compliance with
or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.210 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established which shall consist of the
members of the City Planning Commission as provided for in the provisions of
SDCL Chapter 11-4.
   The Mayor and City Council may appoint two alternates for the Board of
Adjustment. If a Board of Adjustment member is unable to attend a meeting, the
first alternate, or second alternate in turn, shall serve in the member’s
place. Alternates may be appointed for a term of three years.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.211 PROCEDURES FOR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of
its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of
Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (B)    The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its meetings and
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or
failing to vote indicating such fact, and it shall keep records of its
examinations and other official action all of which shall be filed in the
office of the City Finance Officer and shall be a public record. A draft of the
unapproved, unofficial minutes will be prepared and available for public
inspection ten days following each meeting.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.212 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review.
         To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administration
Official in the enforcement of this chapter and for the interpretation of the
official zoning map;
   (B)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   To hear and decide only such conditional uses as the Board of
Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this chapter,
to decide such questions as are involved in determining whether conditional
uses should be granted, and to grant conditional uses with such conditions and
safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter or to deny conditional uses
when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   To hear requests for variances from this chapter in instances where
strict enforcement would cause unnecessary hardship, and to authorize, upon
appeal in specific cases, such variance from the terms of this chapter as which
will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in
unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.213 HEARINGS, APPEALS, AND NOTICE.
   (A)    Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning interpretation or
administration of this chapter may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the Administrative Official to grant or deny the permit. No other appeal, such
as any relating to a ministerial act or other preliminary act to bring an
application or matter before the board for hearing and a final decision on the
merits is authorized. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time not
to exceed 21 days or such lesser period as may be provided by the rules of the
Board, and a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof shall be filed
with the Administrative Official and the Board of Adjustment. The
Administrative Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. All
appeals relating to a particular action or property shall be consolidated and
heard on an expedited basis.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide on appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, permit
decision, determination, or refusal made by the Administrative Official or
other administrative officers in carrying out the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter and for interpretation of the Official Zoning Map. There shall
be a public notice with an affixed time and place posted not less than ten days
prior to said hearing so that any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney to said hearing.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.214 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, except ministerial or other preliminary acts necessary to allow
consolidated appeals on all matters prior to final decision by the Board of
Adjustment, or unless the Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause an imminent peril to life and property.
   (B)   In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court
of record on application, on notice to the Administrative Official from whom
the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.215 POWER OF APPEALS, REVERSE DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrative
Official and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Official.
      (1)   All appeals filed in accordance with this section relating to a
particular action, decision, or property shall be consolidated and heard at the
same hearing.
      (2)   Ministerial acts or other preliminary acts to bring an application
or matter before the Board may not be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   In exercising the powers granted in §
155.212, the Board of Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity
with the terms of this chapter, wholly or partly reverse, affirm, or modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made and, to that
end, shall have the powers of the Administrative Official from whom the appeal
is taken.
   (C)    The concurring vote of two-thirds of all members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Administrative Official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or
to affect any variation in the application of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.216 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIFIED PERMITTED USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The special permitted use procedure is an administrative review
process, where the Administrative Official shall have the power to review an
application for conformance with the applicable standards and approval criteria
and issue a special permitted use permit. Requests for special permitted uses
may be granted if it has been determined that the prescribed conditions for a
specific use have been met or assurance has been provided that the conditions
will be met. A special permitted use permit shall not be granted unless and
until:
      (1)   A written application for a special permitted use is submitted,
indicating the section of this chapter under which the special permitted use is
sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      (2)   The Administrative Official shall review the application for
conformance with any prescribed performance standard(s).
      (3)   If the Administrative Official determines that the application is
in conformance with the prescribed performance standards, the Administrative
Official shall make written findings certifying compliance with the specific
standards governing the specific special permitted use permit and that
satisfactory provisions and arrangements have been made concerning the
prescribed conditions for the special permitted use permit.
      (4)   The Administrative Official shall then issue the special permitted
use permit subject to the applicant agreeing to any conditions within this
chapter.
      (5)   The Administrative Official shall then issue any other associated
building/use permits.
      (6)   If the application does not meet all of the performance standards
for the special permitted use, or the applicant fails to meet any of the
prescribed conditions or safeguards; the Administrative Official shall
determine that the application is not in conformance with this chapter and
appropriate special permitted use standards. The applicant may, as appropriate:
         (a)   Apply for a variance from lot area, size of structure(s) or size
of yards and open spaces.
         (b)   Apply for Conditional Use Permit, if eligible.
         (c)   Appeal the decision of the Administrative Official in accordance
with §
155.213.
      (7)   A special permitted use permit shall expire one year from the date
upon which it becomes effective if no actual construction has commenced. Upon
written request to the Administrative Official and prior to the special
permitted use expiration date, a one year time extension for the special
permitted use may be granted by the Administrative Official.
      (8)   If a decision by the Administrative Official to issue a special
permitted use permit is appealed to circuit court the special permitted use
permit that was granted does not expire for a period of two years following
completion of any final appeal of the decision.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 155.220 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the City of Flandreau,
South Dakota and for land within three miles of its corporate limits.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.221 MEMBERSHIP OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Mayor, with approval of the City Council body shall appoint a commission
to be known as the Planning Commission which shall consist of city residents
qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to the
development and administration of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Administrative officials may be appointed as ex-officio members of the
Commission by the President.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.222 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The term of each member of the Planning Commission shall be for three years
and may be reappointed for successive terms.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.223 COMPENSATION.
   Per Diem and expenses of the Planning Commission shall be established by the
City Council and paid by the city.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.224 ORGANIZATIONS, RULES, STAFF, AND FINANCES.
   Such Planning Commission shall elect its chairperson from among its members
for a term of one year with eligibility for re-election, and may fill such
other of its offices as it may create in a manner prescribed by the rules of
such Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules for transaction of its
business and keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations which shall be a public record. The Planning Commission may
appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its work whose appointment,
promotion, demotion, and removal shall be subject to the same provisions of
law, including Civil Service Regulations as govern other corresponding civil
employees of the municipality. The Commission may also contract with planners,
engineers, architects, and other consultants for such services as it may
require. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of those made from funds
received by it, shall be within the amount appropriated for the purpose by the
City Council which shall provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the Commission's work.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.225 DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Comprehensive land use plan.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may prepare, or cause to be prepared, a
comprehensive plan for the City of Flandreau. Upon preparation the Planning
Commission shall make recommendation to the City Council after complying with
the public hearing and noticing requirements.
      (2)   The comprehensive plan shall be for the purpose of protecting and
guiding the physical, social, economic, and environmental development of the
city; to protect the tax base; to encourage a distribution of population or
mode of land utilization that will facilitate the economical and adequate
provisions of transportation, roads, water supply, drainage, sanitation,
education, recreation, or other public requirements; to lessen governmental
expenditure; and to conserve and develop natural resources.
   (B)   Zoning ordinance.
      (1)   For the purpose of promoting health, safety, or the general welfare
of the city, the City Council, upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission, may adopt a zoning ordinance to regulate and restrict the height,
number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage
of lot that may be occupied, the size of the yards, courts, and other open
spaces, the density of population, and the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, flood plain, or other
purposes.
      (2)   The City Council may divide the city into districts of such number,
shape, and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this
chapter; and within the districts it may regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of buildings,
structures, or land. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or
kind of buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district
may differ from those in other districts.
      (3)   The regulations shall be made in accordance with the comprehensive
plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to
provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid
undue concentration or scattering of population; to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks; and other public
requirements.
      (4)   The regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, to the character of the district, and its peculiar suitability
for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
      (5)   Upon preparation of a zoning ordinance, or any amendment thereto,
the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council after
complying with the public hearing and noticing requirements.
   (C)   Subdivision ordinance.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may make recommendations to the City
Council for the adoption of a subdivision ordinance which shall be made in
accordance with the comprehensive plan. The regulations may establish standards
and procedures to be employed in land development including subdividing of land
and the approval of land plats and the preservation of streets and land for
other public purposes requiring future dedication or acquisition and general
design of physical improvements.
      (2)   To review proposals for subdivision ordinance adoption, or
amendments thereto, to determine whether such subdivisions comply with the
subdivision ordinance of the City of Flandreau and make recommendation to the
City Council relating to the approval of subdivisions.
      (3)   Upon preparation of a subdivision ordinance, or any amendment
thereto, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council after complying with the public hearing and noticing requirements.
   (D)   Amendments.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may from time to time propose and make
recommendation on amendments to the comprehensive land use plan, zoning
ordinance, and subdivision regulations to the City Council after complying with
the public hearing and noticing requirements.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.230 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any zoning district, excluding the C1 District, no
planting, structure, or obstruction to impede the vision between the range of
three and eight feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets
shall be placed or maintained within the triangular area formed by the
intersection road right-of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on
said road right-of-way line, each of which is 50 feet distance from the point
of intersection (clear view triangle). See Figure 155.230.
Figure 155.230
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1622.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.231 CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS OF FENCES.
   (A)    Notwithstandi ng other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls, and
hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of any required
yard provided in accordance with Table 155.231 and Figures 155.231.1,
155.231.2, and 155.231.3.
   (B)      No person shall hereafter construct, erect, or maintain or cause to
be constructed, erected, or maintained in the city limits any fences of any
character or material without first securing permission from the Administrative
Official. Further, no such fence of any kind shall be built closer than one
foot to the inside sidewalk line or street right-of-way. Exception: A fence/
wall/hedge may be placed on the property line provided application includes
both owners of the shared property line.
   (C)   Approved fencing materials include stone, brick, wood, vinyl, and
chain link. The city further requires fencing materials to be “new” - used for
first time installation. Individuals wishing to utilize “used” - not first-time
installation fencing materials shall require Board of Adjustment approval. No
electric or barbed wire fence shall be used in the construction of any fences
within the city, except that barbed wire may be used in connection with a
security fence when the barbed wire is at least six feet from the ground and/or
a conditional use permit is issued for an electric or barb wire fence in the
agricultural zoning district. No electric fences are allowed adjacent to a
residential zoning district.
   (D)   The side of the fence considered being the face, facing as applied to
fence post, should face abutting property.
   (E)   Fences, walls, and hedges which are more than 30% solid shall abide by
§
155.230.
   (F)   The installation of a fence shall be in a manner as to which access to
the city for the purposes of reading utility meters is provided.
   (G)   The height of fences shall be determined as measured from the highest
grade elevation on either side of the fence wall to the top of the fence.
   (H)   Fences in front, side and rear yards.
      (1)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls,
and hedges, fences/walls and hedges may be allowed in accordance with Table
155.231 and Figures 155.231.1, 155.231.2, and 155.231.3.
      (2)   The Administrative Official is authorized to permit fences/walls/
hedges up to seven feet in height provided said fence/wall/hedge is located
outside the required front yard.
Table 155.231
 
Fence            Corner Lot                     Interior Lot
Requirements     Setback          Maximum Fence Setback          Maximum Fence
                                  Height                         Height
Front yard -     1' from sidewalk               1' from sidewalk
Fence (Less than line (ROW)       4'            line (ROW)       4
30% solid)
Front yard -     Minimum setback                Minimum setback
Fence (more than in applicable    7'            in applicable    7'
30% solid)       zoning district                zoning district
Rear yard no     1'               7'            1'               7'
alley
Rear yard with   10' from alley                 10' from alley
alley            line and street  7'            line             7'
                 line
Side yard        1'               7'            1'               7'
 
Figure 155.231.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1630.png]
 
Corner lot: Four-foot-tall fence which is less than 30% solid in front yard
(one foot from sidewalk line (ROW); seven-foot-tall fence which is more than
30% solid (one foot from rear and side yard property liens and no closer than
required front yard setback of underlying district).
Figure 155.231.2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1632.png]
 
Interior Lot: Four-foot-tall fence which is less than 30% solid in front yard
(one foot from sidewalk line (ROW)); seven-foot-tall fence which is more than
30% solid (one foot from rear and side yard property lines and no closer than
required front yard setback of underlying district).
Figure 155.231.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1634.png]
 
Corner and interior lot: Four-foot-tall fence which is less than 30% solid in
front yard (one foot from sidewalk line (ROW)); seven-foot-tall fence which is
more than 30% solid not to be located closer than required front yard setback
of underlying district and one foot from rear and side yard property lines.
Exception: All fences adjacent to alleys are to be set back five feet from
alley line. (blue triangle is clear view safety triangle)
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.232 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Only specifically authorized accessory uses are allowed; accessory
uses must be subordinate to principal use.
   (B)      No accessory use shall be permitted in any district unless such use
is specifically authorized by this chapter.
         No accessory use shall be deemed to be authorized by this chapter
unless such use is subordinate to and on the same zoning lot with the principal
use in conjunction with which it is maintained.
   (C)   No separate accessory building shall be erected within five feet of
any side or rear lot line. Accessory buildings, not part of the main building,
may be located in a rear yard but may not occupy more than 30% of a rear yard.
See Figure 155.232.1.
Figure 155.232.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1636.png]
 
   (D)    In any commercial or industrial district, any accessory use
customarily incident to the principal permitted use or conditional use shall be
permitted except those uses specifically prohibited in the applicable district.
   (E)    No accessory building may be used for residential dwelling purposes
at any time.
   (F)     Accessory uses in residential districts shall be permitted for the
principal permitted uses and conditional uses of the residential districts only
in accordance with the provisions in division (G) below hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be part of this subchapter.
   (G)   For single-family dwellings, duplexes, townhouses and multiple-family
dwellings, and nursery schools and day care centers, the following are
permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Private garages.
         (a)   Attached garages shall be limited to a total area less than or
equal to the gross floor area of the house and conform to the design of the
house; corrugated steel siding is prohibited. Unless a special permitted use
permit is granted, other steel panel siding is prohibited. Attached garages may
receive a special permitted use permit to use steel panel siding and roofing
materials if written consent of 100% of property owners owning property
immediately adjacent (excluding streets and alleys) to the proposed building
site has been received.
         (b)   Unattached garages shall be limited to maximum side walls of 14
feet and have a total area less than or equal to the gross floor area of the
house and minimum 4/12 roof pitch or to conform to the design of the house.
         (c)   Unattached garages shall have roofing and siding materials of a
type customarily used on site-constructed residences (Roofing - Asphalt
Shingle, Wood Shingle, Clay Tile, Slate, and/or Steel; Siding - Vinyl, Wood,
Stone Veneer, Brick, Composite, Fiber Cement, and/or Stucco and roofing and
siding materials as determined by the Board of Adjustment). Corrugated
galvanized steel is prohibited. Unless a special permitted use permit is
granted, other steel panel siding is prohibited. Unattached garages may receive
a special permitted use permit to use steel panel siding if written consent of
100% of property owners owning property immediately adjacent (excluding streets
and alleys) to the proposed building site has been received.
         (d)   Detached and unattached garages may receive a special permitted
use permit to exceed maximum area dimensions and height requirements if written
consent of 100% of property owners owning property immediately adjacent
(excluding streets and alleys) to the proposed building site and of 50% of the
property owners within 250 feet (excluding streets and alleys) of said proposed
location has been received and the maximum lot coverage for all buildings and
structures shall not exceed 35% of the total lot area
      (2)   Buildings or structures for customary residential storage purposes
including weather protective canopies (carports), not over 12 feet in height
and not exceeding 200 square feet in gross floor area with a door opening no
wider than seven feet;
      (3)   Readily moveable sports, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment;
      (4)   Permanent sports or recreational structures or facilities, such as
tennis courts, swimming pools, barbeque pits, and similar improvements provided
a site plan for such facility is approved;
      (5)   Home occupations and extended home occupations but only as defined
herein;
      (6)   Non-commercial greenhouses provided that greenhouses over 100
square feet in floor area must have an approved site plan;
      (7)   Off-street parking and storage of vehicles but only as provided in
§§
155.275 through
155.277; and
      (8)   Dog enclosures.
   (H)   For religious institutions, all customarily incidental uses reasonably
necessary to allow the free exercise of religion but not to include commercial
use are permitted accessory uses.
   (I)   For all conditional use principal establishments, all customarily
incidental uses reasonably necessary to promote the primary purposes of the
principal use, provided that such use must be specifically authorized by the
Board of Adjustment for the principal use, are permitted accessory uses.
   (J)   No separate accessory building shall be erected within five feet of
any other building.
   (K)   Accessory buildings which are attached to or located within ten feet
of the main building shall be considered part of the principal structure and
shall comply with the same yard requirements as the main building.
   (L)   A garage which is entered directly from an alley shall not be located
closer than 20 feet to the alley line. A garage which is entered parallel to
the alley way may be located five feet from the alley line. See Figure
155.232.2.
Figure 155.232.2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1638.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.233 ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURES.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street or with access to private streets approved by the Board of
Adjustment, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe
and convenient access for services, fire protection, and required off-street
parking.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.234 YARDS.
   (A)   No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this subchapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this subchapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards and lots created after the effective date of this subchapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by division (C) below.
   (C)   The following yard requirements must be observed in addition to the
yard requirements of the various districts.
      (1)   Except in the A and C1 Districts, a corner lot must have a front
yard on both streets.
      (2)    On lots in any residentially zoned block fronting on one side of
the street between two streets where one or more residences already exist, no
building shall hereafter be erected, and no existing building shall be
reconstructed or altered in such a way that any portion thereof shall be closer
to the street line than the average improved building front on that street in
that block, but in no case shall the set-back line be less than 12 feet from
the front lot line. However, on lots in any block fronting one side of a street
between two intersecting streets in the above districts, the setback line may
be increased provided that the owners of three-fourths of the front footing on
said side of the street in said block shall petition the Board of Adjustment to
establish the set-back line at a certain distance named in the petition. If the
Board of Adjustment approves establishing the setback line as petitioned, it
may be so established.
      (3)   On through lots and reversed frontage lots, a front yard must be
provided on both streets.
      (4)   Required front yards shall be devoted entirely to landscaped area
except for the necessary paving or driveways and sidewalks to reach parking or
loading areas in the side or rear yard.
   (D)   The following exceptions may be made to the yard requirements.
      (1)   Air conditioning units, sills, chimneys, cornices, and ornamental
features may project into a required yard a distance not to exceed 24 inches.
      (2)   In commercial and industrial districts, filling station pumps and
pump islands may occupy required yards provided, however, that they are not
less than 15 feet from all lot lines.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.235 MULTIPLE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES ON LOT.
   In any district, only one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on single lot provided that yard and other
requirements are met.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.236 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   The height limitations contained in individual district regulations do not
apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.237 PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   All existing septic tanks shall be considered non-conforming uses. All
structures used for human habitation, commercial, and industrial use must be
connected to a sewage disposal system approved by the Board of Adjustment. An
exception to this is that on-site septic systems installed per regulations of
the state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources may be allowed on
property owned or developed by the city if the said property is located further
than one-fourth of mile from an existing city sanitary sewer collection line.
On-site septic systems shall be required to be removed and connected to the
city sanitary sewer system when such system is within 200 feet of a lot
containing said septic system. Minimum requirements include watertight septic
tank connected to a drain field and no drain area to be deeper than five feet.
If the city sanitary sewer system is available within 200 feet, all such
structures must be connected at the landowner's cost.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.238 MODULAR HOMES.
   Modular homes shall:
   (A)   Meet or exceed the current International Building Code (IBC);
   (B)   Include all off-site constructed homes which may be transported to the
site in one or more sections;
   (C)   Have more than 1,000 square feet in ranch style and 850 square feet
split and be placed on a permanent foundation;
   (D)   Not have attached running gear and a trailer hitch or the capacity to
have attached running gear and trailer hitch;
   (E)   Have a minimum of a four-twelfths roof pitch;
   (F)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and
   (G)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.239 TYPE I AND TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes defined. For the purpose of this chapter
manufactured homes will be regulated by type. Two types of homes are defined
under these regulations.
(1)   Type I manufactured homes shall be a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-
site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code in addition to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Have more than 1,100 square feet of occupied space in a double
section or larger multi- section unit;
         (b)   Have removed running gear and hitch;
         (c)   Have been anchored to a permanent foundation, permanent
perimeter enclosure, and permanent footing;
         (d)   Have been inspected and approved by the Administrative Official
prior to placement of a home on the foundation;
         (e)   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least four-twelfths feet;
         (f)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
         (g)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences; and
         (h)   Not be older than 15 years from the date of manufacture.
      (2)   Type II manufactured homes shall be a dwelling unit fabricated in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code in addition to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Have more than 700 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando, or multi-section unit;
         (b)   Utilize a perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified herein;
         (c)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or as prescribed by the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code;
         (d)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
         (e)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
         (f)   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least three-twelfths feet;
         (g)   Not be older than 15 years from the date of manufacture; and
   Zoning   123
         (h)   Be placed onto a support system in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in herein.
   (B)   Installation standards.
      (1)   Permanent foundation, or permanent perimeter enclosure, as required
for type I manufactured homes. Those type I manufactured homes designated in
this subchapter, as requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must have
footings and crawl space or basement walls. The space between the floor joints
of the home shall be completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure
except for required openings.
         (a)   A crawl space must be constructed of concrete or masonry block
grouted solid with one number four horizontal rebar that is one-half inch and
tied to number four rebar verticals placed in the footing four feet on center.
         (b)   The foundation shall be an approved wood basement constructed of
two by six framework and treated with water-resistant materials or be
constructed with eight inches poured concrete or concrete block.
         (c)   The footing is to be a minimum of eight inches thick by 16
inches wide poured concrete with top of footing to be 16 inches below grade and
the bottom of the footing to be below the frost line.
      (2)   Foundation siding/skirting. All type II manufactured homes without
a perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting
enclosing the entire perimeter of the home.
      (3)   Support system.
         (a)   All HUD-Code manufactured homes of the type I classification
shall be installed with load bearing foundations in conformance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications.
         (b)   Type II manufactured homes not placed on a permanent foundation
shall be installed on a support system in conformance with the manufacturer’s
installation specifications or with the support systems regulations in the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code.
   (C)   Non-conforming homes. A manufactured home placed and maintained on a
tract of land and deemed to be a legal non-conforming use prior to the adoption
of this chapter shall continue to be a legal non-conforming use. If the non-
conforming use is discontinued for a period of one year, the land thereafter
must be used in conformity with all provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Replacement of non-conforming homes. Type I and type II manufactured
homes located upon any lot or lots of record at the time of the adoption of
this chapter may be replaced by type I and/or type II manufactured homes of
like dimensions, and said replacement shall not be deemed to have changed the
use thereof from a non-conforming to a conforming use.
   (E)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, the Administrative
Official, after it is placed on the site, must approve any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured home.
   (F)   Exception to maximum age requirement. Type I and type II manufactured
homes may receive a special permitted use permit to allow a manufactured home
older than 15 years from the date of manufacture in divisions (A)(1)(h) and (A)
(2)(h) of this section. The Administrative Official may approve a special
permitted use permit if the manufactured home meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a photograph of the manufactured home's
exterior and interior.
      (2)   That it shall have been shown to the satisfaction of the
Administrative Official that the said manufactured home complies with the gas,
plumbing, electrical, and construction requirements of the City of Flandreau.
      (3)   That the applicant obtain the written consent of all property
owners owning property immediately adjacent (excluding streets and alleys) to
the proposed building.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.240 PERMANENT FOUNDATIONS REQUIRED FOR DWELLINGS.
   No dwelling shall be constructed, installed, or moved into the area under
the jurisdiction of these regulations unless said dwelling is constructed upon,
installed on, or moved onto a permanent foundation as defined in these
regulations. Exempt from this requirement are type I and type II manufactured
homes without a permanent foundation located in appropriately zoned areas of
the community provided said manufactured homes are anchored with tie downs to
prevent the manufactured home from dangerous motion during high wind or other
weather-related events.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.241 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   No building or addition thereto shall be erected over or across any existing
public utility or upon any platted easement.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.242 MOVED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building onto any lot
or to any new location within the city unless and until a permit to do so has
been obtained from the Administrative Official. No permit shall be issued until
the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The fee for said permit as prescribed in §
155.177 shall have been paid.
      (2)   It shall have been shown, to the satisfaction of the Administrative
Official, that the said house or other building complies with the gas,
plumbing, electrical, and construction requirements of the city.
      (3)   The work is to be completed within 12 months after the permit has
been issued by the Administrative Official.
      (4)   The applicant shall also file with the City Finance Officer a
sufficient bond conditioned so that the applicant will indemnify the city and
any public utility for any damage done to any property, street, alley, or
public grounds. No building shall be moved other than during the period from
daylight to sundown. Before any permit is granted under this section, the
applicant must furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the
property have been paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot
within the city, the Administrative Official shall have the power to deny the
granting of a moving permit on the grounds that the intended use of the
structure or location thereof is contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any building which is not newly constructed to be used for first
occupancy shall also receive the written consent of all property owners of
immediately adjacent property, excluding streets and alleys, to the proposed
building site and the consent of more than 50% of the number of owners of
property within 150 feet, excluding streets and alleys, of said proposed
location has been received.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building off of any
lot within the city unless and until a permit to do so has been obtained from
the Administrative Official. No permit shall be issued until the following
requirements are met.
      (1)   The fee for said permit as prescribed in §
155.177, shall have been paid.
      (2)   That the work is to be completed within 12 months after the permit
has been issued by the Administrative Official.
      (3)   The applicant shall also file with the Administrative Official a
map of roadways upon which the building will be carried within city limits.
Further, the applicant may be required to provide documentation of condition of
said roadways, including right-of-way, utilities, private property, etc., both
prior to, and following the moving of the structure.
      (4)   If damage occurs, the applicant shall be held financially
responsible for the repair of roadways, including right-of-way, utilities,
private property, etc. to their respective condition prior to the damage. All
work shall be performed to the standards of the city.
      (5)   No building shall be moved other than during the period from
daylight to sundown. Before any permit is granted under this section, the
applicant must furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the
property have been paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot
within the city, the Administrative Official shall have the power to deny the
granting of a moving permit on the grounds that the intended use of the
structure or location thereof is contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   When no replacement structure is to be moved in or constructed, the
applicant shall agree to restore the lot to a buildable condition. This may
include but is not limited to concrete basement removal, collapsing of the
basement walls, earthwork, landscaping and/or reseeding.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.243 SCREENING.
   Where any C1, HC, and I use is adjacent to any residential zone, that use,
whether it be building, parking, or storage, shall be appropriately screened
from the residential use district by planting or fencing except where planting
or fencing may be in conflict with §§
155.230 or
155.231.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.244 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The City of Flandreau has not adopted the 2021 edition of the International
Building Code as published by the International Code Council (IBC Code). With
the exception of residential structures (one-family or two-family dwelling and
townhouses not more than three stories in height with separate means of
egress), manufactured homes, and accessory structures thereto, the design
standard for the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal, and demolition of any
other building commenced after July 1, 2021, within the boundaries of the City
of Flandreau shall be based on the IBC Code. The city does not provide
inspection services related to the enforcement of the IBC Code. All applicants
for all structures that are required to comply with the IBC Code shall provide
legal affidavit that said structure(s) have been designed and constructed to
IBC Code.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.245 CARETAKER/WATCHPERSON’S QUARTERS.
   (A)    A caretaker or watchperson’s quarters on parcels with a C1, H, or I
zoning district shall require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   A caretaker or watchperson’s living quarters shall be limited to not
more than one dwelling unit which shall be occupied by person(s) associated
with the operation or maintenance of the business or building. If it is found
that the occupant(s) are not associated with such operation or maintenance, the
living area shall be removed.
   (C)   The total area of the dwelling unit shall consist of not more than 30%
of the total area of the building.
   (D)   The dwelling unit shall be physically separated from the business
area, and the door entering into the dwelling unit shall remain locked during
all hours during which business patrons are allowed in the building.
   (E)   The dwelling unit shall maintain a second means of egress other than
that of the business area associated with the caretaker or watchperson’s living
quarters. That means of egress may be from a door that accesses the outside of
the building from within the living quarters or through an egress window within
the living quarters that is compliant with IBC requirements.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
SIGNS
§ 155.260 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a set of standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, or advertising
devices within the city. These standards are designed to protect and promote
the general welfare, health, and safety of persons within the community to aid
and assist in the development and promotion of business and industry by
providing regulations which allow and encourage creativity, effectiveness, and
flexibility in the design and use of such devices.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.261 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   No private sign shall be erected or maintained which:
      (1)   Creates a hazard due to collapse, fire, collision, decay, or
abandonment; or
      (2)   Creates traffic hazards, by either:
         (a)   Confusing or distracting motorists;
         (b)   Impairing the driver's ability to see pedestrians, obstacles, or
other vehicles;
         (c)   Impairing the driver's ability to see and interpret any official
traffic sign, signal, or device;
         (d)   Creates a nuisance to persons using a public right-of-way; or
         (e)   Constitutes a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and contiguous
property by its brightness, size, height, or movement.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.262 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Signs where allowed in specified zoning districts, are subject to the
following provisions:
   (A)   Wall signs may be located anywhere on the wall of a building.
   (B)   Signs shall not project over public property.
   (C)   Signs shall not be erected adjacent to a corner of two intersecting
streets unless such signs are constructed to not obstruct the view of said
intersection. See § 155.130.
   (D)   The Administrative Official shall take into consideration factors that
would make the proposed structure likely to endanger the property or personal
safety of passerby traveling the streets or sidewalks in question, and whether
or not such structure complies with codes relating to outdoor advertising.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.263 SIGNS IN THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permanent freestanding signs and wall signs are prohibited in
Residential Zoning Districts. Exception: Apartment complexes, churches,
schools, public buildings, hospitals, nursing homes, licensed day care
facilities, commercial storage buildings and manufactured home parks.
   (B)   Temporary signs for Permitted and Conditional Uses in Residential
Zoning Districts shall comply with the requirements of Table 155.263.
   (C)   Freestanding and wall signs erected accessory to any permitted use or
conditional use in the any residential Zoning Districts shall be constructed in
accordance with the building permit issued for the sign and, unless specified
elsewhere in this chapter, conform to Table 155.263.
      (1)   The sign structure or sign shall have a maximum height of ten feet.
Height of sign is the vertical distance from the top of the sign or sign
structure, whichever is greater, to the ground in a straight line directly
below, measured from a point equidistant from the sides or edges of the sign.
      (2)   Each sign shall be constructed in accordance with minimum setback
requirements of the applicable district except that a sign may be constructed
in any location in the front yard provided it shall not be closer than one foot
from any street right-of-way and shall comply with all other requirements of
this chapter.
Table 155.263
 
             Area                          Number
             Adjacent to  Adjacent to      Adjacent to      Adjacent to
Sign Type    Municipal    State or Federal Municipal Right- State or Federal
             Right-of-Way Right-of-Way     of-Way           Right-of-Way
Freestanding 50 square feet                1
Wall
Temporary    32 square feet                1
 
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.264 SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Freestanding and wall signs erected in the Highway Commercial and Industrial
Districts shall be constructed in accordance with the building permit issued
for the sign and, unless specified elsewhere in this chapter, conform to Table
155.264.
   (A)   The sign structure or sign shall have a maximum height of 30 feet or
six feet above the height of the peak of the tallest building on site,
whichever is greater. Height of sign is the vertical distance from the top of
the sign or sign structure, whichever is greater, to the ground in a straight
line directly below, measured from a point equidistant from the sides or edges
of the sign.
   (B)   Each sign shall not be closer than one foot from any street right-of-
way and shall not overhang above any right-of-way.
Table 155.264
 
                             Area             Number
                                                               Adjacent to
             Setback from    Adjacent to all  Adjacent to      County, State,
Sign Type    Residentially   Streets          Municipal Right- or Federal
             Zoned Property                   of-way           Highway Right-
                                                               of-Way
                             - 2 sq. ft. per
                             lineal foot of
                             frontage not to
                             exceed 240
                             square feet on a
                             single frontage
                             lot;
                             - 2 sq. ft. per
                             lineal foot of   1 per 100 lineal 1 per 100 lineal
Freestanding 100 feet        frontage not to  feet of frontage feet of frontage
                             exceed 120       (b)              (b)
                             square feet per
                             sign or
                             cumulative 240
                             square feet on a
                             single sign on
                             multiple
                             frontage lot
                             (see (a) below)
             Applicable      7% of wall area
Wall         Setback for     facing right-of- n/a
             Primary         way (c)
             Structures
             Applicable Side
Temporary    or Rear Setback 32 square feet   1
             for Primary
             Structures
   (a)   In the case of lots with multiple frontages, maximum sign area for
each sign is based upon the lineal feet of the narrowest frontage on the lot.
   (b)   For lots with less than 100 feet of frontage on any given street, one
sign is allowed per frontage.
   (c)   Not to include printing, lettering or drawing in doors or windows.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.265 PORTABLE SIGNS.
   Temporary use of portable or moveable signs shall be allowed in commercial
and industrial districts in excess of and in addition to the sign limitations
of this section. The following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Portable signs shall be permitted only four times per 12-month period
for a maximum of 14 consecutive days per period.
   (B)   The maximum permitted size of a portable sign is six feet in height
and ten feet in length.
   (C)   A portable sign shall not be located closer than 20 feet to any
intersection and shall not be located closer than three feet from any sidewalk.
   (D)   Only one portable sign shall be allowed per 150 feet of lot frontage.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.266 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS.
   (A)   Electronic message sign displays shall be limited to displays, which
are gradual movements, including, but not limited to, dissolve, fade,
scrolling, or traveling. However, sudden movement is prohibited, including, but
not limited to, blinking and flashing.
   (B)   Any permitted signs may be, or may include as an individual component
of the total sign area, electronic message signs.
   (C)   Electronic messages or graphic displays may be changed at periodic
intervals by gradual entry and exit display modes provided that messages and
animation shall be displayed at periodic intervals by various modes, such as
fade, dissolve, scrolling, or traveling.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.267 SIGNS ON OTHERWISE VACANT LOTS (AS CONDITIONAL USE).
   In those districts identified in this chapter the Board of Adjustment may,
by Conditional Use Permit, allow freestanding signs on a lot with no other
principal permitted use provided the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Not more than one sign per 150 feet of frontage.
   (C)   No sign shall exceed 120 square feet in area.
   (D)   No sign shall be constructed less than 100 feet from a residentially
zoned property.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the following factors when
determining whether a sign on an otherwise vacant lot would adversely affect
the public interest:
      (1)   Width of the right-of-way;
      (2)   Speed limit of adjacent right-of-way; and
      (3)   Distance the sign is placed from the right-of-way.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
PARKING AND HIGHWAY
§ 155.275 PARKING, STORAGE, AND USE OF MAJOR RECREATION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Off-street parking of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles,
watercraft, or trailers shall not be permitted in the required front or side
yard of any residence except as follows (see Figure 155.275.1):
      (1)   Upon a driveway providing direct access to the garage or rear yard;
and
      (2)   Upon any other driveway or parking pad, provided there is only one
driveway, and which is no wider than 22 feet, and the location of the driveway
or parking pad is not located directly in front of the primary structure.
   Figure 155.275.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1648.png]
 
Figure 155.272.1 Notes:
   Letter B above shows two options for the placement of a drive way, only one
option may be utilized.
   Red area above denotes no off-street parking locations.
   Green area above denotes acceptable side and non-rear yard parking areas.
   (B)   No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping
purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot or in any location not
approved for such use.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.276 PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current
license plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned
property other than in completely enclosed buildings.
   (B)   Automobiles, trailers, and recreation equipment shall not be parked on
residentially zoned lots which do not contain a structure.
   (C)   Vehicles not in use and without a current license may not be kept in
any uncovered area other than designated junk or salvage yard.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.277 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Except in the C1 Central Commercial District, off-street motor
vehicle parking and loading spaces shall hereafter be provided on the same lot
as and in the number stated for each use set forth in the schedule of minimum
off-street parking and loading requirements below. In the event the minimum
number of spaces specified cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot as the
principal use for which the spaces are required, the Board of Adjustment may
permit such spaces to be provided on other off-street property within 400 feet
of the entrance to such principal use.
   (B)   The following off-street parking and loading specifications are
minimum requirements:
Use or Structure Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                 Requirements               Requirements
Use or Structure          Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                          Requirements               Requirements
Bed and breakfast         One space for each guest   None
                          room
Bowling alleys            Four spaces per alley      One space per
                                                     establishment
Car wash                  Three spaces per wash      None
                          stall
                          One space for each four
Churches                  seats in the main seating  None
                          area
Eating and drinking       One space for each three-  One space per
places                    customer seating spaces    establishment
Funeral homes             Five spaces for each       Two spaces per
                          reposing room              establishment
Hospitals                 One space for each three   Three spaces per
                          beds                       establishment
Hotels and motels         One space for each guest   One space per
                          room                       establishment
                          One space for each two     Two spaces per
Industrial uses           employees on the maximum   establishment
                          working shift
Libraries                 One space for each 500     One space per
                          square feet of floor area  establishment
Manufactured home parks   Two spaces for each        None
                          manufactured home
                          One space for each
Medical or dental clinics examining or operating     None
                          room plus one space for
                          each doctor and employee
Multiple-family dwellings Two spaces for each
and nursing,              dwelling unit exclusive of
convalescent, and rest    required yards;            None
homes                     one space for each five
                          beds
Office                    1 per 250 sq. ft. gross    None
                          floor area
                          One space for each 100
Private clubs, lodges,    square feet or one space
and social or fraternal   for each three seats at    None
organizations             bars or dining tables;
                          whichever is greater
Retail sales              One space for each 300     One space per
establishments            square feet of floor area  establishment
Schools                   One space for each 25      One space per school
                          students
Service establishments    One space for each 300     One space per
                          square feet of floor area  establishment
Single-family dwellings   One space for each 300     None
                          square feet of floor area
Theaters, auditoriums,    Two spaces for each        One space per
and places of public      dwelling unit exclusive or establishment
assembly                  required yards
Use or structure          Minimum off-street parking Minimum off-street loading
                          requirements               requirements
                          One space for each four
Warehouse, wholesale and  seats of design capacity,  Two spaces per
distribution              and one space for each two establishment
                          employees on the maximum
                          working shift
 
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.278 SOUTH DAKOTA HIGHWAY 32 REGULATIONS.
   With respect to all property and improvements located on South Dakota
Highway 32 from the Big Sioux River east to the Junction with South Dakota
Highway 13, the following rules and limitations regarding encroachments on the
public right-of-way shall be complied with.
   (A)   All encroachments on or above the right-of-way shall be prohibited.
   (B)   The use of the right-of-way by owners or leases of abutting property
for the storage of vehicles, placement of portable signs, or other private use
thereof shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Where the highway passes through established business districts and
the buildings are at the property line and are continuous or very closely
spaced, encroachments overhanging the right-of-way will be prohibited except
under the following conditions.
      (1)   Awnings, canopies, marquees, and similar installations on building
shall be permitted to remain in place until such time that they become
functionally or structurally obsolete provided that the edge of such
encroachment be not less than one meter back from the face of the curb.
      (2)   Advertising or similar signs which are less than one meter back
from the face of the curb and are supported wholly from the front of the
building shall be permitted to remain in place until such time that they become
functionally or structurally obsolete provided that the bottom of such
encroachment be not less than four and one-half meters, approximately 14.5
feet, above the curb elevation.
      (3)   The replacement of obsolete or the installation of new awnings,
canopies, marquees, advertising signs, or similar installations supported
wholly from the building shall be permitted provided that no part of the
encroachment is less than one meter back from the face of the curb and two and
one-half meters, approximately eight feet, above the curb elevation.
      (4)   In the event the encroachments referred to in divisions (C)(1), (C)
(2), and (C)(3) above by reason of color or placement or obscures or in any way
detracts from the effectiveness of the highway signs, traffic signals,
pedestrian safety, or interferes with the free or safe flow of traffic, the
city may cause the removal of such encroachments or take appropriate measures
to improve highway signs or traffic signals and traffic safety.
      (5)   The provisions of divisions (C)(1) through (C)(4) above shall not
apply to isolated businesses or commercial buildings in outlying areas.
      (6)   In cases where there are encroachments of long standing which will
in no way impair the highway operation or interfere with the free and safe flow
of traffic and, in the opinion of the state’s Transportation Commission, the
immediate removal would impose unreasonable hardship, the state’s
Transportation Commission may, at its discretion, permit the encroachment to
remain for a specific period. The permission is subject to revocation or
extension at the Commission’s discretion. On federal aid projects, the
permitting of such encroachments, as described herein, shall be in conformance
with 23 C.F.R. § 1.23.
   (D)   No access to the street/highway at points other than constructed as
part of the highway project will be permitted without prior approval of the
Department of Transportation or their authorized representatives.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
SMALL CELL WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 155.290 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be known as the small cell
facilities regulation. It is the purpose of these provisions to develop
standards and siting criteria and to establish removal procedures.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of these provisions:
      (1)   To establish regulations and siting standards for small cell
wireless communication facilities (SCFs), whether in the public right-of-way or
on other public or private property, in a manner that will protect the public’s
health, safety, and welfare and maintain the aesthetic integrity of the
community;
      (2)   To facilitate the provisions of wireless communication services;
and
      (3)   To provide regulations which are specifically not intended to and
shall not be interpreted or applied to prohibit or effectively prohibit the
provision of wireless services, unreasonably discriminate among functionally
equivalent service providers, or regulate wireless communication facilities and
wireless transmission equipment on the basis of the environmental effects of
radio frequency emissions to the extent that such emissions comply with the
standards established by the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.291 RESERVED.
§ 155.292 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Permit processing. For all SCF installation types, including new and
replacement utility poles and SCF collocation to existing SCF support
structures or existing utility poles, the Administrative Official shall issue
permits in accordance with the terms and procedures set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Zoning exemption. All SCF installations shall be exempt from general
zoning restrictions unless a provision of such zoning code is explicitly cited
by a section of this subchapter.
   (C)   Exempt activities. This subchapter shall not apply to routine
maintenance or the replacement of an SCF, utility pole, or SCF support
structure which was previously approved pursuant to this subchapter with
another SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure that is the same or
substantially similar.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.293 SITING AND COLLOCATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   SCFs shall:
      (1)   Be located on existing structures such as utility poles or SCF
support structures; or
      (2)   Be located on public property and structures if the controlling
public entity agrees to the placement.
   (B)   Applications to collocate SCFs at locations other than those listed
above in division (A) above may not be approved administratively. However, if
an applicant certifies that it is not technically feasible, economically
feasible, or places an undue burden to collocate an SCF at a location
designated in division (A) above, the applicant may request a special review of
the application as provided under §
155.295. Such certification shall include a written statement indicating the
reason why said location is not feasible.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.294 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An SCF permit shall be required to install any SCF, utility pole, or SCF
support structure. Applications for an SCF permit shall be considered and
approved pursuant to the provisions of this section. An SCF permit shall be
deemed to include all other municipal permits which may be necessary to place
and construct an SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure as represented in
an approved application. The granting of an SCF permit pursuant to this
subchapter is not a grant of any franchise. All applications shall first be
reviewed administratively and then, if not eligible for administrative
approval, may be considered via the special review process.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.295 PERMIT PROVISIONS AND PROCESS.
   (A)   General review provisions.
      (1)   Review period. The Administrative Official must approve or deny all
SCF permit applications pursuant to this subchapter within 90 days after the
date an application is filed for an SCF permit application to place a new
utility pole or SCF support structure or within 60 days after the date an
application is filed for collocation of an SCF. If approved, the permit shall
be issued on or before day 90 or 60.
      (2)   Tolling of review period. An applicant and the Administrative
Official can mutually agree in writing to toll the applicable review period at
any time.
      (3)   Final decision. By the end of the applicable review period, the
city must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision. If the final
decision is to deny the application, the final decision shall state the basis
for denial including specific code provisions on which the denial is based.
      (4)   Nondiscrimination. The Administrative Official shall process all
applicants under this subchapter in a nondiscriminatory manner. Aesthetic
requirements shall be reasonable, no more burdensome than for other types of
infrastructure deployments, objective, and published in advance.
   (B)   Administrative review process. An application submitted pursuant to
this subchapter shall be reviewed as follows:
      (1)   Submission of application. Applicant shall submit a complete SCF
application accompanied by any corresponding application fee to the
Administrative Official.
      (2)   Review for completeness.
         (a)   The Administrative Official shall review the application for
completeness following submittal. The Administrative Official must provide a
written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within ten days of receipt of
the SCF permit application clearly and specifically delineating all missing
information. Information specified in a notice of incompleteness shall be
limited to that which is relevant to the approval or denial of an application
under this subchapter.
         (b)   The applicant shall then submit all information specified in the
notice of incompleteness. The applicable review period shall restart at zero on
the date the applicant provides the missing information to complete the
application.
         (c)   For subsequent determinations of incompleteness, the applicable
review period shall be tolled if the Administrative Official provides written
notice within ten days that the supplemental submission did not provide the
information identified in the original notice delineating missing information.
The applicable review period will continue and shall not restart at zero on the
date the applicant provides the missing information identified in a subsequent
incompleteness review.
      (3)   Approval. An application may not be approved via the administrative
review process unless the proposed SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure
meets all applicable location and design requirements of this subchapter. An
application shall be approved via the administrative review process if the
proposed SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure meets all applicable
location and design requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Special review process. An applicant may request a special review of
an application which is not eligible for administrative approval due to not
meeting the applicable location or design requirements of this subchapter and
where compliance with said requirements is not technically feasible,
economically feasible, or poses an undue burden. Special reviews shall be
conducted by the Board of Adjustment in a public meeting. Notice of such
meeting shall comply with SDCL § 1-25-1.1. The review hearing and final
decision shall take place within the applicable 60-or-90 day review period
which shall begin on the date a complete application is submitted to the
Administrative Official.
   (D)   Vote of approval. The Board of Adjustment must approve, by majority
vote of all members, an SCF application upon finding that the proposed
installation has no reasonable alternative which better fits the location and
design requirements of this subchapter. The Board shall deny an application
which does have a reasonable alternative which better fits the location and
design requirements of this subchapter. For an alternative to be reasonable,
the alternative must be technically feasible, economically feasible, and must
not impose an undue burden.
   (E)   After final determination. After the Board of Adjustment has made a
determination on an SCF application, the Administrative Official shall issue an
SCF permit if the application was approved. If denied, the Administrative
Official shall provide a notice of final decision including the grounds upon
which the Board of Adjustment denied the application.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § -25-1.1
§ 155.296 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A permittee shall comply with all applicable law including, but not
limited to, applicable historic preservation ordinances of the city and utility
under grounding requirements.
   (B)   Issuance of any permit pursuant to this subchapter shall not confer
any ownership rights in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   No permittee may construct, operate, place, locate, or maintain any
small cell facility so as to interfere with the use of the public right-of-way
by the city, the general public, or any other persons authorized to use or be
present in or upon the public right-of-way.
   (D)   No permittee or affiliate thereof shall take any action or cause any
action to be done which may impair or damage any ROW or other property located
in, on, or adjacent thereto. Any and all public right-of-way, public property,
or private property that is disturbed or damaged by the permittee or affiliate
thereof during the construction, operation, maintenance, or repair of a small
cell facility shall be promptly repaired by permittee. In the event the
permittee fails to make such repairs within a reasonable time period, the city
may complete or cause to be completed the repair work and bill the actual and
reasonable costs to the permittee. Public property, private property, and
public right-of-way must be restored to as good a condition as before the
disturbance or damage occurred to the reasonable satisfaction of the city.
   (E)   In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency, the owner of a
small cell facility may commence such repair and emergency response work as
required under the circumstances provided it shall notify the city promptly
before such repair or emergency work or the next day thereafter if advance
notice is not practicable.
   (F)   Each permittee shall maintain its facilities in good and safe
condition and in a manner that complies with all applicable federal, state, and
local requirements. The permittee shall be responsible for all electrical or
other utility costs associated with operating each installed SCF.
   (G)   Every small cell facility shall be subject to the right of periodic
inspection by the city after notification to the small cell facility owner.
Each operator must respond to requests for information regarding its system and
plans for the system as the city may from time to time issue including requests
for information regarding its plans for construction, operation, and repair of
the public right-of-way.
   (H)   The city retains the right and privilege, after notifying the small
cell facility owner, to move any small cell facility located within the public
right-of-way as the city may determine to be necessary in response to any
public health or safety emergency.
   (I)   To the extent permitted by state law, the city shall not be liable for
any damage to any small cell facility within the public right-of-way as a
result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public
right-of-way by or on behalf of the city except to the extent such damage is
due to or caused by the city’s negligence or willful misconduct.
   (J)   Restoration shall comply with the following.
      (1)   When a permittee or any person acting on its behalf does any work
in or affecting any public right-of-way, it shall, at its own expense, promptly
remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such right-of-way or property to
the same or better than the condition which existed before the work was
undertaken. As used in this section, PROMPTLY shall mean as soon as required by
the city in the reasonable exercise of the city’s discretion.
      (2)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required hereunder, the permittee shall temporarily restore the
affected right-of-way or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
permittee’s sole expense, and the permittee shall promptly undertake and
complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or other
conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      (3)   A permittee or other person acting on its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flaggers, lights, flares, and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle, or property by reason of such work in or affecting the
right-of-way.
      (4)   Restoration and repair work shall be the responsibility of the
permittee for two years after completion thereof. Such work shall be limited to
further restoration or repairs arising out of deficient completion of the
initial work but shall not include further restoration or repairs arising out
of events not related to the initial completion of the work.
   (K)   The site and small cell facilities and SCF support structures
including all landscaping, fencing and related transmission equipment must be
maintained at all times in a neat and clean manner and in accordance with all
approved plans. This includes, but is not limited to, mowing, weeding, and
trimming.
   (L)   All graffiti on small cell facilities must be removed at the sole
expense of the permit holder after notification by the city to the owner or
operator of the small cell facilities.
   (M)   A certificate of completion shall be required.
      (1)   A certificate of completion will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence that the SCF was installed in substantial compliance with the approved
plans and photo simulations.
      (2)   If it is found that the SCF installation does not substantially
comply with the approved plans and photo simulations, the applicant shall make
any and all such changes required to bring the SCF installation into compliance
within the time frame established by the municipality. Failing to obtain a
certificate of completion within the applicable time frame shall cause a permit
to be revoked.
   (N)   All small cell facilities must comply with all standards and
regulations of the FCC and any state or other federal government agency with
the authority to regulate small cell facilities.
   (O)   Each applicant shall secure and maintain liability insurance policies,
as accepted by the city, insuring the applicant, the city, and the city’s
elected and appointed officers, officials, boards, commissions, agents,
representatives, and employees as additional insureds as their interest may
appear under this section except workers compensation and employer’s liability
which insurance shall be maintained during and for one year after termination
of the permit. Expected coverage shall be the same or substantially similar to
the following:
      (1)   General liability insurance with limits of:
         (a)   Five million dollars per occurrence for bodily injury including
death;
         (b)   Two million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars general aggregate including premises
operations, products, completed operations, explosions, collapse, and
underground hazards.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles in
the amount of $2,000,000 combined single limit for each accident for bodily
injury and property damage; and
      (3)   Worker’s compensation within state statutory limits and employer’s
liability insurance with limits of $1,000,000 each accident, disease, or policy
limit.
   (P)   Upon receipt of notice from its insurer(s), an applicant shall provide
the city with 30 days prior written notice of cancellation of any required
coverage. The applicant shall obtain and furnish to the city replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   (Q)   Upon approval of an SCF application, the permittee shall post a bond,
letter of credit, or other form of surety acceptable to the city.
      (1)   The purpose of such financial assurance shall be to:
         (a)   Provide for the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained
SCFs including those that the city determines need to be removed to protect
public health, safety, or welfare;
         (b)   Restoration of the ROW in connection with removals as provided
for in this subchapter; or
         (c)   Recoup rates or fees that have not been paid by the permittee in
over 12 months, so long as the permittee has received reasonable notice from
the city of any of the non-compliance listed above and an opportunity to cure.
      (2)   The amount of the financial assurance shall be $200 per approved
SCF permit. For permittees with multiple SCFs within the city, the total amount
of financial assurance across all facilities may not exceed $10,000 which
amount may be combined into one surety instrument.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.297 APPLICATIONS, FEES, AND RATES.
   (A)   Application form. The Administrative Official shall designate or
develop an application form for an SCF permit. An applicant may include
requests for new or replacement utility poles or SCF support structures. The
Administrative Official shall allow for applications to be consolidated
pursuant to this subchapter. Each applicant must submit a complete application
for each permit desired.
   (B)   Consolidated applications. Each SCF permit request in a consolidated
application shall be considered individually.
   (C)   Application requirements. All applications for the placement of an
SCF, including modification or construction of a utility pole or SCF support
structure submitted under this subchapter, shall include the following.
      (1)   Photo simulations. A photo simulation of a reasonably
representative installation type that includes to-scale visual simulations that
show unobstructed before-and-after construction daytime views from at least two
angles together with a map that shows the location of the proposed installation
including all equipment shall be submitted. A separate set of such materials
shall be required for any design which is materially different.
      (2)   Noise study. A noise study shall be conducted and submitted for the
SCF when requested by the city, when the proposed site is within 20 feet of a
residential structure, and when the application proposes to utilize equipment
which may produce a persistent or chronic audible tone at such distance.
      (3)   Radio frequency (RF) emissions compliance. Whereas the FCC has
exclusive jurisdiction to establish radio frequency emission safety standards,
the city may only require a written report or statement signed and sealed by a
state licensed engineer or signed by a competent employee of the applicant
which explains compliance with the RF emissions limits established by the FCC.
      (4)   Utility pole or SCF support structure inspection. For collocations
or modifications to existing utility poles or SCF support structures,
applicants shall inspect the structure to which a proposed SCF would be
attached and determine, based on a structural engineering analysis by a state
registered professional engineer, the suitability of the pole or structure for
the applicant’s purposes. The structural engineering analysis shall be
submitted to the Administrative Official and shall certify that the utility
pole or SCF support structure can reasonably support the proposed SCF.
      (5)   New and replacement utility poles and SCF support structures. For
new and replaced utility poles and SCF support structures, applicants shall
submit foundation drawings demonstrating the foundation and new or replacement
utility pole or SCF support structure can reasonably support the SCF.
      (6)   Design justification. A clear and complete written analysis that
explains how the proposed design complies with the applicable design standards
under §
155.298 below. A complete design justification must identify all applicable
design standards under this subchapter and provide a factually detailed reason
why the proposed design either complies or cannot feasibly comply.
      (7)   Site plan. A site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height, and width of the proposed pole, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent
land uses and zoning, distances to nearby objects, structures, property lines,
adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, utility runs, and other
information which may uniquely impact the SCF’s fitness for a particular site.
      (8)   Aesthetic compliance summary. An explanatory statement of aesthetic
considerations and requirements factored into applicant’s design such as
stealthing, finishing, fencing, landscaping, or other elements which may impact
the visual appeal of the SCF.
      (9)   Written Statement. A clear and complete written statement of
purpose which shall minimally include a description of the technical objective
to be achieved, a to-scale map that identifies the proposed site location and
the targeted service area to be benefitted by the proposed project, and full-
color signal propagation maps.
   (D)   Application fees. A permit for SCF including a utility pole or SCF
structure shall be limited to $500 for up to five SCFs and $100 for each
additional SCF on the application.
   (E)   Recurring fees. A wireless provider authorized under this subchapter
to place SCFs upon any related utility pole or SCF support structure in the ROW
shall pay to the city an annual ROW access fee of up to $270 per site per year
to cover all recurring fees including the cost of ongoing monitoring of each
site for compliance with the terms of this subchapter and for the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public and for the attachment of SCFs to
city-owned or controlled utility poles or SCF support structures. Recurring
fees shall be paid annually in accordance with the city’s standard billing or
invoicing procedures as the case may be. The City Council shall establish and
adjust recurring fee rates by resolution.
   (F)   Reasonable fee increases. The application fee and the recurring fees
under this section shall be the sole compensation that the wireless provider
shall be required to pay the city. However, the rates of either the application
fee or the recurring fees may be increased due to extreme circumstances, but in
no case may such fees exceed a reasonable approximation of the city’s actual
and reasonable costs. In addition, such fees must be objectively reasonable and
no higher than charged to similarly-situated competitors in similar situations.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.298 STANDARDS FOR DESIGN, EQUIPMENT, AESTHETICS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Utility pole design. An existing utility pole may be replaced or
extended to accommodate small cell facilities subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Replacement and new utility poles. Replacement utility poles shall
be substantially similar to the width, color, and material of the original or
adjacent utility poles. The city may approve minor deviations up to the minimum
additional height needed to allow for the required clearance from electrical
wires to accommodate an antenna or antennas and may also approve minor
deviations up to 50% of the pole width at its base, not exceeding 30 inches,
when housing equipment is placed within the pole base. Replacement utility
poles shall be located as close as possible to the existing utility pole, and
the replaced utility pole shall be removed. Replacement street lights and poles
shall conform to the adopted streetscape design standard for the zoning
district. New utility poles shall mimic the design of a replacement utility
pole that is most suitable for the proposed location.
      (2)   Replacement and existing utility pole height. The height of any
antennas at the top of a replacement or existing utility pole or any pole
extender shall be no higher than the greater of either 50 feet or the height of
such utility pole or SCF support structure plus 10%.
      (3)   Equipment concealed. Whenever technically feasible, antennas,
cabling, and equipment shall be fully concealed within a pole or otherwise
camouflaged to appear to be an integrated part of a pole.
      (4)   Flush-mounting and pole-top antennas. When technically feasible,
antennas will be flush-mounted on a pole which means either mounted directly to
the pole with no gap other than that which may be required for screws, bolts,
or similar hardware; located at the top of the pole; or side mounted by mounted
arm as needed for required clearance. Canisters attached to the top of a pole
shall not exceed the diameter of the pole unless technically required and then
shall not be more than 50% greater than the diameter of the pole at the point
of attachment or up to 16 inches in diameter, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Antenna design. Each antenna shall be located in an enclosure of no
more than three cubic feet in volume, or in case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
enclosure of no more than three cubic feet.
      (6)   No illumination. Small cell facilities shall not be illuminated
except for small status LEDs installed by the manufacturer. Such LEDs may not
be of a nature which is likely to distract a vehicle or pedestrian due to
brightness, size, blinking, other similar condition, or any combination
thereof.
      (7)   Generators and battery backup. Generators are not permitted for
small cell facilities. A battery backup may be permitted if it is concealed
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (8)   Cabinet location and dimensions. Any equipment cabinet for a small
cell facility shall utilize the smallest cabinet enclosure that is technically
feasible to enclose the equipment. Disconnect switches may be located outside
of the primary equipment cabinet.
      (9)   Painting, coating, or finish material. The exterior of an SCF shall
be painted, coated, or be of a material which draws minimal attention from an
observer. For example, an SCF painted in blaze orange or safety green is highly
likely to draw attention and be distracting, and an SCF finished with polished
aluminum is more likely to be distracting than an SCF finished with matte grey
paint.
   (B)   Ground-mounted equipment. To allow full use of the public rights-of-
way by pedestrians, bicyclists, and other users, all ground-mounted equipment,
excluding antennas, shall to the extent feasible be either underground,
incorporated into street furniture, or concealed in the base of a pole and in
all cases shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), city
construction standards, and any applicable state or federal regulations in
order to provide clear and safe passage within the public right-of-ways. The
location of any ground-mounted equipment shall also comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), city construction standards, and any applicable
state or federal regulations in order to provide clear and safe passage within
the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Building-mounted small cell facilities. Antennas may be mounted to a
building if the antennas do not interrupt the building’s architectural theme.
      (1)   Balanced design. Small cell facilities attached to the side or roof
of buildings shall employ a symmetrical or balanced design for all facade-
mounted antennas. Subsequent deployments on a structure’s exterior will be
required to ensure consistent design, architectural treatment, and symmetry
with any existing small cell facilities on the same side of the structure.
      (2)   Architectural preservation. The interruption of architectural lines
or horizontal or vertical reveals is prohibited unless demonstrated to be
unavoidable.
      (3)   Complementary architecture. New architectural features such as
columns, pilasters, corbels, or other ornamentation that conceals an antenna or
antennas may be used only if the new feature complements the architecture of
the existing building.
      (4)   Mounting brackets. Small cell facilities shall utilize the smallest
mounting brackets necessary in order to provide the smallest offset from the
building.
      (5)   Concealment. Skirts or shrouds shall be utilized on the sides and
bottoms of antennas in order to conceal mounting hardware, create a cleaner
appearance, and minimize the visual impact of the antennas. Exposed conduit
cabling and wiring is prohibited.
      (6)   Matching paint. Small cell facilities and all visible mounting
hardware shall be painted and textured to match adjacent building surfaces.
      (7)   Permission. All installations of a small cell facility shall have
permission from the utility pole or SCF support structure owner to install the
small cell facility on such utility pole or SCF support structure. Nothing in
this section affects the need for an applicant seeking to place a small cell
facility on a utility pole or SCF support structure that is not owned by the
city to obtain from the owner of the utility pole or SCF support structure any
necessary authority to place the small cell facility nor shall any provision of
this section be deemed to affect the rates, terms, and conditions for access to
or placement of a small cell facility on a utility pole or SCF support
structure not owned by the city. This section does not affect any existing
agreement between the Administrative Official and an entity concerning the
placement of small cell facilities on any city-owned utility pole or SCF
support structure.
   (D)   Preferred projecting or marquee sign. Small cell facilities
replicating a projecting or marquee sign must comply with the city’s sign
regulations. All antennas shall be completely screened by the facade of the
sign. All cables and conduit to and from the sign shall be routed from within a
building wall. Cable coverings may be allowed on the exterior of the building
wall in limited circumstances and in situations where the coverings are
minimally visible and concealed to match the adjacent building surfaces.
   (E)   Parking lot lighting. Small cell facilities are permitted as
attachments to or replacements of existing parking lot light fixtures. The
design of the parking lot light fixture shall be in accordance with applicable
municipal code and construction standards except that a pole extender up to
five feet in height may be utilized.
   (F)   Purely aesthetic standards. To the extent that a requirement is purely
aesthetic, an SCF applicant shall not be required to meet a more burdensome
standard than other users of the right-of-way. Other users of the right-of-way
shall meet the purely aesthetic standards of this subchapter for new or
replacement deployments to the extent which is technically and economically
feasible.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.299 RELOCATION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Relocation. All small cell facilities shall be constructed and
maintained so as not to obstruct or hinder the usual travel on or safety of the
public right-of-way or obstruct any legal use of the city’s right-of-way or
uses of the right-of-way by utilities or other providers. If, in the reasonable
determination of the city, a small cell facility needs to be relocated for
reasons of public health, safety, or welfare or ROW maintenance or construction
projects, the small cell facility shall be relocated at the owner’s or
operator’s expense. If the owner or operator of the small cell facility fails
to complete any relocation as required by the city within 90 days of mailing of
written notice, the city may commence and complete the relocation and charge
the owner or operator of the small cell facility for the actual and reasonable
costs of the relocation including any reasonable attorney fees and expenses.
   (B)   Removal of abandoned small cell facilities, utility poles, and other
SCF support structures. Any SCF, utility pole, or other SCF support structure
that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months or is no longer
authorized by a small cell facility permit or other permit shall be considered
abandoned, and the owner of such SCF, utility pole or other SCF support
structure shall so notify the city in writing and remove the same within 90
days of giving notice to the city of such abandonment. Failure to remove an
SCF, utility pole, or other SCF support structure within said 90 days shall be
grounds for the city to remove the SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure
at the owner’s expense including all costs and reasonable attorney fees.
   (C)   Multiple users. If there are two or more users of a single utility
pole or SCF support structure, these provisions shall not become effective
until all users cease using the utility pole or SCF support structure.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 155.300 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   In addition to, and distinct from, the insurance requirements of this
subchapter, each applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold
harmless the city and its officers, officials, boards, commissions, employees,
agents, and representatives from and against any and all damages, losses,
claims, and expenses including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit or
defense arising out of, resulting from, or alleged to arise out of or result
from the acts, omissions, failure to act, or misconduct of the applicant or its
affiliates in the construction, installation, operation, maintenance, repair,
removal, or replacement of the SCF. This shall not require the applicant to
indemnify or hold harmless the city for any losses, claims, damages, and
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence or willful misconduct
of the city.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.301 RESERVED.
§ 155.302 CONFLICT.
   (A)   Conflict. Subject to the limitation set forth in this subchapter,
these small cell facility regulations are in addition to other regulations in
the municipal code. In case of a conflict between regulations, and provided the
regulation is consistent with federal law, the more restrictive provisions
shall apply.
(Ord. 591, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
HOME OCCUPATION
§ 155.320 HOME OCCUPATION.
   A home occupation is a business conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that
the occupation is clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as a
dwelling and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use. For the purposes of minimizing conflicts with
neighboring residentially used property, the City of Flandreau has established
minimum performance standards for home occupations.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.321 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation;
   (B)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinated to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation. Exception: in-home day cares
providing care for less than 12 children in a 24-hour period may utilize more
than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit;
   (C)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding two square-foot in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the principle building; and
   (D)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation, which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or
causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   (E)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the preceding standards, any operation that provides
care for more than 12 children in a 24-hour period shall not be considered a
home occupation.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
BED AND BREAKFAST
§ 155.330 BED AND BREAKFAST (B&BS).
   A bed and breakfast (B&B) is a private single-family residence, which is
used to provide limited meals and temporary accommodations for a charge to the
public. Such establishments should be located where there will be minimal
impact on surrounding residential properties and should comply with the
following conditions:
   (A)   B&Bs shall be limited to residential structures with an overall
minimum of 1,800 square feet of floor. Preference will be given to structures
with historic or other unique qualities.
   (B)   They shall be in compliance with applicable state laws including
registration with the South Dakota Department of Health, maintaining a guest
list, and providing a smoke detector in each sleeping room.
   (C)   Accessory use signs shall be based on similar requirements for a home
occupation permit and shall not be more than one square foot in area.
   (D)   Such uses shall be an incidental use with an owner-occupied principal
dwelling structure provided that not more than four bedrooms in such dwelling
structure shall be used for such purpose.
   (E)   Off-street parking requirements shall be one space per guestroom and
shall be in addition to parking requirements for the principal use. Off-street
parking shall not be located in a required front or side yard and screening
shall be required when adjacent to residentially used property.
   (F)   The length of stay shall not exceed 14 days during any 120 day
consecutive period.
   (G)   Meals shall be limited to breakfast, which is prepared in a common
facility (household kitchen). Meals may be served only to overnight registered
guests and cooking is not permitted in the sleeping rooms.
   (H)   The building shall meet all building codes and zoning requirements. A
site plan showing the location of guest parking spaces and floor plan showing a
location of the sleeping rooms, lavatories, and bathing facilities, and kitchen
shall be submitted with application.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
ADULT USES
§ 155.340 ADULT USES.
   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is recognized that
there are some uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when
several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances thereby having a
deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is
necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to the
blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. These special
regulations are itemized in this section. The primary control or regulation is
for the purpose of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.341 SETBACKS.
   (A)   None of the following uses may be established, operated, or maintained
within 400 feet of a residence, a cemetery, a church, a school meeting all the
requirements of the Compulsory Education Laws of the State of South Dakota, or
a public park.
      (1)   Adult bookstore.
      (2)   Adult motion picture theater.
      (3)   Adult photo studio.
      (4)   Adult entertainment facility.
      (5)   Any use which has as a part of its operation an adult use component
including, but not limited to, a restaurant or eating place, a bar, lounge, or
tavern.
      (6)   Any use intended to provide adult amusement or entertainment.
   (B)   Not more than two of the following uses may be established, operated,
or maintained within 350 feet of each other:
      (1)   Adult bookstore.
      (2)   Adult motion picture theater.
      (3)   Adult photo studio.
      (4)   Adult entertainment facility.
      (5)   Any use which has as a part of its operation an adult use component
including, but not limited to, a restaurant or eating place, a bar, lounge, or
tavern.
      (6)   Any use intended to provide adult amusement or entertainment.
      (7)   A bar.
      (8)   A liquor store.
   (C)   The 350 foot restriction provided for in division (B) above may be
waived and a conditional use permit issued upon proper application if the Board
of Adjustment finds:
      (1)   That the proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest
or injurious to nearby properties and that the spirit and intent of these
regulations will be observed.
      (2)   That the proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a 'skid row' area.
      (3)   That all applicable regulations will be observed.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.342 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating
an adult use in the City of Flandreau without first having obtained a license
from the City Council.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.343 APPLICATION; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for an adult use license shall be made in writing and
shall state the following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and age of the applicant and
the registered agent of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   The location of the adult use business.
      (3)   The exact nature of the adult use to be conducted and of the
proposed place of business and the facilities related thereto.
      (4)   A statement by the applicant that he is familiar with the
provisions of this subchapter and is in compliance with them.
      (5)   A statement of whether the business will be conducted by a manager
and, if so, the name, address, telephone number, and age of each such manager.
      (6)   A statement that no manager or principal operating the business has
been convicted of any offense of prostitution, soliciting for prostitution, or
obscenity or public indecency as defined in the South Dakota Compiled Statutes
within the last two years, and that the applicant has not had any license for
an adult use in any other community revoked within the last two years.
   (B)   Within 15 days after receipt of an application for an adult use
license, the City Council shall investigate the information contained in the
application and shall determine the following:
      (1)   That the premises designated by the applicant as the location of
the business are in full compliance with all applicable ordinances of the city,
including zoning ordinances.
      (2)   That the premises and each manager and employee comply with the
provisions of division (A) above as such provisions apply to them.
      (3)   That the applicant, each manager, and each employee are over 21
years of age.
      (4)   That no manager or principal operator of the business has been
convicted of any offense of prostitution, solicitation for prostitution, or
obscenity or public indecency, as defined in the South Dakota Compiled Statutes
within the last two years, and that the applicant has not had any license for
an adult use revoked within the last two years.
   (C)   If the investigation shows the compliance of the applicant for an
adult use license, the premises upon which the business is to be conducted and
each manager and employee, if applicable, with each of the requirements
established in divisions (A) and (B) of this section, and with the conditions
and regulations set forth in §
155.344 within 15 days after completion of such investigation, the City Council
shall issue a license, and upon payment by the applicant of the license fee
required under this subchapter, the license shall be issued.
   (D)   If the investigation shows that the applicant for an adult use
license, the premises on which the business is to be conducted, or the managers
and employees, if applicable, do not comply with each of the requirements
established in division (A) of this section, and with the conditions and
regulations set forth in §
155.344 within 15 days after completion of such investigation, the City Council
shall notify the applicant in writing that the license has been denied. Such
denial shall be the final administrative action of the city with respect to the
license application, and shall be subject to the immediate appeal by the
applicant to the circuit court.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.344 CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING OPERATION; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   The following regulations shall govern and control the business of
operating an adult use in the City of Flandreau:
      (1)   No person under 21 years of age shall be allowed on the licensed
premises.
      (2)   At all times during the hours of operation there shall be present a
manager or other employee of the licensee who shall be not less than 21 years
of age.
      (3)   Upon a change of any manager conducting business for the licensee,
the licensee shall, within ten regular business days, give the City Council
written notice of such change by actual delivery or by registered or certified
mail. The licensee shall, thereafter, as promptly as practicable, but in any
event within five regular business days, provide the information concerning the
new manager which is required in §
155.343.
      (4)   No adult use shall be located on premises for which a license to
sell alcoholic liquor has been issued, and no alcoholic liquor shall be
permitted on such premises.
      (5)   No adult use shall be permitted unless the premise on which such
business is located complies with the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
      (6)   No licensee or manager under the provisions of this subchapter
shall knowingly permit any person to remain in or upon licensed premises who
commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as defined in the South Dakota
Compiled Statutes.
      (7)   No licensee or manager under the provisions of this subchapter
shall permit any act of prostitution, solicitation for prostitution or
patronization of a prostitute on the licensed premises.
      (8)   No sign shall be posted on the licensed premises which depicts,
displays or refers to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)    In addition to the requirements established in division (A) below,
the following regulations shall govern and control the operation of an adult
bookstore which offers any films or videotapes for viewing on premises by use
of motion picture devices or other such operations means:
      (1)   All viewing areas, which shall be defined as the area where a
patron or customer would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film or
viewing device, shall be visible from a continuous main aisle or public room
and shall not be obscured by any curtain, door, wall, or other enclosure.
      (2)   There shall be no aperture whatsoever in any wall or partition
between viewing areas.
      (3)   Each viewing area shall be lit at a minimum level of ten foot
candles in all parts thereof.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements established in division (A) of this
section, the following regulations shall govern and control the operation of an
adult entertainment facility:
      (1)   All performers shall be at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   All performances, exhibitions or displays shall take place on a
platform raised at least two feet from the level of the floor and located at
least ten feet from any patron.
      (3)   No performer shall fondle or caress any patron or other performer
and no patron shall fondle or caress any performer.
      (4)   No patron shall be permitted to pay or give any gratuity to any
performer, and no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to engage in the business
of operating an adult use within the city to fail to comply with the conditions
and regulations set forth in §
155.343 and this section as they are applicable to the licensed business, or to
suffer or permit noncompliance with such conditions and regulations on or
within the licensed premises. In this regard, any act or omission of an
employee shall be deemed the act or omission of the owner if such act or
omission occurred either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the
owner or as a result of the owner's negligent failure to supervise the
employee's conduct. All conduct occurring while on the premises shall be
presumed to be the responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.345 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Nothing in the terms of this subchapter shall preclude the right of
the City Council to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows:
      (1)   The City Council may temporarily suspend any license issued under
the terms of this subchapter when he has reason to believe that the continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community or create an imminent danger of violation of
applicable law. In such case, he may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such determination, and without notice or hearing, order
the licensed premises closed for not more than seven days; provided, that the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing during
the seven-day period, and further provided that if such licensee shall also be
engaged in the conduct of other business on the licensed premises, such order
shall not be applicable to such other businesses.
      (2)   The City Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
terms of this subchapter upon ten days' notice to the licensee of the time and
place of a public hearing, and a public hearing at which the licensee may
appear and present evidence, if the City Council determines upon such hearing
that the licensee has failed or refused to comply with the terms of this
subchapter, has failed or refused to comply with other law applicable to the
business of operating an adult use, has knowingly permitted the failure of any
manager or employee on the premises to comply with the terms of this subchapter
or with other law applicable to the business of operating an adult use, has
knowingly furnished false or misleading information on any application required
for any license under this section or has suffered or caused another to furnish
or withhold such information on his behalf, or has been convicted by a court of
competent jurisdiction of a violation of any provision of this section.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
SHOP-STYLE DWELLING STANDARDS
§ 155.350 SHOP-STYLE DWELLING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Shop-style dwellings may only be permitted provided the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The construction of shop-style dwellings shall meet the
requirements of §
155.240;
      (2)   Shop-style dwellings shall have a gross floor area of not less than
50% of the structure dedicated to dwelling purposes;
      (3)   Gross area is the sum of the gross horizontal area of all floors of
a building measured from the exterior walls, but not including the basement or
attic areas not intended for living space;
      (4)   The owner of the building must actively reside in the living area
of the structure a minimum of six months a year;
      (5)   The owner of the building may not lease any or all portion of the
building to any other person;
      (6)   The storage/garage area must be completely within the enclosed
building;
      (7)   There must be separate outside entrances for the living area and
storage/garage area;
      (8)   The separation wall between the storage/garage and living area
shall be 5/8-inch fire-code drywall;
      (9)   The living area must include a full kitchen, living area, full
bathroom, at least one bedroom and laundry facilities;
      (10)   Shop-style dwellings do not include structures with corrugated
steel siding;
      (11)   Shop-style dwellings shall include more than one roofline; and
      (12)   Shop-style dwellings are required to obtain written consent of
100% of property owners owning property immediately adjacent (excluding streets
and alleys) to the proposed building site and of 50% of the property owners
within 250 feet (excluding streets and alleys) of said proposed shop-style
dwelling property line.
      (13)   Figures 155.350.1 and 155.350.2 (below) includes examples of
dwellings which may meet the definition of "Shop-style dwellings" and the
conditions of this section.[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/IMAGES/0-0-0-1650.gif]
      (14)   Figures 155.350.3 and 155.350.4 (below) includes examples of
dwellings that either do not meet the definition of “Shop-style dwellings” or
they do not meet all of the requirements of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4aba106943963dd70c21fdece1ed21a3bd236036/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1652.gif](Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
EXTENDED HOME OCCUPATION
§ 155.360 EXTENDED HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   There are significant differences between home occupations conducted
in residential dwellings on small tracts and those which may be operated in an
accessory structure on the same property as a residential dwelling. The nature
of resources available for use, the benefits and disadvantages created by home
occupations, and the problems generated necessitate a distinction between home
occupations and extended home occupations. Each concept is based on
supplementing income, but due to density of development and different
requirements on the placement of accessory structures extended home occupations
typically require unique considerations. For the aforesaid reasons, certain
types of uses may be permitted as extended home occupations in certain
districts provided certain considerations are made.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, provided all requirements are met,
the following shall be considered extended home occupations:
         (a)   Personal services;
         (b)   Finance, insurance, and real estate services;
         (c)   Sale of products grown or produced by the residents of the
property; and
         (d)   Light manufacturing/repair/other services provided all
performance standards are met or exceeded.
      (2)   Performance standards.
         (a)   An extended home occupation may not be changed to another
extended home occupation except by the issuance of a separate conditional use
permit.
         (b)   Individuals engaged in such occupation shall consist of family
members residing on the premises and up to one non-family employee.
         (c)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
buildings or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home
occupation other than one on-premise sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in
area, non illuminated.
         (d)   The only retail sales allowed shall consist of the sale of
commodities/products prepared on the premises in connection with such
occupation or activity.
         (e)   There shall be no outdoor storage of materials, vehicles, etc.
related to the extended home occupation unless the aforementioned storage is
placed behind a fence approved by the Board of Adjustment.
         (f)   Extended home occupations shall be conducted in an accessory
building.
         (g)   No traffic shall be generated by such extended home occupation
in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a residential
neighborhood, and any need of parking generated by the conduct of such extended
home occupation shall be provided off the street and other than in a required
front yard.
         (h)   No equipment or process shall be used in such extended home
occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of
electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates
visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the
premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
REFUSE
§ 155.370 REFUSE.
   In all zoning districts, refuse (rubbish, garbage, trash, waste or debris)
shall be kept within a completely enclosed building or specially designed
closed container made for such purpose. Owners of vacant lots shall be
responsible for keeping their property free of trash.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
§ 155.380 CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis dispensaries.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The city shall allow up to three cannabis dispensaries provided the
time, place, and manner of said dispensaries comply with this chapter.
   (B)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public or private school existing before the date of the cannabis
dispensary application;
      (2)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public park and recreation area existing before the date of the cannabis
dispensary application;
      (3)   Exemption from separation requirements. Any separation distance
requirement, other than the state requirement from schools (1,000 feet), may be
waived, provided:
         (a)   The applicant provides documentation waiving the setback
requirement from the title holder of the land benefitting from the separation.
      (4)   Prescribed separation/setback distances from certain existing uses
are to be measured from the lot line of the property where the dispensary is
proposed.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary dispensaries are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary in a building which
contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and residential
uses.
   (D)   Controlled access. No cannabis establishment shall share premises with
or permit access directly from another medical cannabis establishment, business
that sells alcohol or tobacco, or, if allowed by law, other cannabis
establishment.
   (E)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
   (F)   Documentation of state licensure.
      (1)   No cannabis dispensary shall acquire, possess, store, deliver
transfer, transport, supply or dispense cannabis, cannabis products,
paraphernalia without providing documentation of licensure from the State of
South Dakota.
   (G)   The Administrative Official is authorized to issue permits (building/
use) for cannabis dispensaries subject to following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the
Administrative Official to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements.
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the 2021 Edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.381 CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY/ CANNABIS CULTIVATION
FACILITY.
   (A)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis product manufacturing facility and/or cannabis
cultivation facility shall be located not less than 1,000 feet from a public or
private school existing before the date of the cannabis dispensary application.
      (2)   A cannabis product manufacturing facility and/or cannabis
cultivation facility shall be located not less than 1,000 feet from a public
park and recreation area existing before the date of the cannabis dispensary
application.
      (3)   A cannabis product manufacturing facility and/or cannabis
cultivation facility shall be located not less than 500 feet from a residential
use existing before the date of the cannabis dispensary application.
      (4)   Exemption from separation requirements. Any separation distance
requirement, other than the state requirement from schools (1,000 feet), may be
waived, provided:
         (a)   The applicant provides documentation waiving the setback
requirement from the title holder of the land benefiting from the separation.
   (B)   Prescribed separation/setback distances from certain existing uses are
to be measured from the lot line of the property where the dispensary is
proposed.
   (C)   Controlled access. No product manufacturing facility and/or cannabis
cultivation facility shall share premises with or permit access directly from
another medical cannabis establishment, business that sells alcohol or tobacco,
or, if allowed by law, other cannabis establishment.
   (D)   Documentation of state licensure.
      (1)   No cannabis product manufacturing facility and/or cannabis
cultivation facility shall acquire, possess, store, deliver, transfer,
transport, supply or dispense cannabis, or cannabis products, without providing
documentation of licensure from the State of South Dakota.
   (E)   Minimum application information to include:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing any information normally
required fora building permit;
      (2)   Ingress and egress plan;
      (3)   Parking plan;
      (4)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
      (5)   Screening/security fencing plan;
      (6)   Refuse plan;
      (7)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements;
      (8)   Documentation of state licensure; and
      (9)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the Board of
Adjustment to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the 2021 Edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Violations shall be treated in the manner specified below.
   (A)   Any person who starts work for which a permit (building, conditional
use, special permitted, variance, rezoning) is required by this chapter without
first securing such permit and paying the prescribed fee shall be charged
according to the provisions hereafter. All fees assessed thereunder shall be
rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
   (B)   Upon finding such violation, the city shall notify the owner of
property involved verbally or by sending a written notification of the
requirement that a permit be obtained to the owner of the property involved by
certified mail with return receipt requested. If application for said permit is
filed within seven working days from the verbal notification or date of receipt
of the letter, an administrative fee shall be assessed in the amount of 100% of
the fee for the building permit plus the cost of the postage for mailing the
aforementioned notice. In no case shall this administrative fee be less than $5
including the postage costs.
   (C)   If application for said permit is filed after the deadline of seven
working days following the verbal notice or receipt of the notification of the
requirement therefor, there shall be imposed an administrative fee in the
amount of two times the building permit fee. The payment of the administrative
fee shall not relieve such person from the provisions of division (E) below.
   (D)   Any administrative fee or penalty imposed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be in addition to any other fees or charges required herein.
   (E)   It is declared unlawful for any person to violate any of the terms and
provisions of these regulations or other official control adopted by the City
Council pursuant thereto. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter may be subject to a civil or criminal penalty. The penalty for
violation of this chapter shall be $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30
days or both, and in addition, the violator shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each and every day that such violation continues after
notification may constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   In the event any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of these regulations, the appropriate
city authorities, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate actions or proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violation or
threatened violation.
   (G)   Any taxpayer of the city may institute mandamus proceedings in Circuit
Court to compel specific performance by the proper official or officials of any
duty required by these regulations.
(Ord. passed - - 2006; Ord. 622, passed 10-7-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cites Code Section
SDCL Cites     Code Section
1-25-1.1       155.295
9-1-1          10.02;
               10.04
9-6-39         155.026
9-13-13        10.04
9-19-3         10.99
Chapter 9-45   151.07
Chapter 9-46   151.07
9-46-2.1       151.35
Title 11       52.30
               155.003;
Chapter 11-4   155.155;
               155.183;
               155.210
Chapter 11-6   155.003
11-6-2         155.001
11-6-26.1      154.03
11-6-39        155.026
21-10-3        92.15
22-6-2(2)      10.99
32-20A-15      73.20
               113.15-
34-20G         113.17;
               113.22
34-20G-1       113.02
35-1-1         114.01
Chapter 36-25  52.30
Chapter 38-24B 152.36
43-15A         155.001
Title 58       155.026
               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code    2023 Code
1.2.1         30.01
1.2.2         30.03
1.2.3         30.04
1.2.4         30.02
1.3.1         31.01
1.3.2         31.02
1.3.3         31.03
1.3.4         31.03
1.3.5         31.04
1.3.6         31.04
2.1.1         11.01
2.3.1         11.03
3.1.1         32.01
3.1.2         32.04
3.1.3         32.05
3.1.4         32.06
3.1.5         32.08
3.1.6         32.03
3.1.7         32.07
3.1.8         32.02
3.2.1         32.20
3.2.2         32.21
3.2.3         32.22
3.2.4         32.23
3.2.5         32.24
4.1.1         91.01
4.1.2         91.02
4.1.3         91.03
4.1.4         91.04
4.1.5         91.05
4.1.6         91.06
4.2.1         91.20
4.2.2         91.21
4.2.3         91.22
4.2.4         91.23
4.2.5.1       91.24
4.2.5.2       91.24
4.2.5.3       91.26
4.2.6         91.25
4.2.6.1       91.99
Chapter 5.1   92.15
Chapter 5.2   92.16
5.2.1         92.99
5.3.1         92.17
5.3.2         92.18
Chapter 5.4   92.19
itle 6        90.001
6.1           90.002
6.2.1         90.003
6.2.2         90.020
6.2.3         90.021
6.2.4         90.022
6.2.5         90.024
6.2.6         90.023
6.2.7         90.023
6.2.8         90.025
6.2.9         90.025
6.2.10        90.026
6.3.1         90.040
6.3.2         90.041
6.3.3         90.042
6.3.4         90.043
6.4.1         90.055
6.4.2         90.056
6.4.3         90.057
6.4.4         90.058
6.4.5         90.059
6.4.6         90.060
6.4.7         90.061
6.4.8         90.061
6.4.9         90.062
6.4.10        90.062
6.4.11        90.058
6.5           90.004
6.6.1         90.075
6.6.2         90.076
6.6.3         90.077
6.7.1         90.005
6.7.2         90.999
7.1.4         130.01
7.1.5         130.02
7.2.1         130.07
7.2.3         130.06
7.2.4         130.04
7.2.5         130.08
7.2.6         130.05
7.2.7         130.09
7.3.1         130.50
7.3.2         130.51
7.3.3         130.52
7.3.4         130.99
7.4.1         130.35
7.4.2         130.36
7.4.3         130.37
7.4.4         130.36
7.4.5         130.38
7.5.1         130.20
7.5.2         130.21
7.5.3         130.22
7.5.4         130.23
7.5.5         130.22
8.1.1         151.01
8.1.2         151.02
8.1.3         151.03
Chapter 8.2   151.04
8.3.1         151.35
8.3.2         151.36
8.3.3         151.41
8.3.4         151.37
8.3.5         151.38
8.3.6         151.39
8.3.7         151.40
8.3.8.1       112.01
8.3.8.2       112.02
8.3.8.3       112.03
8.3.8.4       112.04
8.3.8.5       112.06
8.3.8.6       112.07
8.3.8.7       112.05
8.3.8.8       112.07
8.4.1         151.43
8.5.1         151.05
8.5.2         151.06
8.5.3         151.07
8.5.4         151.08
8.6.1         151.20
8.6.2         151.21
8.6.3         151.22
8.6.4         151.23
8.6.5         151.24
8.6.6         151.42
8.7.1         150.01
8.7.2         150.02
8.7.3         150.03
8.7.4         150.04
8.7.5         150.05
8.7.6         150.06
8.8.1         151.55
8.8.2         151.56
8.8.3         151.57
8.8.4         151.58
8.8.5         151.58
8.8.6         151.59
8.8.7         151.60
8.8.8         151.61
9.1.1         33.01
9.1.2         33.04
9.1.3         33.05
9.1.4         33.06
9.1.5         33.08
9.1.6         33.03
9.1.7         33.07
9.1.8         33.02
9.1.9         33.09
9.1.10        33.09
9.1.11        33.02
9.1.12        33.10
9.1.13        33.11
9.2.1         33.25
9.2.2         33.26
9.2.3         33.27
9.3.1         33.40
9.3.2         33.41
9.3.3         33.42
9.4.1         33.55
9.4.2         33.56
9.4.3         33.57
Chapter 10.01 93.01
10.2.1        93.02
10.2.2        93.03
10.2.3        93.04
10.2.4        93.05
11.0102       52.01
11.0103       52.07
11.0104       52.08
11.0106       52.05
11.0107       52.06
11.0108       52.04
11.0109       52.10
11.0110       52.10
11.0111       52.03
11.0112       52.09
11.0113       52.02
11.0114       52.10
11.0115       52.10
11.0201       52.25
11.0202       52.26
11.0203       52.30
11.0204       52.27
11.0205       52.29
11.0206       52.28
11.0207       52.99
11.0208       52.31
11.0301       52.46
11.0302       52.47
11.0303       52.48
11.0304       52.49
11.0305       52.50
11.0306       52.45
11.0307       52.51
11.0308       52.52
11.0309       52.53
11.0310       52.49
11.0311       52.55
11.0312       52.54
11.0313       52.55
11.0314       52.56
11.0315       52.56
11.0316       52.56
11.0401       50.01
11.0402       50.03
11.0403       50.02
11.0501       51.01
11.0502       51.02
11.0503       51.05
11.0504       51.06
11.0505       51.06
11.0506       51.07
11.0507       51.08
11.0508       51.09
11.0509       51.08
11.0510       51.08
11.0511       51.04
11.0512       51.04
11.0513       51.04
11.0514       51.03
11.0515       51.10
11.0516       51.11
Chapter 13.1  70.01
13.2.1        70.02
13.2.2        70.03
13.2.3        70.10
13.2.4        70.04
13.2.5        70.05
13.2.6        70.02
13.2.7        70.06
13.2.8        70.08
13.2.9        70.09
13.3.1        71.01
13.3.2        71.03
13.3.3        Chapter 75, Schedule I
13.3.4        71.02
13.3.5        71.15
13.3.6        71.16
13.3.7        71.17
13.3.8        71.18
13.3.9        71.35
13.3.10       71.36
13.3.11       71.37
13.3.12       71.38
13.3.13       71.39
13.3.14       71.19
13.3.15       70.07
13.3.16       71.20
13.3.17       71.21
13.4.1        74.01
13.4.2        74.04
13.4.3        74.03
13.4.4        74.02
13.5.1        73.01
13.5.2        73.04
13.5.3        73.02
13.5.4        73.05
13.5.5        73.03
13.5.6        73.06
13.5.7        73.07
13.6.1        72.01
13.6.2        72.03
13.6.3        Chapter 76, Schedule I
13.6.4        72.04
13.6.5        72.02
13.6.6        72.07
13.6.7        72.08
13.6.8        72.06
13.6.9        72.05
13.6.10       72.09
13.6.11       72.10
13.7.1        73.20
13.7.2        73.22
13.7.3        73.23
13.7.4        73.23
13.7.5        73.23
13.7.6        73.23
13.7.7        73.21
13.7.8        73.24
13.7.9        73.25
13.7.10       73.26
13.7.11       73.26
14.0404       50.04
14.0405       50.04
14.0406       50.05
14.0407       50.06
Chapter 14.1  152.01
Chapter 14.2  152.02
14.3.1        152.15
14.3.2        152.16
14.3.3        152.17
14.3.4        152.17
14.3.5        152.17
14.3.6        152.17
14.3.7        152.18
14.3.8        152.19
14.3.9        152.20
14.3.10       152.21
14.3.11       152.22
14.3.12       152.99
14.3.13       152.16
14.4.1        152.35
14.4.2        152.36
14.4.3        152.37
14.4.4        152.38
14.4.5        152.39
14.4.6        152.40
14.4.7        152.41
14.4.8        152.42
Chapter 15.1  153.01
15.2.1        153.02
15.2.2        153.02
15.2.3        153.04
15.2.4        153.05
15.2.5        153.04
15.2.6        153.06
Chapter 15.3  153.07
Chapter 15.4  153.03
15.5.1        153.20
15.5.2.1      153.21
15.5.2.2      153.21
15.5.2.3      153.21
15.5.2.4      153.22
15.5.2.5      153.23
15.5.2.6      153.24
15.5.3        153.25
15.6.1        153.40
15.6.2        153.41
15.6.3        153.41
15.6.7        153.42
15.6.4        153.43
15.6.5        153.44
15.6.6        153.45
16.1.1        92.01
16.1.2        92.02
16.1.3        92.03
16.1.4        92.04
Chapter 18.1  110.01
Chapter 18.2  110.02
Chapter 18.3  110.03
Chapter 18.4  110.04
Chapter 18.5  110.05
Chapter 19.1  111.01
Chapter 19.2  111.02
Chapter 19.3  111.03
              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
519          - -         31.01
523          - -         32.08
529          - -         33.57
531          - -         Chapter 76, Schedule I
                         152.01;
538          - -         152.18;
                         152.19
540          - -         30.03
543          - -         93.03
545          - -         91.01;
                         91.04
546          - -         90.004
548          - -         71.01;
                         71.02
                         32.01-
551          - -         32.06;
                         32.21;
                         32.22
554          - -         112.01-
                         112.07
562          - -         151.35
565          - -         151.40
571          - -         151.36
574          - -         Chapter 75, Schedule I
579          - -         93.01;
                         93.03
                         113.01-
                         113.04;
606          - -         113.15-
                         113.24;
                         113.99
403          9-27-1993   52.31
411          5-16-1994   51.04
                         50.01-
457          9-8-1998    50.03;
                         50.05;
                         50.06
                         154.01-
                         154.07;
                         154.20-
                         154.23;
-            - - 2000    154.35-
                         154.46;
                         154.60-
                         154.69;
                         154.99
482          11-6-2000   50.07
484          12-18-2000  52.08
495          11-19-2001  51.10
                         155.001-
                         155.006;
                         155.020-
                         155.029;
                         155.040-
                         155.042;
                         155.044;
                         155.045;
                         155.055;
                         155.056;
                         155.058-
                         155.060;
                         155.070;
                         155.071;
                         155.073-
                         155.075;
                         155.085;
                         155.086;
                         155.088-
-            - - 2006    155.092;
                         155.105;
                         155.106;
                         155.108-
                         155.110;
                         155.120-
                         155.124;
                         155.135-
                         155.140;
                         155.175-
                         155.184;
                         155.195;
                         155.196;
                         155.210-
                         215;
                         155.230-
                         155.244;
                         155.260;
                         155.275-
                         155.178;
                         155.999
Res. 2013-11 12-16-2013  34.01;
                         34.02
580          9-5-2017    53.01;
                         53.02
                         153.21-
586          1-15-2018   153.25;
                         153.40-
                         153.45
                         155.290;
591          10-21-2019  155.292-
                         155.300;
                         155.302
594          2-3-2020    130.09,
                         130.99
595          3-2-2020    155.108
597          5-18-2020   10.99
598          5-18-2020   92.15-
                         92.18
601          12-7-2020   130.03
605          9-20-2021   72.01;
                         72.03
605          9-20-2021   74.04
Res. 2021-11 10-4-2021   52.08
Res. 2021-12 10-4-2021   52.32
607          11-15-2021  11.02
Res. 2022-02 1-17-2022   51.04
                         155.001;
609          5-16-2022   155.108;
                         155.122;
                         155.245
610          5-16-2022   92.19;
                         92.99
613          6-20-2023   150.07
614          6-20-2023   70.01;
                         72.10
                         114.01,
617          1-2-2024    114.10-
                         114.17
618          1-16-2024   53.01
Res. 2024-02 1-16-2024   34.02
                         155.001-
                         155.006;
                         155.020-
                         155.029;
                         155.040-
                         155.045;
                         155.055-
                         155.060;
                         155.070-
                         155.075;
                         155.085-
                         155.093;
                         155.105-
                         155.110;
                         155.120-
                         155.124;
                         155.135-
                         155.140;
                         155.155-
                         155.163;
                         155.175-
                         155.184;
                         155.195;
                         155.196;
622          10-7-2024   155.210-
                         155.216;
                         155.220-
                         155.225;
                         155.230-
                         155.245;
                         155.260-
                         155.267;
                         155.275-
                         155.278;
                         155.290;
                         155.292-
                         155.300;
                         155.302;
                         155.320;
                         155.321;
                         155.330;
                         155.340-
                         155.345;
                         155.350;
                         155.360;
                         155.370;
                         155.380;
                         155.381;
                         155.999
623          10-21-2024  90.080-
                         90.086
624          11-4-2024   52.08
                        
 
